Title: The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-22
Description: The Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (“the 2014 Act”) makes provision and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “scheme regulations” as defined in chapter 2 of the 2014 Act), about the establishment of public service pension schemes. There are two Health and Social Care Pension Schemes: a scheme divided into two sections known as the 1995 Section, established by the Health and Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995(S.R. 1995 No. 95) (“the 1995 Regulations”), and the 2008 Section, established by the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (S.R. 2008 No. 256) (“the 2008 Regulations) (together “the legacy scheme”), and the scheme established by the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (S.R. 2015 No. 120) (“the 2015 scheme”). The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland)  (S.R. No. 122) (“the 2015 Transitional Regulations”) provided for the treatment and payment of legacy scheme benefits to certain members of the 2015 scheme. Transitional protection of this kind provided when reformed public service pensions were introduced in 2015 was found to discriminate against public service pension scheme members on the basis of age.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/132

## The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Health And Personal Social Services   Public Service Pensions

  Made   7th September 2023

  Coming into operation  - -   1st October 2023

      The Department of Health makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(e), 2(1) and 3(1), (2)(b) and
(c) of and paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Public Service Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland) 2014 (“ the 2014 Act ”)  and sections 5(1), (5) and 6(a),
6(1), 7(3), 8, 10(1), 11(1) and (5), 12(1) and (3), 18(1) to (3), (5), (6) and
(8), 19(1), (4) and (5), 20(1), (2), (4) and (5)(a) and (b), 21 (1)(a), (b)
and (e), and (2) to (5), 22(1), (2) (c), (d), (e), (i) and (j) and (6), 23(1),
24(1),25 (1) and (4), 26(1) and (2)(a) to (c), 29(1), (7) and (8), 31(2) and
(3) and 37(2) of the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022
(“PSPJOA 2022”).       In accordance with section 3(5) of the 2014 Act, these
Regulations are made with the consent of the Department of Finance.       In
accordance with section 21(1) of the 2014 Act , the Department of Health has
consulted such persons or the representatives of such persons as appear to the
Department likely to be affected by these Regulations.           In accordance
with section 27(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the powers conferred by sections 18 to 26
of that Act are exercised in accordance with Department of Finance directions
.

### General provisions


#### Citation and commencement


1

These Regulations may be cited as the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes
(Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and come into
operation on 1st October 2023.

#### Interpretation


2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022 ;           “ 2004 Act ” means the Finance Act 2004 ;           “ the
1995 Regulations ” means The Health and Personal Social Service
(Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 ;           “ the 1995
Section ” means the section of the legacy scheme set out in the 1995
Regulations;           “ the 2008 Regulations ” means The Health and Social
Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008  ;           “ the
2008 Section ” means the section of the legacy scheme set out in the 2008
Regulations;           “ the 2015 Regulations ” means The Health and Social
Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  ;           “ 2015
scheme ” means The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern
Ireland) set out in the 2015 Regulations;           “ 2015 scheme
contributions ” means contributions under regulation 37  of the 2015
Regulations (Members’ contributions: supplementary: medical practitioners and
non-GP providers);           “ the 2015 Transitional Regulations ” means The
Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential
Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  ;           “ the 2023
Directions ” means the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers,
Compensation and Information) Directions (Northern Ireland) 2023;           “
active or deferred remedy member ” means a member who—         on 30th
September 2023 was an active member or deferred member in respect of
remediable service in the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme, and           is
not a pensioner remedy member;                 “ deferred choice member ”
means a member with remediable service who is not an immediate choice member
or a deceased member;           “ deferred choice pension ” means a pension
the rate of which-         is not determined (by any extent) by reference to
the member’s remediable service; and           is not affected by the coming
into force of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022;                 “ designated person
” has the meaning given in regulation 7(2);           “ end of the deferred
choice election period ” means—         the end of the period of three months
beginning with the day on which a remediable service statement is provided to
the deferred choice member or, as the case may be, the designated person in
accordance with regulation 6, or           such earlier or later time as
specified in the remediable service statement as the scheme manager considers
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case,         which also meets the
requirements of regulation 12(8);           “ end of the immediate choice
election period ” means—         the end of the period of one year beginning
with the day on which a remediable service statement is provided to the
immediate choice member or, as the case may be, the designated person in
accordance with regulation 6, or           such—         later time as
specified in the remediable service statement as the scheme manager considers
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case; or           earlier time as
agreed by the scheme manager with the immediate choice member or designated
person;                       “ immediate choice member ” means a member with
remediable service who, immediately before 1 October 2023 was deceased or
entitled to the present payment of a pension which—         is a pension under
the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme, and           is not a deferred choice
pension;                 “ legacy scheme ” means The Health and Social Care
Pension Scheme for Northern Ireland set out in the 1995 Regulations and the
2008 Regulations;           “ legacy scheme contributions ” means
contributions under paragraph 10  of Schedule 2 to the 1995 Regulations
(practitioners and non-GP providers: contributions to the 1995 Section) or
regulation 161 of the 2008 Regulations (Members’ contribution rate) (whichever
is relevant);           “ lump sum benefit ” means any benefit payable under
the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme by way of a lump sum;           “ medical
practitioner ” has the same meaning as in regulation 150 of the 2015
Regulations ;           “ non-GP provider ” has the same meaning as in
Schedule 13 to the 2015 Regulations;           “ pension benefit ” means any
benefit payable under the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme otherwise than by a
lump sum;           “ pensioner remedy member ” means a member who on 30th
September 2023 was entitled to a retirement pension in respect of—
remediable service in the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme, or
pensionable service in the legacy scheme, where—         the member became
entitled to the retirement pension on or after 1st April 2015, and
on 30th September 2023, the member was an active or deferred member in respect
of remediable service in the 2015 scheme;                       “ relevant
scheme year ” means any of the seven scheme years beginning with 1st April
2015 to 31st March 2016 (both dates inclusive) and ending with 1st April 2021
to 31st March 2022 (both dates inclusive);           “ remedy member ” means a
member who has pensionable service under the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme
that is remediable service ;           “ scheme administrator ” means the
regional Business Services Organisation (RBSO)  ;           “ scheme manager ”
means the Department or, where the Department has made arrangements for any of
the functions and responsibilities as scheme manager under the 2015
Regulations to be performed on the Department’s behalf by another person
pursuant to regulation 3(2) of those Regulations, that other person.

2.2

In these Regulations, “ in writing ” includes by electronic communication
where such communication is approved by the scheme manager from time to time
and “ electronic communication ” has the same meaning as in section 4(1) of
the Electronic Communications Act (Northern Ireland) 2001 .

2.3

For the purposes of these Regulations, a reference in PSPJOA 2022 to section
2(1) of that Act coming into force is to be understood as a reference to that
section coming into force in relation to members of the legacy scheme and the
2015 scheme.

2.4

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.4.a

is defined in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
PSPJOA 2022; and

2.4.b

is not defined differently in these Regulations,

has the meaning given in, or for the purposes of, that provision.

2.5

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  applies to these Regulations
as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Remediable service


#### Pension contributions of medical practitioners and non-GP providers: deferred choice members (immediate correction)


3

3.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant member (“ M ”) who has
remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under
that scheme by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (“M’s remediable
service”) in the circumstances described in paragraph (2).

3.2

The circumstances are that—

3.2.a

the paid contributions amount in relation to M exceeds

3.2.b

the adjusted contributions amount in relation to M.

3.3

In these circumstances, the scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably
practicable after 1 st  October 2023, pay an amount of compensation equal to
the difference to the appropriate person in accordance with paragraph (4).

3.4

The amount of compensation paid to the appropriate person must be reduced by
tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with paragraphs (5) to (8) and, if
relevant, (11) and (12) of direction 4 of the 2023 Directions (powers to
reduce or waive liabilities).

3.5

M may waive M’s right to the compensation payment otherwise due under this
regulation in accordance with the 2023 Directions, but, if M or, as the case
may be, the designated person does not make an election under regulation 12
(election for 2015 scheme benefits:, deferred choice members and deceased
members) before the end of the deferred choice election period—

3.5.a

that waiver is void; and

3.5.b

on the payment of M’s 1995 Section or 2008 Section benefits in respect of M’s
remediable service, compensation again becomes payable under this regulation.

3.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5), a waiver must be given to the scheme
manager by notice in writing and in such form as the scheme manager
determines.

3.7

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M of M’s right to claim an
amount of compensation under this regulation or to waive M’s right to
compensation in accordance with paragraph (5).

3.8

The notice must be sent to M before 1st October 2024 or such later time as the
scheme manager considers reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.

3.9

In this regulation—

      “ adjusted contributions amount ” means the aggregate of the
contributions M would have paid in respect of M’s remediable service in the
relevant scheme years if M had been required to pay legacy scheme
contributions;           “ appropriate person ” means—         M, or
if M is deceased, M’s personal representatives;                 “ paid
contributions amount ” means the aggregate of the pension contributions paid
by M under regulation 37 of the 2015 Regulations in the relevant scheme years
in respect of M’s remediable service;           “ relevant member ” means a
member who is—         a deferred choice member, and           a medical
practitioner or non-GP provider who paid contributions in respect of their
certified or final pensionable earnings uprated according to the formula in
paragraph (3)(a) of regulation 37 of the 2015 Regulations in respect of any
scheme year falling within the period of their remediable service.

3.10

Where this regulation applies, section 16 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension
contributions: active and deferred members (immediate correction)) does not
apply.

#### Pension contributions of medical practitioners and non-GP providers: immediate choice members and deceased members


4

4.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant member (“ M ”) who has
remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under
that scheme whether or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022
(Remediable service treated as pensionable under Chapter 1 legacy schemes
(“M’s remediable service”) in the circumstances described in paragraph (2)(a)
or (b).

4.2

The circumstances are that, at the operative time—

4.2.a

the paid contributions amount in relation to M exceeds the adjusted
contributions amount in relation to M; or

4.2.b

the paid contributions amount in relation to M is less than the adjusted
contributions amount in relation to M.

4.3

In the circumstances described in paragraph (2)(a), the scheme manager must
pay an amount of compensation equal to the difference to the appropriate
person adjusted in accordance with paragraph (4).

4.4

The amount of compensation paid to the appropriate person must be reduced by
tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with paragraphs (5) to (8) and, if
relevant, (11) and (12) of direction 4 of the 2023 Directions (powers to
reduce or waive liabilities).

4.5

In the circumstances described in paragraph (2)(b), the appropriate person
must pay contributions equal to the difference to the scheme adjusted in
accordance with paragraph (6).

4.6

The contributions owed to the scheme by the appropriate person must be reduced
by tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with paragraphs (5) to (8) and,
if relevant, (11) and (12) of direction 4 of the 2023 Directions.

4.7

In this regulation—

      “ adjusted contributions amount ” means—         if an election under
regulation 9 is made in relation to M’s remediable service, the aggregate of
the contributions M would have paid in respect of M’s remediable service in
the relevant scheme years if M had been required to pay 2015 scheme
contributions in respect of that service,           otherwise, the aggregate
of M’s legacy scheme contributions in respect of M’s remediable service in the
relevant scheme years;                 “ appropriate person ” means—
M, or           if M is deceased, M’s personal representatives;
“ operative time ” means—         if an election under regulation 9 is made in
relation to M’s remediable service, the time the election is made;
otherwise, the end of the immediate choice election period in relation to M;
“ paid contributions amount ” means—         the aggregate of the legacy
scheme contributions, or           the aggregate of the 2015 scheme
contributions;         paid by M in relation to M’s remediable service in the
relevant scheme years;           “ relevant member ” means a member other than
an immediate detriment remedy member who—         either—         is an
immediate choice member, or           died before 1st October 2023, and
is or was a medical practitioner or non-GP provider who paid or would have
paid contributions in respect of any scheme year falling within the period of
their remediable service in respect of M’s certified or final pensionable
earnings in accordance with—         paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the 1995
Regulations;           regulation 161 of the 2008 Regulations; or
regulation 37(3)(a) of the 2015 Regulations.

4.8

Where this regulation applies, section 15 of PSPJOA 2022 (Pension
contributions: pensioner and deceased members) does not apply.

#### Pension contributions of medical practitioners and non-GP providers: deferred choice members


5

5.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant member (“ M ”) who has
remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under
that scheme whether or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (“M’s
remediable service”) in the circumstances described in paragraph (2).

5.2

The circumstances are that, at the operative time—

5.2.a

the paid contributions amount in relation to M is less than

5.2.b

the adjusted contributions amount in relation to M.

5.3

In these circumstances, the appropriate person must pay an amount equal to the
difference to the scheme adjusted in accordance with paragraph (5).

5.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply where M has waived M’s right to the compensation
payment otherwise due under regulation 3 (see regulation 3(5)) unless that
waiver is void.

5.5

The contributions owed to the scheme by the appropriate person must be reduced
by tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with paragraphs (5) to (8) and,
if relevant, (11) and (12) of direction 4 of the 2023 Directions (powers to
reduce or waive liabilities).

5.6

In this regulation—

      “ adjusted contributions amount ” means—         if an election under
regulation 12 is made in relation to M’s remediable service, the aggregate of
the contributions M would have paid in respect of M’s remediable service in
the relevant scheme years if M had been required to pay 2015 scheme
contributions in respect of that service; or           otherwise, the
aggregate of M’s legacy scheme contributions in respect of M’s remediable
service in the relevant scheme years;                 “ appropriate person ”
means—         M, or           if M is deceased, M’s personal representatives;
“ operative time ” means—         if an election under regulation 12 is made
in relation to M’s remediable service, the time the election is made, or
otherwise, the end of the deferred choice election period in relation to M;
“ paid contributions amount ” means the aggregate of—         the legacy
scheme contributions, or           the 2015 scheme contributions,         paid
by M in relation to M’s remediable service in the relevant scheme years;
“ relevant member ” means a member who is—         a deferred choice member,
and           a medical practitioner or non-GP provider who paid or would have
paid contributions in respect of any scheme year falling within the period of
their remediable service in respect of their certified or final pensionable
earnings in accordance with—         paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the 1995
Regulations;           regulation 161 of the 2008 Regulations; or
regulation 37(3)(a) of the 2015 Regulations.

5.7

Where this regulation applies, section 17 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension
contributions: active and deferred members (deferred correction)) does not
apply.

#### Remediable service statements


6

6.1

The scheme manager must provide a remediable service statement in accordance
with section 29 of PSPJOA 2022 , direction 20 of the 2023 Directions and this
regulation to each remedy member or, as the case may be, designated person who
has not made an election in respect of that service pursuant to—

6.1.a

regulation 9; or

6.1.b

regulation 12.

6.2

The scheme manager must provide the statement to each such remedy member or
designated person on or before the relevant date .

6.3

The scheme manager must provide a further remediable service statement—

6.3.a

where the remedy member has remediable service in an employment or office in
relation to which the member is for the time being an active member, at least
once in each year ending with the anniversary of the relevant date;

6.3.b

where the remedy member has remediable service in an employment or office in
relation to which the member is for the time being a deferred member, on
request and within three months beginning with the day of that request.

### Elections


#### Eligibility to make an election: designated persons


7

7.1

This regulation applies where for the purposes of regulation 8, 9 or 12 a
designated person may make an election on behalf of a remedy member.

7.2

Where this regulation applies, the designated person is—

7.2.a

in the circumstances described in regulation 8(2)(b)(i), 9(2)(b)(i) or
12(2)(b)(i)—

7.2.a.i

a person who is capable and—

7.2.a.i.aa

entitled to a surviving partner pension in relation to that member under
regulations 23 to 31H of the 1995 Regulations;

7.2.a.i.bb

entitled to a surviving adult dependant pension in relation to that member
under regulation 67 or 194 of the 2008 Regulations; or

7.2.a.i.cc

entitled to a surviving adult dependant pension in relation to that member
under regulation 112 of the 2015 Regulations; or

7.2.a.ii

where there is no such person (capable or otherwise), a person who on the date
of issue of a remediable service statement in relation to that member (see
regulation 6) is aged 18 or over, capable and—

7.2.a.ii.aa

entitled as the sole dependent child of that member to pension benefits in
relation to that member under regulations 32 to 38 of the 1995 Regulations
(child allowance);

7.2.a.ii.bb

entitled as the sole dependent child of that member to pension benefits in
relation to that member under Chapter 5 of Part 2 (benefits for officers:
death benefits) or Chapter 5 of Part 3 (benefits for practitioners etc: death
benefits) of the 2008 Regulations ; or

7.2.a.ii.cc

entitled as the sole eligible child of that member to pension benefits in
relation to that member under Chapter 2 of Part 6 of the 2015 Regulations
(survivor benefits: child survivor);

7.2.a.iii

otherwise, the scheme manager or a person appointed by the scheme manager;

7.2.b

in the circumstances described in regulation 8(2)(b)(ii), 9(2)(b)(ii),
9(2)(b)(iii)(aa) or 12(2)(b)(ii), a personal representative, of the remedy
member;

7.2.c

in the circumstances described in regulation 8(2)(b)(iii), 9(2)(b)(iii)(bb) or
12(2)(b)(iii), the scheme manager or a person appointed by the scheme manager.

7.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)—

7.3.a

a person is capable unless, in the opinion of the scheme manager, that person
is, by reason of illness or mental disorder or otherwise, unable to look after
their own affairs;

7.3.b

the person appointed by the scheme manager (see paragraph (2)(a)(iii) and (c))
may include, in particular—

7.3.b.i

the personal representatives of the remedy member;

7.3.b.ii

the parent or guardian of a dependent or eligible child; or

7.3.b.iii

a dependent or eligible child.

#### Election for retrospective provision to apply to opted-out service


8

8.1

A person mentioned in paragraph (2) may make an election in relation to
relevant opted-out service  of a member of the legacy scheme or the 2015
scheme (“an opted-out service election”) in accordance with this regulation.

8.2

That person is—

8.2.a

a member (“ M ”) who has a period or periods of service in an employment or
office that would have been pensionable and remediable service under the
legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme had M not opted out of that scheme for that
period, or those periods (“relevant opted-out service”); or

8.2.b

a designated person or such a person as would be a designated person were the
relevant opted-out service considered remediable service) where—

8.2.b.i

M is deceased and was not at the time of their death entitled to a retirement
pension in respect of pensionable service under the legacy scheme or the 2015
scheme;

8.2.b.ii

M is deceased and was at the time of their death entitled to such a retirement
pension; or

8.2.b.iii

M is, in the opinion of the scheme manager, by reason of illness or mental
disorder or otherwise unable to look after their own affairs.

8.3

An opted-out service election may only be made if an application by or on
behalf of M is made in a form and within a period determined, and accompanied
by such information as the scheme manager may require.

8.4

The scheme manager—

8.4.a

may refuse the application if the condition in paragraph (5) is not met;

8.4.b

must, within six months of receiving the application, send to the person who
made the application notice about its outcome;

8.4.c

must, if the scheme manager accepts the application, include with that notice
a remediable service statement in accordance with section 29 of PSPJOA 2022
and direction 20 of the 2023 Directions.

8.5

The condition referred to in paragraph (4)(a) is that the scheme manager is
satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but for an actual or
anticipated relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule , M would not, during
the period of M’s remediable service, have made the decision to opt out of the
legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme between 1st April 2015 and 31st March 2022
(both dates inclusive).

8.6

That condition is met where M informed the scheme manager at any time between
1st October 2014 and 31st March 2022 (those dates included) of the decision by
virtue of which M’s service became relevant opted-out service.

8.7

Where the scheme manager has accepted an application made under paragraph (3),
the person mentioned in paragraph (2) may make an opted-out service election
which must be—

8.7.a

made after a remediable service statement has been provided in accordance with
paragraph (4)(c);

8.7.b

in a form determined, and accompanied by such information as is required, by
the scheme manager.

#### Election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and deceased members


9

9.1

A person mentioned in paragraph (2) may make an election for the benefits paid
to or in respect of a remedy member with regard to that member’s remediable
service to be determined as if the service to which those benefits relate were
pensionable service under the 2015 scheme (an “immediate choice election”) in
accordance with this regulation.

9.2

That person is—

9.2.a

an immediate choice member; or

9.2.b

a designated person (see regulation 7) where—

9.2.b.i

the remedy member died before 1st October 2023 and was not at the time of
their death entitled to a retirement pension in respect of their remediable
service;

9.2.b.ii

the remedy member died before that date and was at the time of their death
entitled to a retirement pension in respect of their remediable service; or

9.2.b.iii

the immediate choice member—

9.2.b.iii.aa

died on or after 1st October 2023, or

9.2.b.iii.bb

is, in the opinion of the scheme manager, by reason of illness or mental
disorder or otherwise unable to look after their own affairs.

9.3

For the purposes of this regulation, an immediate choice election must—

9.3.a

contain such information as the scheme manager requires;

9.3.b

be made by the immediate choice member or designated person in writing and in
such form as the scheme manager determines; and

9.3.c

be received by the scheme manager before the end of the immediate choice
election period.

9.4

Where the scheme manager accepts an immediate choice election made by an
immediate choice remedy member or designated person in accordance with this
regulation or treats such an election as having been made in accordance with
paragraph (6), that election is—

9.4.a

treated as having effect—

9.4.a.i

immediately before the member became a pensioner member  of the legacy scheme
or the 2015 scheme, or

9.4.a.ii

immediately before the remedy member’s death if the member died before
becoming a pensioner member; and

9.4.b

irrevocable.

9.5

From the date on which the election is treated as having effect, the benefits
due in respect of the remedy member’s remediable service, in place of the
benefits being paid for that service, are such benefits as the scheme manager
determines should be paid to or in respect of that member, after having regard
to all the circumstances of the case and treating that service as if for all
purposes it were pensionable service under the 2015 scheme.

9.6

The scheme manager may treat an immediate choice election as having been made
under this regulation immediately before the end of the immediate choice
election period if paragraph (7) applies.

9.7

This paragraph applies if the scheme manager—

9.7.a

does not receive an immediate choice election before the end of the immediate
choice election period, and

9.7.b

determines, after having regard to all the circumstances of the case and the
advice of the scheme actuary, that it would be more beneficial if the benefits
to be paid in respect of the remedy member’s remediable service are determined
under the 2015 Regulations.

9.8

Where this regulation applies, the reference in section 6(4)(a) of PSPJOA 2022
(immediate choice to receive new scheme benefits) to “the end of the section 6
election period” is to be read as a reference to the end of the immediate
choice election period (see regulation 2(1)).

#### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits: immediate choice members and deceased members


10

10.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant member (“ M ”) who has
remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under
that scheme whether or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (“M’s
remediable service”).

10.2

Where, at the operative time—

10.2.a

the aggregate of the pension benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of section 3(2) of PSPJOA 2022 (benefits already paid)) have
been paid under the scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of,
or associated with, M’s remediable service exceeds

10.2.b

the aggregate of the pension benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled
under the scheme in respect of, or associated with, the service after taking
into account the effect, if any, of—

10.2.b.i

section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 and regulation 9 in relation to the pension
benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled in respect of the service, and

10.2.b.ii

Parts 4 (voluntary contributions) and 6 (transfers) in relation to the pension
benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled that are associated with the
service,

the appropriate person must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
scheme.

10.3

Where, at the operative time—

10.3.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) is less than

10.3.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(b),

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
appropriate person.

10.4

Where, at the operative time—

10.4.a

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of section 3(2) of PSPJOA 2022) have been paid under the
scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of, or associated with,
M’s remediable service exceeds

10.4.b

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled
under the scheme in respect of, or associated with, the service after taking
into account the effect, if any, of—

10.4.b.i

section 2(1) and regulation 9 in relation to the lump sum benefits to which
the beneficiary is entitled in respect of the service, and

10.4.b.ii

Parts 4 (voluntary contributions) and 6 (transfers) in relation to the lump
sum benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled that are associated with the
service,

the appropriate person must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
scheme.

10.5

Where, at the operative time—

10.5.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (4)(a) is less than

10.5.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (4)(b),

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
appropriate person.

10.6

For the purposes of paragraphs (2) and (4), pension benefits and lump sum
benefits are associated with M’s remediable service if those benefits are, or
are derived from, one or more of the following—

10.6.a

additional pension payable to or in respect of M where one or more of the
circumstances described in regulation 19(1)(c) (treatment of additional
contributions made under the legacy scheme: immediate choice members and
deceased members) apply in relation to that pension;

10.6.b

pension payable to or in respect of M where one or both of the circumstances
described in regulation 21(1)(c) (treatment of additional contributions made
under the 2015 scheme: immediate choice members and deceased members) apply in
relation to that pension;

10.6.c

buy-out contributions paid by or in respect of M where the circumstance
described in regulation 22(1)(c) (treatment of buy-out contributions made
under 2015 regulation 47: immediate choice members and deceased members)
applies in relation to those contributions; and

10.6.d

the acceptance by the scheme manager of a transfer payment or transfer value
payment—

10.6.d.i

under the circumstances described in regulation 38(2)(b) (treatment of
transfer and transfer value payments made to the 1995 Section or the 2008
Section that are not made under public sector transfer arrangements);

10.6.d.ii

under the circumstances described in regulation 41(1)(c)(iii) (transfer and
transfer value payments made to the 2015 scheme treated as if they have been
accepted under the legacy scheme: immediate choice members and deceased
members); or

10.6.d.iii

in accordance with regulation 53(1) (application and interpretation of
regulations 54 to 56: remediable transfer value payments and remediable club
transfer value payments).

10.7

In this regulation—

      “ appropriate person ” means—         in paragraphs (2) and (3), the
beneficiary referred to in paragraph (2) or, if the beneficiary is deceased,
that beneficiary’s personal representatives;           in paragraphs (4) and
(5), the beneficiary referred to in paragraph (4) or, if the beneficiary is
deceased, that beneficiary’s personal representatives;                 “
operative time ” means—         if an immediate choice election by virtue of
regulation 9 is made in relation to M’s remediable service, the time when the
election is made;           otherwise, the end of the immediate choice
election period in relation to M;                 “ relevant member ” means a
member other than an immediate detriment remedy member who—         is an
immediate choice member, or           died before 1st October 2023.

10.8

Where this regulation applies, section 14 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension benefits and
lump sum benefits: pensioner and deceased members) does not apply.

#### Continuation of pensions: immediate or deferred choice election: dependent and eligible children of a remedy member


11

11.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant child of a remedy member
where—

11.1.a

a designated person is eligible to make an election on behalf of the member —

11.1.a.i

under regulation 9(1) (see regulation 9(2)(b)), or

11.1.a.ii

under regulation 12(1) (see regulation 12(2)(b); and

11.1.b

on the relevant date, that child is not living in the same household as that
designated person.

11.2

Paragraph (4) applies if the scheme manager determines that as a result of the
acceptance of such an election made by the designated person, the pension
being paid to or in respect of a relevant child will reduce.

11.3

Paragraph (5) applies if the scheme manager determines that as a result of a
designated person not making such an election—

11.3.a

before the end of the immediate choice election period, where paragraph
(1)(a)(i) applies; or

11.3.b

before the end of the deferred choice election period, where paragraph
(1)(a)(ii) applies,

the pension being paid to or in respect of a relevant child will reduce.

11.4

Where this paragraph applies (see paragraph (2)), the scheme manager may treat
the election as if it applied only to pension benefits in respect of
remediable service other than the pension being paid for that service to or in
respect of a relevant child.

11.5

Where this paragraph applies (see paragraph (3)), the scheme manager may treat
the pension being paid for remediable service to or in respect of a relevant
child as if the election had been made in respect of that service.

11.6

In this regulation—

      “ relevant child ” means a child who on after 30th September 2023 was—
entitled as a dependent child of a remedy member to pension benefits in
relation to that member under regulations 32 to 38 of the 1995 Regulations
(dependent child);           entitled as a dependent child of a remedy member
to pension benefits in relation to that member under Chapter 5 of Part 2 or
Chapter 5 of Part 3 of the 2008 Regulations (Death benefits); or
entitled as an eligible child of a remedy member to pension benefits in
relation to that member under Chapter 2 of Part 6 of the 2015 Regulations
(Survivor benefits: child survivor);                 “ relevant date ” means—
where paragraph (1)(a)(i) applies—         the day on which the scheme manager
accepts an immediate choice election made in accordance with regulation 9 by
the designated person mentioned in regulation 9(2)(b), or           if that
designated person does not make such an election, the end of the immediate
choice election period, or                 where paragraph (1)(a)(ii) applies—
the day on which the scheme manager accepts a deferred choice election made in
accordance with regulation 12 by the designated person mentioned in regulation
12(2)(b), or           if that designated person does not make such an
election, the end of the deferred choice election period.

#### Election for 2015 scheme benefits: deferred choice members and deceased members


12

12.1

A person mentioned in paragraph (2) may make an election for the benefits paid
to or in respect of a remedy member with regard to that member’s remediable
service to be determined as if the service to which those benefits relate were
pensionable service for the purposes of the 2015 Regulations (a “deferred
choice election”) in accordance with this regulation.

12.2

That person is—

12.2.a

a deferred choice member; or

12.2.b

a designated person where—

12.2.b.i

the remedy member dies on or after 1st October 2023 and was not at the time of
their death entitled to a retirement pension in respect of their remediable
service;

12.2.b.ii

the remedy member becomes entitled to a retirement pension in respect of their
remediable service, and dies, on or after that date; or

12.2.b.iii

the deferred choice member is, in the opinion of the scheme manager, by reason
of illness or mental disorder or otherwise unable to look after their own
affairs.

12.3

For the purposes of this regulation, a deferred choice election must—

12.3.a

contain such information as the scheme manager requires;

12.3.b

be made by a deferred choice member or a designated person in writing and in
such form as the scheme manager determines; and

12.3.c

be received by the scheme manager before the end of the deferred choice
election period.

12.4

Where the scheme manager accepts a deferred choice election made in accordance
with this regulation or treats such an election as having been made in
accordance with paragraph (6), that election is—

12.4.a

treated as having effect—

12.4.a.i

immediately before the deferred choice member becomes a pensioner member in
respect of their remediable service, or

12.4.a.ii

immediately before the remedy member’s death; and

12.4.b

irrevocable.

12.5

From the date on which the election is treated as having effect, the benefits
due in respect of the remedy member’s remediable service are such benefits as
the scheme manager determines should be paid to or in respect of that member,
after having regard to all the circumstances of the case and treating that
service as if for all purposes it were pensionable service under the 2015
scheme.

12.6

The scheme manager may treat a deferred choice election as having been made
under this regulation immediately before the end of the deferred choice
election period if paragraph (7) applies.

12.7

This paragraph applies if the scheme manager—

12.7.a

does not receive a deferred choice election before the end of the deferred
choice election period, and

12.7.b

determines, after having regard to all the circumstances of the case and the
advice of the scheme actuary, that it would be more beneficial if the benefits
to be paid in respect of the remedy member’s remediable service are determined
in accordance with the provisions of the 2015 Regulations.

12.8

The end of the deferred choice election period must not be more than one year
before the day on which it is reasonably expected that, if a deferred choice
election were made, benefits under the 2015 scheme would become payable to or
in respect of the deferred choice member.

#### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits: deferred choice election: pensioner and deceased members


13

13.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant member (“ M ”) who has
remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under
that scheme whether or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (“M’s
remediable service”).

13.2

Where, at the operative time—

13.2.a

the aggregate of the pension benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of section 3(2) of PSPJOA 2022 (benefits already paid)) have
been paid under the scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of,
or associated with, M’s remediable service exceeds

13.2.b

the aggregate of the pension benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled
under the scheme in respect of, or associated with, the service after taking
into account the effect, if any, of—

13.2.b.i

section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 and regulation 12 in relation to the pension
benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled in respect of the service, and

13.2.b.ii

Parts 4 (voluntary contributions) and 6 (transfers) in relation to the pension
benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled that are associated with the
service,

the appropriate person must pay to the scheme an amount equal to the
difference.

13.3

Where, at the operative time—

13.3.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) is less than

13.3.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(b),

the scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount equal to the
difference.

13.4

Where, at the operative time—

13.4.a

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of section 3(2) of PSPJOA 2022) have been paid under the
scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of, or associated with,
M’s remediable service exceeds

13.4.b

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled
under the scheme in respect of, or associated with, the service after taking
into account the effect, if any, of—

13.4.b.i

section 2(1) of that Act and regulation 12 in relation to the lump sum
benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled in respect of the service, and

13.4.b.ii

Parts 4 (voluntary contributions) and 6 (transfers) in relation to the lump
sum benefits to which the beneficiary is entitled that are associated with the
service,

the appropriate person must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
scheme.

13.5

Where, at the operative time—

13.5.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (4)(a) is less than

13.5.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (4)(b),

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
appropriate person.

13.6

For the purposes of paragraphs (2) and (4), pension benefits and lump sum
benefits are associated with M’s remediable service if those benefits are, or
are derived from, one or more of the following—

13.6.a

additional pension payable to or in respect of M where one or more of the
circumstances described in regulation 19(1)(c) (treatment of additional
contributions made under the legacy scheme: deferred choice members) apply in
relation to that pension;

13.6.b

additional pension payable to or in respect of M where one or both of the
circumstances described in paragraph (2) of regulation 17 (treatment of a
corresponding option exercised in accordance with regulation 15 on the making
of a deferred choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under regulation 12)
apply in relation to that pension;

13.6.c

buy-out contributions paid by or in respect of M where the circumstance
described in regulation 18(1)(c) (treatment of buy-out contributions made
under 2015 regulation 47: deferred choice members) applies in relation to
those contributions; and

13.6.d

the acceptance by the scheme manager of a transfer payment or transfer value
payment under one or more of—

13.6.d.i

under the circumstance described in regulation 38(2)(b) (treatment of transfer
and transfer value payments made to the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section that
are not made under public sector transfer arrangements);

13.6.d.ii

under the circumstance described in regulation 39(1)(c) (transfer value
payments made to the 2015 scheme that are not made under public sector
transfer arrangements: where they must be treated as transfer payments under
the 1995 Section or transfer value payments under the 2008 Section: deferred
choice members);

13.6.d.iii

under the circumstance described in regulation 40(1) (transfer value payments
in accordance with regulation 39: variation of the member’s rights on the
making of a deferred choice election); or

13.6.d.iv

in accordance with regulation 53(1) (application and interpretation of
regulations 54 to 56: remediable transfer value payments and remediable club
transfer value payments).

13.7

In this regulation—

      “ appropriate person ” means—         in paragraphs (2) and (3), the
beneficiary referred to in paragraph (2) or, if the beneficiary is deceased,
that beneficiary’s personal representatives;           in paragraphs (4) and
(5), the beneficiary referred to in paragraph (4) or, if the beneficiary is
deceased, that beneficiary’s personal representatives.                 “
operative time ” means—         if a deferred choice election by virtue of
regulation 12 is made in relation to M’s remediable service, the time when the
election is made;           otherwise, the end of the deferred choice election
period in relation to M;                 “ relevant member ” means a deferred
choice member or a remedy member who dies on or after 1st October 2023;

### Voluntary contributions


#### Interpretation of Part 4


14

In this Part—

      “ 1995 regulation 73A ” means regulation 73A of the 1995 Regulations
(Option to pay additional periodical contributions to purchase additional
pension);           “ 1995 regulation 73C ” means regulation 73C of the 1995
Regulations (Members option to pay lump sum contributions to purchase
additional pension);           “ 1995 regulation 73D ” means regulation 73D of
the 1995 Regulations (Payment of additional lump sum contributions by
employing authority);           “ 2008 regulation 34 ” means regulation 34 of
the 2008 Regulations  (Member’s option to pay additional periodical
contributions to purchase additional pension);           “ 2008 regulation 36
” means regulation 36 of the 2008 Regulations (Member’s option to pay lump sum
contribution to purchase additional pension);           “ 2008 regulation 37 ”
means regulation 37 of the 2008 Regulations (Payment of additional lump sum
contributions by employing authority);           “ 2008 regulation 165 ” means
regulation 165 of the 2008 Regulations  (Member’s option to pay additional
periodical contributions to purchase additional pension);           “ 2008
regulation 167 ” means regulation 167 of the 2008 Regulations (Member’s option
to pay lump sum contribution to purchase additional pension);           “ 2008
regulation 168 ” means regulation 168 of the 2008 Regulations (Payment of
additional lump sum contributions by employing authority);           “ 2015
regulation 47 ” means regulation 47 of the 2015 Regulations (Payment of buy-
out contributions);           “ 2015 regulation 58 ” means regulation 58 of
the 2015 Regulations (Accepting an additional pension election);           “
2015 regulation 61 ” means regulation 61 of the 2015 Regulations (Lump sum
contributions: payment of contributions and credit of additional pension);
“ 2015 regulation 63 ” means regulation 63 of the 2015 Regulations (Periodic
contributions);           “ 2015 transitional regulation 25 ” means regulation
25 of the 2015 Transitional Regulations  (Decoupling of benefits derived from
additional contributions);           “ actuarial increase ” means a late
payment actuarial increase under paragraph 2 of Schedule 11 to the 2015
Regulations (Calculation of pension: late payment of pension with actuarial
increase) where the calculation of that increase must take account of any buy-
out election in accordance with sub-paragraph (4) of that paragraph;
“ actuarial reduction ” has the meaning given in paragraph 9 of Schedule 7 to
the 2015 Regulations (Pension accounts);           “ corresponding option ”
means—         where pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy
member’s remediable service is treated as being pensionable service under the
1995 Regulations—         an option under 1995 regulation 73A if the member
paid contributions in respect of an additional pension election in accordance
with 2015 regulation 63;           an option under 1995 regulation 73C if the
member paid the lump sum contribution referred to in 2015 regulation 61; or
an option under 1995 regulation 73D if the member’s employing authority paid
the lump sum contribution referred to in 2015 regulation 61; or
where pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy member’s remediable
service is treated as being pensionable service under the 2008 Regulations—
an option under 2008 regulation 34 or 2008 regulation 165 if the member paid
contributions in respect of an additional pension election in accordance with
2015 regulation 63;           an option under 2008 regulation 36 or 2008
regulation 167 if the member paid the lump sum contribution referred to in
2015 regulation 61; or           an option under 2008 regulation 37 or 2008
regulation 168 if the member’s employing authority paid the lump sum
contribution referred to in 2015 regulation 61.                       “
relevant contributions ” means contributions that were paid by the remedy
member—         on or after the member’s 60th birthday if the member’s
contributions are to be treated as if they had been paid under a corresponding
option exercised under the 1995 Regulations, or           on or after the
member’s 65th birthday if the member’s contributions are to be treated as if
they had been paid under a corresponding option exercised under the 2008
Regulations;                 “ remedy period ” means the period from 1st April
2015 to 31st March 2022 (both dates inclusive).

#### Elections to pay contributions for additional pension: where they must be treated as if paid under a corresponding option exercised under the 1995 Regulations or the 2008 Regulations


15

15.1

This regulation applies to a deferred choice member where, during the remedy
period, one or both of the following occurred—

15.1.a

the member’s additional pension account was credited with an amount of
additional pension in accordance with 2015 regulation 61;

15.1.b

the member paid contributions in respect of an additional pension election in
accordance with 2015 regulation 63.

15.2

Where this regulation applies—

15.2.a

all the member’s rights secured by the credit or payment of contributions
mentioned in paragraph (1) are extinguished; and

15.2.b

those contributions must be treated as if they had been paid in the relevant
scheme year in which they were paid under a corresponding option exercised
under the 1995 Regulations or the 2008 Regulations.

15.3

For the purposes of this regulation, the reference to “£5,000” in paragraph
(7) of 1995 regulation 73A, 2008 regulation 34 and 2008 regulation 165 is to
be read as if it were a reference to “£12,079”.

15.4

Paragraph (5) applies where the member’s contributions are treated as if they
had been paid under a corresponding option in accordance with paragraph
(2)(b).

15.5

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, take those contributions into account when
making one or both of the determinations mentioned in paragraph (6).

15.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5), the determinations are—

15.6.a

whether the scheme manager is prohibited from accepting an election from a
member under regulation 54(2) of the 2015 Regulations (election to pay
contributions for additional pension) in so far as the effect of accepting it
would be to provide the member with one or more pensions which exceeds, or in
aggregate exceed, the overall limit that applies to such provision under
regulation 60 of those Regulations (overall limit on extra pension) for
providing additional pensions; and

15.6.b

whether the scheme manager is prohibited from accepting an election from a
member under regulation 42(1) of the 2015 Regulations (eligibility to make
buy-out election) because the value of the actuarial reduction bought out
exceeds the greater of the first and second amounts in regulation 45(3) of
those Regulations (overall limit on extra pension).

#### Treatment of contributions paid after 31st March 2022 under a corresponding option exercised in accordance with regulation 15(2)(b)


16

16.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member to whom regulation 15(1) applies
where, during the remedy period, the member paid contributions in respect of
an additional pension election in accordance with 2015 regulation 63 (see
regulation 15(1)(b)) and those contributions are treated as having been paid
under a corresponding option exercised under the 1995 Regulations or the 2008
Regulations in accordance with regulation 15(2)(b).

16.2

Where this regulation applies, regulation 23 of the 2015 Transitional
Regulations (existing additional pension contracts) and paragraph (3) apply to
the remedy member in respect of that corresponding option unless the member
makes an election in accordance with paragraph (5).

16.3

The scheme manager must pay to a remedy member an amount of compensation
calculated in accordance with paragraph (4) in respect of any relevant
contributions.

16.4

The amount of compensation must be equal to the relevant contributions paid by
the member reduced by tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with
paragraphs (5) to (8) of direction 5 of the 2023 Directions and, if relevant,
paragraphs (11) and (12) of that direction.

16.5

A remedy member may make an election to cancel the corresponding option with
effect from (and including) 1st April 2022 which must—

16.5.a

be made by the member by notice in writing;

16.5.b

be received by the scheme manager within a period of three months beginning
with the day after the scheme manager sends the notice referred to in
paragraphs (6) and (7); and

16.5.c

contain such information as the scheme manager requires.

16.6

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to the remedy member of the
member’s right to make such an election.

16.7

The notice must be sent to the member before 1st July 2024 or such later date
as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case and must specify—

16.7.a

the annual amount of additional pension for which the remedy member is paying
additional contributions determined by the scheme manager in respect of the
corresponding option that applies to the member under regulation 15(2)(b);

16.7.b

the annual amount of additional pension for which the remedy member will be
paying contributions under the 2015 Regulations if the member makes an
election under this regulation; and

16.7.c

the date by which an election under this regulation must be received by the
scheme manager.

16.8

Where the scheme manager accepts such an election—

16.8.a

the remedy member must be treated as if the scheme manager had accepted a new
election to pay contributions under 2015 regulation 58 in respect of such
contributions made by the member after 31st March 2022; and

16.8.b

the scheme manager must determine the amount of the annual rate of additional
pension being purchased in respect of that election by reference to the
actuarial tables that applied for that purpose on the day the member’s
election to pay contributions in accordance with 2015 regulation 63 (see
regulation 15(1)(b)) was accepted under 2015 regulation 58.

#### Treatment of a corresponding option exercised in accordance with regulation 15 on the making of a deferred choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under regulation 12


17

17.1

This regulation applies to a relevant remedy member who—

17.1.a

has elected to cancel their corresponding option exercised under—

17.1.a.i

1995 regulation 73A,

17.1.a.ii

2008 regulation 34, or

17.1.a.iii

2008 regulation 165,

with effect from (and including) 1st April 2022 in accordance with regulation
16(5); or

17.1.b

is treated as if contributions made by the member or, on the member’s behalf,
by the member’s employing authority by lump sum had, for all purposes, been
made pursuant to a corresponding option exercised under—

17.1.b.i

1995 regulation 73C or 1995 regulation 73D,

17.1.b.ii

2008 regulation 36 or 2008 regulation 37, or

17.1.b.iii

2008 regulation 167 or 2008 regulation 168.

17.2

Where this regulation applies, if the member makes a deferred choice election
for 2015 scheme benefits under regulation 12—

17.2.a

paragraph (3)(a) applies in respect of the member’s rights to additional
pension secured by the payment of additional contributions made before 1st
April 2022 under a corresponding option exercised under—

17.2.a.i

1995 regulation 73A,

17.2.a.ii

2008 regulation 34, or

17.2.a.iii

2008 regulation 165;

17.2.b

paragraph (3)(b) applies in respect of the member’s rights to additional
pension secured by the payment of contributions made under a corresponding
option exercised under—

17.2.b.i

1995 regulation 73C or 1995 regulation 73D,

17.2.b.ii

2008 regulation 36 or 2008 regulation 37, or

17.2.b.iii

2008 regulation 167 or 2008 regulation 168.

17.3

The scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the scheme
actuary, vary the member’s rights to the additional pension purchased under
the corresponding options referred to in paragraph (2) so that those rights
are of an equivalent value to the additional pension rights the member would
have secured if the contributions had been made in the relevant scheme year in
which they were paid—

17.3.a

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 63, where paragraph (2)(a)
applies to the member; and

17.3.b

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 61, where paragraph (2)(b)
applies to the member.

17.4

In this regulation, “ relevant remedy member ” means a remedy member other
than one to whom payment of part of a pension has been made pursuant to
paragraph (2) of 2015 transitional regulation 25 in respect of additional
pension resulting from an option under 1995 regulation 73A or 1995 regulation
73C.

#### Treatment of buy-out contributions made under 2015 regulation 47: deferred choice members


18

18.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member—

18.1.a

who has pensionable service under the legacy scheme by virtue of section 2(1)
of PSPJOA 2022;

18.1.b

who is a deferred choice member; and

18.1.c

who paid buy-out contributions in accordance with 2015 regulation 47 during
the remedy period (including where any such contributions were paid by the
member’s employing authority in place of the member during that period under
paragraph (3) of that regulation (“employer buy-out contributions”)).

18.2

Where this regulation applies—

18.2.a

all the member’s rights secured by the payment of buy-out contributions
mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) are extinguished;

18.2.b

in respect of any buy-out contributions paid during the remedy period by a
member (excluding employer buy-out contributions), the member is entitled to
an amount of compensation determined in accordance with paragraph (13) unless
the member waives the member’s right to compensation in accordance with
paragraph (3); and

18.2.c

paragraph (8) applies in relation to employer buy-out contributions made in
respect of a member who makes an election under regulation 12 (election for
2015 scheme benefits: deferred choice members and deceased members).

18.3

A member may give the scheme manager a notice in writing that the member
waives the member’s right to compensation under this regulation (“compensation
waiver”).

18.4

A compensation waiver ceases to have effect when the member becomes eligible
to make an election under regulation 12, and

18.4.a

paragraph (5) applies to a member who does not make an election under
regulation 12 before the end of the deferred choice election period;

18.4.b

paragraph (6) applies to a member who does make such an election, where the
scheme manager determines that, as a consequence of treating the member’s
remediable service as if for all purposes it were pensionable service under
the 2015 scheme in accordance with regulation 12(5), neither an actuarial
reduction nor an actuarial increase will be applied to the annual rate of
pension due in respect of that service;

18.4.c

paragraph (8) applies to a member who does make such an election, where the
scheme manager determines that, as a consequence of treating the member’s
remediable service as if for all purposes it were pensionable service under
the 2015 scheme in accordance with regulation 12(5), an actuarial reduction or
an actuarial increase will be applied to the annual rate of pension due in
respect of that service.

18.5

On the payment of the member’s 1995 Section or 2008 Section benefits in
respect of the member’s remediable service, the member must claim by notice in
writing—

18.5.a

the compensation due under this regulation; or

18.5.b

rights that are of an equivalent value to the additional pension rights the
member would have secured if the contributions referred to in paragraph (1)(c)
had been made in the relevant scheme year in which they were paid under—

18.5.b.i

an option under 1995 regulation 73A on the payment of the member’s 1995
Section benefits in respect of the member’s remediable service, or

18.5.b.ii

an option under 2008 regulation 34 or 2008 regulation 165 on the payment of
the member’s benefits under the 2008 Section in respect of the member’s
remediable service.

18.6

On the payment of the member’s 1995 Section or 2008 Section benefits in
respect of the member’s remediable service, compensation again becomes payable
under this regulation.

18.7

At the same time as the member makes the election, the member must claim by
notice in writing—

18.7.a

the compensation due under this regulation; or

18.7.b

rights under the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant)
that, after having regard to the advice of the scheme actuary, the scheme
manager has determined are of an equivalent value to the member’s rights that
were extinguished under paragraph (2)(a).

18.8

Where the scheme manager determines that, as a consequence of treating the
member’s remediable service as if for all purposes it were pensionable service
under the 2015 scheme in accordance with regulation 12(5), an actuarial
reduction or an actuarial increase will be applied to the annual rate of
pension due in respect of that service, the member is entitled to the rights
set out in paragraph (9) in respect of employer buy-out contributions.

18.9

Where this paragraph applies, the member is entitled to rights under the 1995
Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant) that, after having regard
to the advice of the scheme actuary, the scheme manager has determined are of
an equivalent value to the member’s rights that were extinguished under
paragraph (2)(a) in so far as those rights relate to employer buy-out
contributions.

18.10

The scheme manager must—

18.10.a

send a notice in writing to the remedy member of the member’s right to claim
an amount of compensation under this regulation or to give the scheme manager
a compensation waiver in accordance with paragraph (3); or

18.10.b

if the member is deceased, pay to the member’s personal representatives an
amount of compensation determined in accordance with paragraph (13).

18.11

The notice must be sent to the member before 31st March 2024 or such later
date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the circumstances of
the case and must specify—

18.11.a

the amount of compensation the member is entitled to claim under this
regulation;

18.11.b

the dates by which the member’s claim for compensation in accordance with
paragraph (7)(a) (if made) and compensation waiver in accordance with
paragraph (3) (if given) must be received by the scheme manager;

18.11.c

the member’s options under paragraphs (5) and (7) if the member gives the
scheme manager a compensation waiver in accordance with paragraph (3).

18.12

The following must be provided in such form and must include such information
as the scheme manager requires—

18.12.a

a compensation waiver in accordance with paragraph (3);

18.12.b

a claim for compensation in accordance with paragraph (5)(a) or (7)(a);

18.12.c

a claim for rights in accordance with paragraph (5)(b) or (7)(b).

18.13

For the purposes of paragraphs (2)(b) and (10), the amount of compensation
must be equal to the buy-out contributions paid during the remedy period by
the member reduced by tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with
paragraphs (5) to (8) of direction 5 of the 2023 Directions and, if relevant,
paragraphs (11) and (12) of that direction.

#### Treatment of additional contributions made under the legacy scheme: deferred choice members


19

19.1

This regulation applies to a member—

19.1.a

who is a deferred choice member;

19.1.b

who is not a member to whom payment of part of a pension has been made
pursuant to paragraph (2) of 2015 transitional regulation 25 in respect of
additional pension resulting from an option under 1995 regulation 73A or 1995
regulation 73C;

19.1.c

where, during the remedy period one or more of the following occurred—

19.1.c.i

the contribution option period began in relation to the member’s option to pay
additional periodical contributions under 1995 regulation 73A, 2008 regulation
34 or 2008 regulation 165;

19.1.c.ii

the member’s employing authority paid to the Department the single lump sum
contribution in relation to the member’s option under 1995 regulation 73C,
2008 regulation 36 or 2008 regulation 167;

19.1.c.iii

the member’s employing authority paid to the Department the single lump sum
contribution in relation to that authority’s option under 1995 regulation 73D,
2008 regulation 37 or 2008 regulation 168 in respect of the member; and

19.1.d

in respect of whom a deferred choice election has been accepted by the scheme
manager or treated by the scheme manager as having been made in accordance
with regulation 12 (election for 2015 scheme benefits: deferred choice members
and deceased members).

19.2

Where this regulation applies and the scheme manager determines that the
benefits to be paid to or in respect of the remedy member for the member’s
remediable service are to be determined in accordance with the 2015
Regulations, the scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the
scheme actuary, vary the member’s rights to the additional pension purchased
in respect of the options referred to in paragraph (1)(c) so that those rights
are of an equivalent value to the additional pension rights the member would
have secured if the contributions had been made in the relevant scheme year in
which they were paid—

19.2.a

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 63 where paragraph (1)(c)(i)
applies to or in respect of the member; and

19.2.b

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 61, where paragraph (1)(c)(ii)
or (iii) applies to or in respect of the member.

#### Treatment of additional contributions made under the legacy scheme: immediate choice members and deceased members


20

20.1

This regulation applies to or in respect of a remedy member—

20.1.a

who on 30th September 2023;—

20.1.a.i

was a pensioner member with regard to benefits paid in respect of remediable
service under the legacy scheme; or

20.1.a.ii

was deceased;

20.1.b

who is not a member to whom payment of part of a pension has been made
pursuant to paragraph (2) of 2015 transitional regulation 25 in respect of
additional pension resulting from an option under 1995 regulation 73A or 1995
regulation 73C;

20.1.c

where, during the remedy period one or more of the following occurred—

20.1.c.i

the contribution option period began in relation to the member’s option to pay
additional periodical contributions under 1995 regulation 73A, 2008 regulation
34 or 2008 regulation 165;

20.1.c.ii

the member’s employing authority paid to the Department the single lump sum
contribution in relation to the member’s option under 1995 regulation 73C,
2008 regulation 36 or 2008 regulation 167;

20.1.c.iii

the member’s employing authority paid to the Department the single lump sum
contribution in relation to that authority’s option under 1995 regulation 73D,
2008 regulation 37 or 2008 regulation 168 in respect of the member; and

20.1.d

in respect of whom an immediate choice election has been accepted by the
scheme manager or treated by the scheme manager as having been made in
accordance with regulation 9 (election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate
choice members and deceased members).

20.2

Where this regulation applies and the scheme manager determines that the
benefits to be paid to or in respect of the remedy member for the member’s
remediable service are to be determined in accordance with the 2015
Regulations, the scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the
scheme actuary, vary the member’s rights to the additional benefits purchased
in respect of the options referred to in paragraph (1)(c) so that those rights
are of an equivalent value to the additional pension rights the member would
have secured if the contributions had been made in the relevant scheme year in
which they were paid—

20.2.a

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 63, where paragraph (1)(c)(i)
applies to or in respect of the member, and

20.2.b

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 61, where paragraph (1)(c)(ii)
or (iii) applies to or in respect of the member.

20.3

In this regulation, “ pensioner member ” means a person entitled to a pension,
including a partial retirement pension under regulation 49 or 180 of the 2008
Regulations  (Partial retirement (members aged at least 55)), where—

20.3.a

the person became entitled to that pension on or after 1st April 2015; and

20.3.b

at the same time as the person became entitled to that pension, the person
also became entitled to the immediate payment of additional pension in
accordance with regulation 49(5)(c) or 180(4)(c) of the 2008 Regulations.

#### Treatment of additional contributions made under the 2015 scheme: immediate choice members and deceased members


21

21.1

This regulation applies to or in respect of a remedy member—

21.1.a

who has pensionable service under the legacy scheme by virtue of section 2(1)
of PSPJOA 2022;

21.1.b

who—

21.1.b.i

is a relevant immediate choice member on 1st October 2023, or

21.1.b.ii

is a member who died before that date.

21.1.c

where, during the remedy period, one or both of the following occurred—

21.1.c.i

the member’s additional pension account was credited with an amount of
additional pension in accordance with 2015 regulation 61;

21.1.c.ii

the member paid contributions in respect of an additional pension election in
accordance with 2015 regulation 63.

21.2

Where this regulation applies—

21.2.a

all the remedy member’s rights secured by the credit or payment of
contributions mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) are extinguished;

21.2.b

as soon as reasonably practicable, the scheme manager must—

21.2.b.i

treat the contributions (other than any relevant contributions) as if they had
been paid in the relevant scheme year in which they were paid under a
corresponding option exercised under the 1995 Regulations or the 2008
Regulations, and

21.2.b.ii

pay to the remedy member or, if the member is deceased, to the member’s
personal representatives an amount of compensation calculated in accordance
with paragraph (4) in respect of any relevant contributions;

21.2.c

from (and including) 1st October 2023 until the date on which the scheme
manager completes the steps set out in sub-paragraph (b), any additional
benefits paid to or in respect of the remedy member in relation to that credit
or election must be paid from the relevant section of the legacy scheme; and

21.2.d

paragraph (3) applies to a remedy member in respect of whom an immediate
choice election has been accepted by the scheme manager or treated by the
scheme manager as having been made in accordance with regulation 9.

21.3

The scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the scheme
actuary, vary the member’s rights to the additional benefits purchased by
contributions paid under the corresponding options referred to in paragraph
(2)(b) so that those rights are of an equivalent value to the additional
pension rights the member would have secured if the contributions had been
made in the relevant scheme year in which they were paid—

21.3.a

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 61, where paragraph (1)(c)(i)
applies to or in respect of the member, and

21.3.b

in respect of an election under 2015 regulation 63, where paragraph (1)(c)(ii)
applies to or in respect of the member.

21.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b)(ii), the amount of compensation must be
equal to the relevant contributions paid by the member reduced by tax relief
amounts calculated in accordance with paragraphs (5) to (8) of direction 5 of
the 2023 Directions and, if relevant, paragraphs (11) and (12) of that
direction.

21.5

In this regulation—

      “ relevant immediate choice member ” means an immediate choice member
other than a member entitled to a partial retirement pension under regulation
85 of the 2015 Regulations (effect of the election) where the member did not
also become entitled to the immediate payment of additional pension under
paragraph (2)(c) of that regulation at the same time as the member became
entitled to the partial retirement pension;           “ relevant section of
the legacy scheme ” means—         the 1995 Section if, pursuant to section
2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy member’s remediable service is treated as
being pensionable service under the 1995 Regulations, or           the 2008
Section if, pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy member’s
remediable service is treated as being pensionable service under the 2008
Regulations.

21.6

For the purposes of this regulation, the reference to “£5,000” in paragraph
(7) of 1995 regulation 73A, 2008 regulation 34 and 2008 regulation 165 is to
be read as if it were a reference to “£12,079”.

#### Treatment of buy-out contributions made under 2015 regulation 47: immediate choice members and deceased members


22

22.1

This regulation applies to or in respect of a remedy member—

22.1.a

who has pensionable service under the legacy scheme by virtue of section 2(1)
of PSPJOA 2022;

22.1.b

who—

22.1.b.i

is an immediate choice member; or

22.1.b.ii

is a member who died before 1st October 2023; and

22.1.c

who paid buy-out contributions in accordance with 2015 regulation 47 during
the remedy period (including where any such contributions were paid by the
member’s employing authority in place of the member during that period under
paragraph (3) of that regulation (“employer buy-out contributions”)).

22.2

Where this regulation applies—

22.2.a

all the member’s rights secured by the payment of buy-out contributions
mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) are extinguished, and

22.2.b

unless paragraph (3) or (4) applies to or in respect of that member, the
scheme manager must pay to the member or, if the member is deceased to the
member’s personal representatives an amount of compensation determined in
accordance with paragraph (9) in respect of any buy-out contributions paid
during the remedy period by a member (excluding any employer buy-out
contributions).

22.3

This paragraph applies to or in respect of a member where—

22.3.a

an immediate choice election has been accepted by the scheme manager or
treated by the scheme manager as having been made in accordance with
regulation 9;

22.3.b

an annual pension to which an actuarial reduction or an actuarial increase was
applied under the 2015 Regulations is being paid to the member or, if the
member is deceased, was paid to the member before the member’s death; and

22.3.c

the scheme manager accepts a claim made by a member or designated person in
accordance with paragraph (5) for rights under the 1995 Section or the 2008
Section (whichever is relevant) that, after having regard to the advice of the
scheme actuary, the scheme manager has determined are of an equivalent value
to the member’s rights that were extinguished under paragraph (2)(a).

22.4

This paragraph applies to or in respect of a member where—

22.4.a

an immediate choice election has not been accepted by the scheme manager or
treated by the scheme manager as having been made in accordance with
regulation 9; and

22.4.b

the scheme manager accepts a claim made by a member or designated person in
accordance with paragraph (6) for rights that are of an equivalent value to
the additional pension rights the member would have secured if the
contributions referred to in paragraph (1)(c) had been made in the relevant
scheme year in which they were paid under—

22.4.b.i

an option under 1995 regulation 73A on the payment of the member’s 1995
Section benefits in respect of the member’s remediable service, or

22.4.b.ii

an option under 2008 regulation 34 or 2008 regulation 165 on the payment of
the member’s benefits under the 2008 Section in respect of the member’s
remediable service.

22.5

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(c), the member or designated person must
make the claim—

22.5.a

by notice in writing, in such form and including such further information as
the scheme manager requires; and

22.5.b

at the same time as an election under regulation 9 is made.

22.6

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(b), the member or designated person must
make the claim—

22.6.a

by notice in writing, in such form and including such further information as
the scheme manager requires; and

22.6.b

before the end of the immediate choice election period in relation to the
member.

22.7

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to the member or designated
person—

22.7.a

of the amount of compensation (if any) to which the member is entitled under
this regulation;

22.7.b

if paragraph (3) applies to or in respect of the member, of the member’s or
designated person’s right to make a claim in accordance with paragraph (5);
and

22.7.c

if paragraph (4) applies to or in respect of the member, of the member’s or
designated person’s right to make a claim in accordance with paragraph (6).

22.8

The scheme manager must send any notice referred to in paragraph (7) to the
member or designated person when the scheme manager provides the first
remediable service statement in respect of the member under regulation 6
(remediable service statements).

22.9

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), the amount of compensation must be equal
to the buy-out contributions paid during the remedy period by the member
reduced by tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with paragraphs (5) to
(8) of direction 5 of the 2023 Directions and, if relevant, paragraphs (11)
and (12) of that direction.

#### Remedial arrangements to pay voluntary contributions to secure legacy scheme additional pension


23

23.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) who is not a deceased
member.

23.2

M may elect to enter into an arrangement (a “remedial arrangement”) to pay
contributions for additional pension under the legacy scheme in accordance
with this regulation and—

23.2.a

1995 regulation 73A or 1995 regulation 73C, or

23.2.b

2008 regulation 34, 2008 regulation 36, 2008 regulation 165 or 2008 regulation
167.

23.3

M may only enter into a remedial arrangement—

23.3.a

in respect of a period of M’s remediable service;

23.3.b

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for an actual or anticipated relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule , M
would, during that period, have entered into the same or a similar
arrangement;

23.3.c

before—

23.3.c.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

23.3.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case; and

23.3.d

after making an application in accordance with paragraph (4).

23.4

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

23.4.a

it is in writing and in such form as the scheme manager determines;

23.4.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purposes of—

23.4.b.i

determining the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b);

23.4.b.ii

complying with any requirement imposed by 1995 regulation 73E, 2008 regulation
41 or 2008 regulation 169 in connection with exercising an option to make
contributions for additional pension; and

23.4.c

it is received by the scheme manager before—

23.4.c.i

the end of the period of six months beginning with the day on which a
remediable service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

23.4.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

23.5

The scheme manager may treat an application made in accordance with paragraph
(4) as if it were a notice under paragraph (1) of 1995 regulation 73E, 2008
regulation 38 or 2008 regulation 169.

23.6

Where M enters into a remedial arrangement, M owes to the scheme manager an
amount equal to—

23.6.a

the aggregate of the voluntary contributions which M would have owed had M
entered into the remedial arrangement at the time M would have entered into
the same or a similar arrangement but for a relevant breach of a non-
discrimination rule, less

23.6.b

tax relief amounts (if any) calculated in accordance with paragraphs (2) to
(6) and, if relevant, (9) and (10) of direction 12 of the 2023 Directions.

23.7

In this regulation—

      “ 1995 regulation 73E ” means regulation 73E of the 1995 Regulations
(Exercise of options under regulations 73A, 73C and 73D);           “ 2008
regulation 38 ” means regulation 38 of the 2008 Regulations (Exercise of
options under regulations 34, 36 and 37);           “ 2008 regulation 169 ”
means regulation 169 of the 2008 Regulations (Exercise of options under
regulations 165, 167 and 168).

#### Revocation of cancellation of arrangement or option to secure legacy scheme additional service or additional pension


24

24.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) who has cancelled—

24.1.a

an arrangement to pay for additional years of service by regular additional
contributions under 1995 regulation 72;

24.1.b

an option to purchase additional pension by the making of additional
periodical contributions under 1995 regulation 73A; or

24.1.c

an option to purchase additional pension by the making of additional
periodical contributions under 2008 regulation 34 or 2008 regulation 165.

24.2

M may revoke the cancellation of an arrangement or option referred to in
paragraph (1) with the effect that it is treated as if it had never been
cancelled.

24.3

The revocation referred to in paragraph (2) may only be made—

24.3.a

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for an actual or anticipated relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule, M
would not have made the decision to cancel the arrangement or option (whether
or not by virtue of opting out of the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme);

24.3.b

before—

24.3.b.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

24.3.b.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case; and

24.3.c

after making an application in accordance with paragraph (5).

24.4

The scheme manager must determine that the condition in respect of which the
scheme manager is required to be satisfied under paragraph (3)(a) has been met
where M cancelled an arrangement or option referred to in paragraph (1) at any
time between 1st October 2014 and 31st March 2022 (those dates inclusive).

24.5

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

24.5.a

it is in writing and in such form as the scheme manager determines;

24.5.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purpose of determining the matters mentioned in paragraph
(3)(a);

24.5.c

it is received by the scheme manager before—

24.5.c.i

the end of the period of six months beginning with the day on which a
remediable service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

24.5.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

24.6

Where M revokes the cancellation of an arrangement or option referred to in
paragraph (1), M must pay to the scheme an amount equal to—

24.6.a

the outstanding balance of voluntary contributions owed plus interest in
accordance with regulation 63, less

24.6.b

amounts representing tax relief calculated in accordance with direction 12(2)
to (7) of the 2023 Directions, as if the arrangement or option were a new
remedial voluntary contributions arrangement made by virtue of section 25(1)
of PSPJOA 2022.

24.7

Where the scheme manager makes a determination in accordance with direction
12(6) of the 2023 Directions, direction 12(8) (provision of explanation) and
(9) and (10) (appeals) apply.

24.8

In this regulation, “ 1995 regulation 72 ” means regulation 72 of the 1995
Regulations  (paying for additional service or unreduced retirement lump sum
by regular additional contributions).

### Divorce or the dissolution of a civil partnership


#### Interpretation of Part 5


25

In this Part—

      “ the 1999 Order ” means the Welfare Reform and Pensions (Northern
Ireland) Order 1999 ;           “ the 2000 Regulations ” means the Pensions on
Divorce etc. (Provision of Information) (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2000 ;
“ appropriate amount ” means the appropriate amount for the purposes of
paragraph (1) of article 26 of the 1999 Order (Creation of pension debits and
credits) determined in accordance with—         article 26(2) of the 1999
Order, or           article 26(3) of the 1999 Order but with the amount
specified to be transferred converted into a percentage using the formula—
(A x 100) / B       Where—                 “A” is the amount specified to be
transferred, and           “B” is the valuation of pension benefits at the
valuation day provided by the scheme manager;           “ operative time ”
means—         if an election under regulation 9 is made in relation to a
corresponding pension debit member’s remediable service, the time the election
is made or otherwise the end of the immediate choice election period;
if an election under regulation 12 is made in relation to a corresponding
pension debit member’s remediable service, the time the election is made or
otherwise the end of the deferred choice election period;                 “
remediable service shareable rights ” means the shareable rights of the remedy
member obtained by virtue of the remedy member’s remediable service during the
period beginning with 1st April 2015 and ending with the earlier of—
the day before the transfer day, and           the last day of the member’s
remediable service;                 “ shareable rights ” has the meaning given
in article 24(2) of the 1999 Order (scope of mechanism);           “ transfer
day ” has the meaning given in article 26(8) of the 1999 Order;           “
valuation day ” has the meaning given in article 26(7) of the 1999 Order.

#### Pension debits: valuation of pension benefits before 1st October 2023: deferred choice members (immediate alternative debit of appropriate amount)


26

26.1

This regulation applies to a corresponding pension debit member  (“ DM ”)
where—

26.1.a

DM is a deferred choice member who has pensionable service under the legacy
scheme by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022;

26.1.b

before 1st October 2023, the scheme manager provided a valuation of benefits,
in respect of remediable service shareable rights, under regulation 3 of the
2000 Regulations  (Information about pensions on divorce or dissolution of a
civil partnership: valuation of pension benefits); and

26.1.c

on or after 1st April 2015, DM’s remediable service shareable rights became
subject to a debit of the appropriate amount under the 2015 scheme.

26.2

Where this regulation applies, all DM’s remediable service shareable rights
subject to a debit of the appropriate amount under the 2015 scheme—

26.2.a

become a debit of the appropriate amount in the legacy scheme; and

26.2.b

must be adjusted by the scheme manager to a debit of equivalent value to a
debit of the appropriate amount that DM would have had in the legacy scheme on
the transfer day.

26.3

The scheme manager must make the adjustment referred to in paragraph (2)—

26.3.a

where the scheme manager discharged their liability under article 30(1) of the
1999 Order  (time for discharge of liability in respect of a pension credit)
before 1st October 2023—

26.3.a.i

before 1st July 2024, or

26.3.a.ii

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case, or

26.3.b

as soon as reasonably practicable after the day on which the scheme manager
discharges their liability under that section where the scheme manager does so
after 30th September 2023.

26.4

Where paragraph (3)(a) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice in
writing to DM specifying the adjusted debit of the appropriate amount under
the legacy scheme.

26.5

The scheme manager must send the notice to DM within one month of making the
adjustment under paragraph (2)(b).

#### Pension debits: valuation of pension benefits before 1st October 2023: immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and deceased members


27

27.1

This regulation applies to a corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”)
where—

27.1.a

DM is an immediate choice member or a remedy member who died before 1st
October 2023 , and

27.1.b

before that date, the scheme manager provided a valuation of benefits, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights, under regulation 3 of the 2000
Regulations (information about pensions on divorce or dissolution of a civil
partnership: valuation of pension benefits).

27.2

Paragraph (3) applies where—

27.2.a

DM or, where DM has died after the transfer day, the designated person makes
an immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under regulation 9
(election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and deceased
members) or such an election is treated by the scheme manager as having been
made in accordance with regulation 9(6);

27.2.b

DM has remediable service under the legacy scheme that is not pensionable
service by virtue of section 2(1) of the PSPJOA 2022; and

27.2.c

DM is subject to a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights—

27.2.c.i

at or before the operative time, or

27.2.c.ii

after the operative time.

27.3

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must adjust all DM’s debit of
the appropriate amount in the legacy scheme in respect of remediable service
shareable rights to a debit of equivalent value to a debit of the appropriate
amount that DM would have had under the 2015 scheme on the transfer day.

27.4

Paragraph (5) applies where—

27.4.a

DM or, where DM has died after the transfer day, the designated person makes
an immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under regulation 9 or
such an election is treated by the scheme manager as having been made in
accordance with regulation 9(6);

27.4.b

DM has remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable service
by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022; and

27.4.c

DM is subject to a debit of the appropriate amount in the 2015 scheme, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights, determined under article 26(2)
of the 1999 Order—

27.4.c.i

at or before the operative time, or

27.4.c.ii

after the operative time.

27.5

Where this paragraph applies, all DM’s debit of the appropriate amount under
the 2015 scheme in respect of remediable service shareable rights—

27.5.a

becomes a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme, and

27.5.b

must be treated by the scheme manager as a debit of equivalent value to a
debit of the appropriate amount that DM would have had under the 2015 scheme
on the transfer day.

27.6

Paragraphs (3) and (5) have effect—

27.6.a

where paragraph (2)(c)(i) or (4)(c)(i) applies, at the operative time;

27.6.b

where paragraph (2)(c)(ii) or (4)(c)(ii) applies, immediately after DM is
subject to a debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service
shareable rights, determined under article 26(2) of the 1999 Order; or

27.6.c

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

27.7

Where paragraph (2)(c)(ii) or 4(c)(ii) applies, the scheme manager must send a
notice to DM or, as the case may be, the designated person specifying the
equivalent debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service
shareable rights, under the legacy scheme that DM would have had under the
2015 scheme on the transfer day.

27.8

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (7) within one
month beginning with the day after paragraph (3) or (5) (whichever is
relevant) has effect in accordance with paragraph (6)(b) or (c).

#### Pension debits: valuation of pension benefits before 1st October 2023: no immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and deceased members


28

28.1

This regulation applies to a corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”)
where—

28.1.a

DM is an immediate choice member or a remedy member who died before 1st
October 2023 , and

28.1.b

before that date, the scheme manager provided a valuation of benefits, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights, under regulation 3 of the 2000
Regulations (information about pensions and divorce and dissolution of a civil
partnership: valuation of pension benefits).

28.2

Paragraph (3) applies where—

28.2.a

DM or, where DM has died after the transfer day, the designated person does
not make an immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under
regulation 9 before the end of the immediate choice election period and such
an election is not treated by the scheme manager as having been made in
accordance with regulation 9(6);

28.2.b

DM has remediable service in the legacy scheme that is pensionable service by
virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022; and

28.2.c

DM is subject to a debit of the appropriate amount under the 2015 scheme, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights determined under article 26(2)
of the 1999 Order—

28.2.c.i

at or before the operative time, or

28.2.c.ii

after the operative time,

28.3

Where this paragraph applies, all DM’s debit of the appropriate amount under
the 2015 scheme in respect of remediable service shareable rights—

28.3.a

becomes a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme; and

28.3.b

is adjusted to a debit of equivalent value to a debit of the appropriate
amount that DM would have had under the legacy scheme on the transfer day.

28.4

Paragraph (3) has effect—

28.4.a

at the operative time, where paragraph (2)(c)(i) applies; or

28.4.b

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

28.5

Where paragraph (2)(c)(ii) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice to
DM or, as the case may be, the designated person specifying the equivalent
debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable
rights, under the legacy scheme that DM would have had under the legacy scheme
on the transfer day.

28.6

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (5) within one
month beginning with the day after paragraph (3) has effect in accordance with
paragraph (4)(b).

#### Pension debits: deferred choice election for 2015 scheme benefits: deferred choice members


29

29.1

This regulation applies to a corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”)
where—

29.1.a

DM is a deferred choice member who has remediable service under the legacy
scheme that is pensionable service under that scheme whether or not by virtue
of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022;

29.1.b

under regulation 12, DM or, where DM has died after the transfer day, the
designated person makes a deferred choice election for 2015 scheme benefits or
such an election is treated by the scheme manager as having been made in
accordance with regulation 12(6); and

29.1.c

DM is subject to—

29.1.c.i

an adjustment to a debit of equivalent value to a debit of the appropriate
amount that DM would have had under the legacy scheme on the transfer day
under regulation 26(2);

29.1.c.ii

a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme, in respect of
remediable service shareable rights, determined under article 26(2) of the
1999 Order at or before the operative time; or

29.1.c.iii

a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme, in respect of
remediable service shareable rights after the operative time.

29.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must adjust all DM’s debit
of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme in respect of remediable
service shareable rights to an equivalent value to the debit of the
appropriate amount that DM would have had under the 2015 scheme on the
transfer day.

29.3

Paragraph (2) has effect—

29.3.a

where paragraph (1)(c)(i) or (ii) applies, at the operative time;

29.3.b

where paragraph (1)(c)(iii) applies, immediately after DM is subject to a
debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable
rights, determined under article 26(2) of the 1999 Order; or

29.3.c

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

29.4

Where paragraph (1)(c)(ii) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice to
DM or, as the case may be, the designated person specifying the equivalent
debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable
rights, under the legacy scheme that DM would have had under the 2015 scheme
on the transfer day.

29.5

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (4) to DM
within one month beginning with the day after paragraph (2) has effect in
accordance with paragraph (3)((b) or (c).

#### Valuation of pension benefits on or after 1st October 2023


30

30.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) where—

30.1.a

M is a deferred choice member or an immediate choice member; and

30.1.b

on or after 1 st  October 2023, the scheme manager receives a request in
writing for a valuation of pension benefits, under regulation 2 of the 2000
Regulations  (basic information about pensions and divorce or dissolution of a
civil partnership), in respect of M’s remediable service shareable rights.

30.2

Paragraph (3) applies where on the valuation day—

30.2.a

the scheme manager has not received an immediate choice election under
regulation 9 or a deferred choice election under regulation 12 in respect of
those rights; and

30.2.b

the immediate choice election period or the deferred choice election period
has not ended.

30.3

The scheme manager must determine—

30.3.a

an aggregated legacy scheme valuation of pension benefits in respect of—

30.3.a.i

non-remediable service shareable rights, and

30.3.a.ii

remediable service shareable rights; and

30.3.b

where relevant, a 2015 scheme valuation of pension benefits in respect of non-
remediable service shareable rights.

30.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(a)(ii), the scheme manager must determine
the legacy scheme valuation of pensions benefits as if M’s remediable service
on the valuation day were service under—

30.4.a

the legacy scheme;

30.4.b

the 2015 scheme.

30.5

The scheme manager must provide—

30.5.a

an aggregated legacy scheme valuation of pension benefits determined under
paragraph (3)(a) using the higher of the two valuations determined under
paragraph (4); and

30.5.b

where relevant, a 2015 scheme valuation of pension benefits determined under
paragraph (3)(b),

in accordance with regulation 2 of the 2000 Regulations.

30.6

Paragraph (7) applies where on the valuation day—

30.6.a

the scheme manager has received an immediate choice election under regulation
9 or a deferred choice election under regulation 12 in respect of those
rights; or

30.6.b

no such election has been received and the immediate choice election period or
the deferred choice election period has ended.

30.7

The scheme manager must determine the legacy scheme valuation of pension
benefits in paragraph (3)(a)(ii), as if the M’s remediable service on the
valuation day were service under—

30.7.a

the legacy scheme, where—

30.7.a.i

the scheme manager has not received an immediate choice election for 2015
scheme benefits under regulation 9 or a deferred choice election for 2015
scheme benefits under regulation 12 by the end of the immediate choice
election period or the deferred choice election period (whichever is
relevant), and

30.7.a.ii

such an election is not treated as having been made in accordance with
regulation 9(6) or regulation 12(6) (whichever is relevant); or

30.7.b

the 2015 scheme, where—

30.7.b.i

the scheme manager has received an immediate choice election for 2015 scheme
benefits under regulation 9 or a deferred choice election under regulation 12
(whichever is relevant), or

30.7.b.ii

such an election is treated by the scheme manager as having been made in
accordance with regulation 9((6) or 12(6) (whichever is relevant).

30.8

In this regulation, “ non-remediable service shareable rights ” means the
shareable rights of a remedy member that are not remediable service shareable
rights on the day before the transfer day.

#### Pension debits: valuation of pension benefits on or after 1st October 2023: immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members


31

31.1

This regulation applies to a corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”)
where—

31.1.a

DM is an immediate choice member; and

31.1.b

on or after 1 st  October 2023, the scheme manager provides an aggregated
legacy scheme valuation of pension benefits determined under regulation
30(3)(a) taking into account the higher of the two valuations determined under
regulation 30(4).

31.2

Paragraph (3) applies where—

31.2.a

DM or, where DM has died after the transfer day, the designated person makes
an immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under regulation 9
(election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and deceased
members) or such a choice is treated by the scheme manager as having been made
in accordance with regulation 9(6); and

31.2.b

DM is subject to a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights, determined under article 26(2)
of the 1999 Order (creation of pension debits and credits)—

31.2.b.i

at or before the operative time, or

31.2.b.ii

after the operative time.

31.3

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must adjust all DM’s debit of
the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme in respect of remediable
service shareable rights to a debit of equivalent value to a debit of the
appropriate amount that DM would have had under the 2015 scheme on the
transfer day.

31.4

Paragraph (3) has effect—

31.4.a

where paragraph (2)(b)(i) applies, at the operative time;

31.4.b

where paragraph (2)(b)(ii) applies, immediately after DM is subject to a debit
of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable rights,
determined under article 26(2) of the 1999 Order; or

31.4.c

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

31.5

Where paragraph (2)(b)(ii) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice to
DM or, as the case may be, the designated person specifying the equivalent
debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable
rights, under the legacy scheme, that DM would have had under the 2015 scheme
on the transfer day.

31.6

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (5) within one
month beginning with the day after paragraph (3) has effect in accordance with
paragraph (4)(b) or (c).

#### Pension debits: valuation of pension benefits on or after 1st October 2023: no immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members


32

32.1

This regulation applies to a corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”)
where—

32.1.a

DM is an immediate choice member; and

32.1.b

on or after 1 st  October 2023, the scheme manager provides an aggregated
legacy scheme valuation of pension benefits determined under regulation
30(3)(a) taking into account the higher of the two valuations determined under
regulation 30(4).

32.2

Paragraph (3) applies where—

32.2.a

DM or, where DM has died after the transfer day, the designated person does
not make an immediate choice election for 2015 scheme benefits under
regulation 9 (election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and
deceased members) before the end of the immediate choice election period and
such an election is not treated by the scheme manager as having been made in
accordance with regulation 9(6); and

32.2.b

DM is subject to a debit of the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme, in
respect of remediable service shareable rights, determined under article 26(2)
of the 1999 Order (creation of pension debits and credits)—

32.2.b.i

at or before the operative time, or

32.2.b.ii

after the operative time.

32.3

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must adjust all DM’s debit of
the appropriate amount under the legacy scheme in respect of remediable
service shareable rights to a debit of equivalent value to a debit of the
appropriate amount that DM would have had under the legacy scheme on the
transfer day.

32.4

Paragraph (3) has effect—

32.4.a

where paragraph (2)(b)(i) applies, at the operative time;

32.4.b

where paragraph (2)(b)(ii) applies, immediately after DM is subject to a debit
of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable rights,
determined under article 26(2) of the 1999 Order; or

32.4.c

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

32.5

Where paragraph (2)(b)(ii) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice to
DM or, as the case may be, the designated person specifying the equivalent
debit of the appropriate amount, in respect of remediable service shareable
rights, under the legacy scheme, that DM would have had under the legacy
scheme on the transfer day.

32.6

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (5) within one
month beginning with the day after paragraph (3) has effect in accordance with
paragraph (4)(b) or (c).

#### Pension credits: valuation of pension benefits before 1st October 2023: pension credit adjustment: remediable service shareable rights under the legacy scheme only or the 2015 scheme only


33

33.1

This regulation applies to a relevant pension credit member  (“ CM ”) where—

33.1.a

before 1 st  October 2023, the scheme manager provided a valuation of
benefits, in respect of remediable service (shareable rights of the
corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”), under regulation 3 of the 2000
Regulations(basic information about pensions and divorce or dissolution of a
civil partnership); and

33.1.b

in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable rights, CM has a pension
credit  solely under—

33.1.b.i

the legacy scheme, or

33.1.b.ii

the 2015 scheme.

33.2

Paragraphs (3) and (4) apply where CM has a pension credit, in respect of DM’s
remediable service shareable rights, under the legacy scheme.

33.3

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager, after having regard to the
advice of the scheme actuary, must determine a valuation, in respect of DM’s
remediable service shareable rights, as though DM’s remediable service the day
before the transfer day had been under the 2015 scheme.

33.4

Where—

33.4.a

the valuation of pension benefits determined under paragraph (3) is greater
than

33.4.b

the valuation of pension benefits, in respect of DM’s remediable service
shareable rights under the 2015 scheme before the transfer day,

the scheme manager, after having regard to the advice of the scheme actuary,
must adjust CM’s legacy scheme pension credit to take account of the
difference between the valuations referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b).

33.5

Paragraphs (6) and (7) apply where CM has a pension credit, in respect of DM’s
remediable service shareable rights in the 2015 scheme but does not have a
pension credit, in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable rights, under
the legacy scheme.

33.6

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager, after having regard to the
advice of the scheme actuary, must determine a valuation of pension benefits,
in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable rights, as though DM’s
remediable service the day before the transfer day had been under the legacy
scheme.

33.7

Where—

33.7.a

the valuation of pension benefits determined under paragraph (6) is greater
than

33.7.b

the valuation of pension benefits, in respect of DM’s remediable service
shareable rights under the legacy scheme before the transfer day,

the scheme manager, after having regard to the advice of the scheme actuary,
must adjust CM’s 2015 scheme pension credit to take account of the difference
between the valuations referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b).

33.8

An adjustment made under paragraph (4) or (7) has effect as though it had been
made on the transfer day.

33.9

The scheme manager must make the adjustment referred to in paragraph (4) or
(7) (whichever is relevant)—

33.9.a

where the scheme manager discharged their liability under article 30(1) of the
1999 Order (time for discharge of liability in respect of a pension credit)
before 1st October 2023—

33.9.a.i

before 1st October 2024, or

33.9.a.ii

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case; or

33.9.b

as soon as reasonably practicable after the day on which the scheme manager
discharges their liability under that article, where the scheme manager does
so after 30th September 2023.

33.10

Where paragraph (9) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice in writing
to CM specifying—

33.10.a

the adjusted pension credit; and

33.10.b

in which scheme the adjusted pension credit is retained.

33.11

The scheme manager must send the notice referred to in paragraph (10) to CM
within one month beginning with the day after the day on which the scheme
manager made the adjustment under paragraph (4) or (7).

#### Pension credits: valuation of pension benefits before 1st October 2023: pension credit adjustment: remediable service shareable rights under the legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme


34

34.1

This regulation applies to a relevant pension credit member (“ CM ”) where—

34.1.a

before 1st October 2023, the scheme manager provided a valuation of benefits,
in respect of remediable service shareable rights of the corresponding pension
debit member (“ DM ”), under regulation 3 of the 2000 Regulations  (basic
information about pensions on divorce or dissolution of a civil partnership),;
and

34.1.b

in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable rights, CM has a pension
credit under the legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme.

34.2

Where this regulation applies, CM’s pension credit in respect of DM’s
remediable service shareable rights must, by virtue of section 19(5) of PSPJOA
2022, be retained solely under the legacy scheme or solely under the 2015
scheme.

34.3

The scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the scheme
actuary, determine—

34.3.a

a valuation of pension benefits, in respect of DM’s remediable service
shareable rights and the legacy scheme corresponding pension credit, under
article 26(1) of the 1999 Order (creation of pension debits and credits), as
though all DM’s remediable service before the transfer day were pensionable
service under the legacy scheme; and

34.3.b

a valuation of pension benefits, in respect of DM’s remediable service
shareable rights, and the 2015 scheme corresponding pension credit, under
article 26(1) of the 1999 Order, as though all DM’s remediable service before
the transfer day were pensionable service under the 2015 scheme.

34.4

CM must make an election to identify clearly one of the pension credits, in
respect of DM’s remediable service shareable rights, determined under
paragraph (3).

34.5

The election referred to in paragraph (4) must—

34.5.a

be made by CM in writing;

34.5.b

be received by the scheme manager within a period—

34.5.b.i

of three months, beginning with the day after the scheme manager provides the
notice referred to in paragraph (6), or

34.5.b.ii

that the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case; and

34.5.c

contain such information as the scheme manager requires.

34.6

The scheme manager must inform CM of the right to make an election under
paragraph (5) in a notice in writing to CM—

34.6.a

where the scheme manager discharged their liability under article 30(1) of the
1999 Order (time for discharge of liability in respect of a pension credit)
before 1st October 2023—

34.6.a.i

before 1st October 2024, or

34.6.a.ii

on such later date as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case; or

34.6.b

as soon as reasonably practicable after the day on which the scheme manager
discharges their liability under that article, where the scheme manager does
so after 30th September 2023.

34.7

The notice referred to in paragraph (6) must specify—

34.7.a

the valuation of pension benefits and corresponding pension credits calculated
by the scheme manager, determined under paragraph (3);

34.7.b

the date by which an election under this regulation must be received by the
scheme manager; and

34.7.c

that the election is irrevocable.

34.8

Where the scheme manager accepts such an election—

34.8.a

the adjusted pension credit, in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable
rights, is retained under whichever of the legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme
CM identified in the election; and

34.8.b

any pension credit, in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable rights, is
extinguished under whichever of the legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme CM did
not identify in the election.

34.9

The pension credit—

34.9.a

retained under paragraph (8)(a) has effect as though it had been retained
under that scheme on the transfer day;

34.9.b

extinguished under paragraph (8)(b) has effect as though it had been
extinguished under that scheme on the transfer day.

34.10

The personal representatives of CM may make an election under paragraph (4)
where CM dies before making such an election.

34.11

Where the scheme manager does not receive an election within the period
specified in paragraph (5)(b), the adjusted pension credit, in respect of DM’s
remediable service shareable rights, must be retained under whichever of the
legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme the scheme manager, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, deems would be most beneficial to CM.

34.12

Where paragraph (8) or (11) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice in
writing to CM or, as the case may be, CM’s personal representatives
specifying—

34.12.a

the adjusted pension credit, in respect of DM’s remediable service shareable
rights;

34.12.b

in which scheme that adjusted pension credit is retained;

34.12.c

details of the pension credit that is extinguished under paragraph (9)(b).

34.13

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (12) within one
month beginning with the day after the day on which the scheme manager accepts
an election under paragraph (8).

#### Pension credits: pensioner and deceased relevant pension credit members


35

35.1

This regulation applies where the relevant pension credit member (“ CM ”)—

35.1.a

was entitled to a pension derived from the member’s pension credit rights
before—

35.1.a.i

the adjustment is made under regulation 33(4) or (7), or

35.1.a.ii

receiving the notice sent by the scheme manager under regulation 34(6); or

35.1.b

is a deceased member, where the personal representatives of CM make an
election under regulation 34(10).

35.2

Where this regulation applies, subsections (3) to (8) of section 14 of PSPJOA
2022 apply in relation to CM as they apply in relation to a relevant member (“
M ”) described in subsection (1) of that section with the following
modifications—

35.2.a

the references to “M’s remediable service in the employment or office” in
subsections (3)(a) and (5)(a) are to be read as references to CM’s pension
credit;

35.2.b

the references to “sections 2(1) and 6(4) and (5)” in subsections (3)(b) and
(5)(b) are to be read as regulation 35 of the Health and Social Care Pension
Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023;

35.2.c

the references to “the service” in subsections (3)(b) and (5)(b) are to be
read as references to CM’s pension credit; and

35.2.d

the term “the operative time” is to be read as meaning the time at which—

35.2.d.i

the adjustment mentioned in regulation 33(4) or 33(7) of the Health and Social
Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
has effect, or

35.2.d.ii

the pension credit mentioned in regulation 34(8)(a) of the Health and Social
Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
has effect.

#### Pension credits: valuation of pension benefits on or after 1st October 2023: creation of a pension credit


36

36.1

This regulation applies to a relevant pension credit member(a) (“ CM ”) where—

36.1.a

on or after 1st October 2023, the scheme manager provided an aggregated legacy
scheme valuation of pension benefits, determined under regulation 30(3)(a) and
taking into account the higher of the two valuations determined under
regulation 30(4); and

36.1.b

the corresponding pension debit member (“ DM ”) is subject to a debit under
the legacy scheme of the appropriate amount in respect of remediable service
shareable rights).

36.2

Where this regulation applies the scheme manager, having regard to the advice
of the scheme actuary, must determine the corresponding pension credit under
the legacy scheme in accordance with article 26(1) of the 1999 Act, by means
of the aggregated legacy scheme valuation referred to in paragraph (1)(a),
which is recalculated to the day before the transfer day.

36.3

Where paragraph (2) applies, the scheme manager must send a notice in writing
to CM specifying the legacy scheme pension credit.

36.4

The scheme manager must send the notice mentioned in paragraph (3) to CM as
soon as reasonably practicable after the day on which the scheme manager
discharges their liability under article 30(1) of the 1999 Order (time for
discharge of liability in respect of a pension credit).

### Transfers


#### Interpretation of Part 6


37

37.1

In this Part—

      “ 1995 regulation 60 ” means regulation 60 of the 1995 Regulations
(Member’s right to transfer accrued rights to benefits to this Section of the
scheme);           “ 1995 regulation 62 ” means regulation 62 of the 1995
Regulations  (Transfers that are not made under the Public Sector Transfer
Arrangements);           “ 2008 regulation 101 ” means regulation 101 of the
2008 Regulations (Procedure for applications under regulation 100);
“ 2008 regulation 103 ” means regulation 103 of the 2008 Regulations
(Calculation of transferred–in pensionable service);“ 2008 regulation 228 ”
means regulation 228 of the 2008 Regulations (Procedure for applications under
regulation 227);           “ 2008 regulation 230 ” means regulation 230 of the
2008 Regulations  (Calculation of increase to pensionable earnings as the
result of a transfer–in);           “ 2015 regulation 142 ” means regulation
142 of the 2015 Regulations (Acceptance of transfer value payment);
“ 2015 scheme joining date ” means the date on which the member became
eligible to be an active member of the 2015 scheme for the purpose of
regulation 141(1)(c)(i) of the 2015 Regulations (Application procedure);
“ legacy scheme remediable cash equivalent ”, in relation to a member, means
the cash equivalent of rights in the legacy scheme used by the scheme manager
to acquire rights in the 2015 scheme under—         regulation 59A of the 1995
Regulations  (member’s right to transfer a preserved pension to the 2015
Scheme), or           regulation 108B or regulation 235B of the 2008
Regulations  (right to transfer a deferred pension to the 2015 Scheme),
so far as the cash equivalent relates to the member’s remediable rights;
“ receiving scheme ”, in relation to a remediable value, means the scheme to
which the remediable value was, or is to be, paid;           “ reformed public
service pension scheme ” means—         a Chapter 1 scheme ;           a
judicial scheme within the meaning of section 70(1) of PSPJOA 2022;
a local government scheme within the meaning of section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022;
“ remediable benefits ” means the benefits payable to or in respect of a
member in relation to that member’s remediable service;           “ remediable
club transfer value ”, in relation to a member, means the payment or
acceptance by the scheme manager of—         a transfer value payment under
Part VI of the 1995 Regulations in accordance with the public sector transfer
arrangements (within the meaning given to that term by regulation 2 of those
Regulations);           a transfer value payment under Part 2 Chapter 6 of the
2008 Regulations (Transfers) in accordance with the public sector transfer
arrangements (within the meaning given to that term by regulation 6 of those
Regulations);           a transfer value payment under Part 3 Chapter 6 of the
2008 Regulations (Transfers) under the public sector transfer arrangements
(within the meaning given to that term by regulation 137 of those
Regulations);           a club transfer value under Part 7 of the 2015
Regulations (Transfers) (within the meaning given to that term by regulation
131 of those Regulations)         so far as the transfer value payment or
transfer value relates to the member’s remediable rights;           “
remediable rights ”, in relation to a member, means the member’s rights to
benefits under a reformed public service pension scheme secured by virtue of
the member’s remediable service;           “ remediable transfer value ”, in
relation to a member, means the payment or acceptance by the scheme manager of
a transfer value or transfer value payment other than—         a legacy scheme
remediable cash equivalent, or           a remediable club transfer value,
so far as the transfer value payment or transfer value relates to the member’s
remediable rights;           “ remediable value ” means a remediable club
transfer value or a remediable transfer value;           “ sending scheme ”,
in relation to a remediable value, means the scheme which paid, or is to pay,
the remediable value.

37.2

Where a provision of this Part requires the scheme manager to calculate a
transfer value (including a remediable value or a remediable transfer value)
in relation to rights secured in the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme, that
value must be calculated in accordance with—

37.2.a

the provisions of the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme which apply to the
calculation of values of that type; and

37.2.b

the guidance and tables provided for the purpose of calculating such values
that were, or are, in use on the date used for the original calculation.

#### Treatment of transfer and transfer value payments made to the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section that are not made under public sector transfer arrangements


38

38.1

This regulation applies to a relevant transfer member who has remediable
service under the legacy scheme where one of the following has occurred in
relation to that member—

38.1.a

an immediate choice election has been accepted by the scheme manager or
treated by the scheme manager as having been made in accordance with
regulation 9 (election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice members and
deceased members); or

38.1.b

a deferred choice election has been accepted by the scheme manager or treated
by the scheme manager as having been made in accordance of regulation 12
(Deferred choice election for 2015 scheme benefits: active, deferred and
deceased members).

38.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a member is a relevant transfer member if—

38.2.a

the scheme manager has accepted—

38.2.a.i

a transfer payment and in respect of that payment—

38.2.a.i.aa

the member is credited with a period of pensionable service calculated in
accordance with 1995 regulation 62, or

38.2.a.i.bb

the member is entitled to an increase in the member’s pensionable earnings in
accordance with paragraph 18 of Schedule 2 to the 1995 Regulations  (medical
and dental practitioners: transfers from other pension arrangements), or

38.2.a.ii

a transfer value payment and in respect of that payment—

38.2.a.ii.aa

the member is entitled to an additional period of pensionable service
calculated in accordance with paragraphs (1) to (4) of 2008 regulation 103, or

38.2.a.ii.bb

the member is entitled to count an increase in the member’s pensionable
earnings calculated in accordance with paragraphs (1) to (4) of 2008
regulation 230; and

38.2.b

the member’s legacy scheme joining date in relation to the transfer payment or
transfer value payment referred to in sub-paragraph (a) falls within the
period of that member’s remediable service.

38.3

Where this regulation applies and the scheme manager determines that the
benefits payable in respect of the member’s remediable service are 2015 scheme
benefits, the scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the
scheme actuary, vary the member’s rights to benefits in respect of the
additional period of pensionable service or increase in pensionable earnings
referred to in paragraph (2) so that those rights are of an equivalent value
to the rights the member would have secured if the transfer payment or
transfer value payment (whichever is relevant) had been accepted for the
purposes of 2015 regulation 142.

38.4

In this regulation, “ legacy scheme joining date ” means—

38.4.a

the date on which the member joined the 1995 Section for the purposes of
paragraph (1) of 1995 regulation 60; or

38.4.b

the date on which the member became eligible to be an active member of the
2008 Section for the purposes of paragraph (1)(c)(i) of 2008 regulation 101 or
paragraph (1)(c)(i) or 2008 regulation 228.

#### Transfer value payments made to the 2015 scheme that are not made under public sector transfer arrangements: treatment as transfer payments under the 1995 Section or transfer value payments under the 2008 Section: deferred choice members


39

39.1

This regulation applies to a deferred choice member who has remediable service
in the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under that scheme by virtue
of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, where—

39.1.a

the scheme manager has accepted a transfer value payment in relation to the
member that is a non-club transfer   for the purposes of 2015 regulation 142;

39.1.b

in respect of that payment, the member is entitled to an increase in the
member’s pensionable earnings and has been credited with a period of
pensionable service under paragraph (2) of that regulation; and

39.1.c

the member’s 2015 scheme joining date in relation to the transfer value
payment referred to in sub-paragraph (a) falls within the period of that
member’s remediable service.

39.2

Where this regulation applies—

39.2.a

all the remedy member’s rights secured by the transfer value payment mentioned
in paragraph (1) are extinguished;

39.2.b

the scheme manager must treat the payment as if it had been accepted for the
purposes of—

39.2.b.i

1995 regulation 62 where, pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy
member’s remediable service is treated as being pensionable service under the
1995 Section, or

39.2.b.ii

2008 regulation 103 or 2008 regulation 230 (whichever is relevant) where,
pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy member’s remediable
service is treated as being pensionable service under the 2008 Section; and

39.2.c

in respect of the payment, the member is entitled to count the additional
period of pensionable service or the increase in pensionable earnings set out
in paragraph (3) or (4) (whichever is relevant).

39.3

If the scheme manager treats the transfer value payment as if it had been
accepted for the purposes of the 1995 Regulations, in respect of the payment
the member is entitled to—

39.3.a

an additional period of pensionable service calculated in accordance with 1995
regulation 62; or

39.3.b

count an increase in the member’s pensionable earnings calculated in
accordance with paragraph 18 of Schedule 2 to the 1995 Regulations (medical
and dental practitioners: transfers from other pension arrangements).

39.4

If the scheme manager treats the transfer value payment as if it had been
accepted for the purposes of the 2008 Regulations, in respect of the payment
the member is entitled to—

39.4.a

an additional period of pensionable service calculated in accordance with
paragraphs (1) to (4) of 2008 regulation 103; or

39.4.b

count an increase in the member’s pensionable earnings calculated in
accordance with paragraphs (1) to (4) of 2008 regulation 230.

39.5

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to the remedy member
specifying the additional period of pensionable service or the increase in
pensionable earnings that the member is entitled to count as set out in
paragraph (3) or (4) (whichever is relevant).

39.6

The notice must be sent to the remedy member before 1st October 2024 or such
later date as the scheme manager determines, after having regard to all the
circumstances of the case.

#### Transfer value payments in accordance with regulation 39: variation of the member’s rights on the making of a deferred choice election


40

40.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member where—

40.1.a

the member is entitled to an additional period of pensionable service or an
increase in pensionable earnings in the 1995 Section under paragraph (3), or
in the 2008 Section under paragraph (4), of regulation 39; and

40.1.b

a deferred choice election has been accepted by the scheme manager or treated
as having been made in accordance with 12 (election for 2015 scheme benefits:
deferred choice members and deceased members).

40.2

Where this regulation applies and the scheme manager determines that the
benefits to be paid to or in respect of the remedy member for the member’s
remediable service are to be determined in accordance with the 2015
Regulations, the scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the
scheme actuary, vary the member’s rights to benefits in respect of the
additional period of pensionable service or increase in pensionable earnings
referred to in paragraph (1) so that those rights are of an equivalent value
to the rights the member would have secured if the transfer payment or
transfer value payment (whichever is relevant) had been accepted for the
purposes of 2015 regulation 142.

#### Transfer value payments made to the 2015 scheme that are not made under public sector transfer arrangements: treatment as if accepted under the legacy scheme: immediate choice members and deceased members


41

41.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member—

41.1.a

who has pensionable service under the legacy scheme by virtue of section 2(1)
of PSPJOA 2022;

41.1.b

who—

41.1.b.i

is an immediate choice member, or

41.1.b.ii

is a member who died before 1st October 2023;

41.1.c

in respect of whom—

41.1.c.i

an immediate choice election may be made or treated by the scheme manager as
having been made in accordance with regulation 9;

41.1.c.ii

the scheme manager has accepted a transfer value payment in relation to the
member that is a non-club transfer for the purposes of 2015 regulation 142
and, in respect of that payment, the member is entitled to an increase in the
member’s pensionable earnings and has been credited with a period of
pensionable service under paragraph (2) of that regulation; and

41.1.c.iii

the 2015 scheme joining date in relation to the transfer value payment
referred to in paragraph (ii) falls within the period of that member’s
remediable service.

41.2

Where this regulation applies, on the acceptance of an election referred to in
paragraph (1)(c)(i) in respect of a member or at the end of the immediate
choice election period if no such election is accepted—

41.2.a

all the remedy member’s rights secured by the transfer value payment mentioned
in paragraph (1)(c)(ii) are extinguished;

41.2.b

the scheme manager must treat the payment as if it had been accepted for the
purposes of—

41.2.b.i

1995 regulation 62 where, pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy
member’s remediable service is treated as being pensionable service under the
1995 Section, or

41.2.b.ii

2008 regulation 103 or 2008 regulation 230 (whichever is relevant) where,
pursuant to section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remedy member’s remediable
service is treated as being pensionable service under the 2008 Section;

41.2.c

in respect of the payment, the member is entitled to count the additional
period of pensionable service or the increase in pensionable earnings set out
in paragraph (3) or (4) (whichever is relevant); and

41.2.d

paragraph (5) applies if the scheme manager determines that the benefits
payable in respect of the member’s remediable service are 2015 scheme
benefits.

41.3

If the scheme manager treats the transfer value payment as if it had been
accepted for the purposes of the 1995 Regulations, in respect of the payment
the member is entitled to—

41.3.a

an additional period of pensionable service calculated in accordance with 1995
regulation 62; or

41.3.b

count an increase in the member’s pensionable earnings in respect of the
payment calculated in accordance with paragraph 18 of Schedule 2 to the 1995
Regulations.

41.4

If the scheme manager treats the transfer value payment as if it had been
accepted for the purposes of the 2008 Regulations, in respect of the payment
the member is entitled to—

41.4.a

an additional period of pensionable service calculated in accordance with
paragraphs (1) to (4) of 2008 regulation 103; or

41.4.b

count an increase in the member’s pensionable earnings in respect of the
payment calculated in accordance with paragraphs (1) to (4) of 2008 regulation
230.

41.5

Where this paragraph applies (see paragraph (2)(d)), the scheme manager must,
after having regard to the advice of the scheme actuary, vary the member’s
rights to benefits in respect of the additional period of pensionable service
or increase in pensionable earnings referred to in paragraph (3) or (4)
(whichever is relevant) so that those rights are of an equivalent value to the
rights the member would have secured if the transfer payment or transfer value
payment (whichever is relevant) had been accepted for the purposes of 2015
regulation 142.

#### Treatment of transfer and transfer value payments and statements accepted from other and corresponding health service schemes


42

42.1

This regulation applies to a member who—

42.1.a

is credited with a period of pensionable service (together with the rights
attaching to that service) in accordance with regulation 81(2) or (6) of the
1995 Regulations (former members of health service schemes) in respect of a
transfer payment made by a health service scheme;

42.1.b

is entitled to count a period of pensionable service in accordance with
paragraph (6) of 2008 regulation 103 or entitled to count an increase in
pensionable earnings in accordance with paragraph (6) of 2008 regulation 230
in respect of a transfer value payment made by a corresponding 2008 scheme; or

42.1.c

is entitled to count an increase in pensionable earnings in accordance with
regulation 143(5) of the 2015 Regulations (calculation of increase to
pensionable earnings) in respect of a transfer value statement accepted from a
corresponding scheme.

42.2

Where this regulation applies and the scheme manager determines that the
payment or transfer value statement referred to in paragraph (1) represents
any rights in respect of a period of pensionable service that is remediable
service under another health service scheme, a corresponding 2008 scheme or a
corresponding scheme, the scheme manager must treat that period of pensionable
service as a period of pensionable service that is remediable service under
the 1995 Section, the 2008 Section or the 2015 scheme (whichever is relevant).

42.3

In this regulation—

      “ corresponding 2008 scheme ” means a scheme as so defined in regulation
6(1) and regulation 137(1) of the 2008 Regulations;           “ corresponding
scheme ” means a scheme as so defined in Schedule 13 to the 2015 Regulations
2015;           “ health service scheme ” means a scheme as so defined in
regulation 81(1) of the 1995 Regulations.

#### Transferred out remediable service statements


43

Where a remedy member has transferred any rights in respect of remediable
service out of the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme, the scheme manager must
provide a transferred out remediable service statement in accordance with
direction 6(2) to (4) of the 2023 Directions (transfers) (and direction 6(4)
applies as if the reference to “any provision made by virtue of section 29(1)
of PSPJOA 2022” were a reference to regulation 6).

#### Remediable transfer value payments made before 1st October 2023


44

44.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager paid a remediable transfer value before 1st October 2023.

44.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, calculate the transfer value of M’s
remediable rights as if they had been secured in—

44.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

44.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

44.3

The scheme manager must notify the receiving scheme of the results of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

44.4

Where—

44.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“x”) is greater
than

44.4.b

the amount of the remediable transfer value (“y”),

the scheme manager must take reasonable steps to pay the receiving scheme an
amount equal to x – y (“top-up transfer value payment”).

44.5

Where the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“x”) is less
than the amount of the remediable transfer value (“y”), the scheme manager
must waive any overpayment.

44.6

A top-up transfer value payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the
same conditions as the remediable transfer value.

44.7

Where a receiving scheme, other than a reformed public service scheme, cannot
accept the top-up transfer value payment, the scheme manager may—

44.7.a

pay the top-up transfer value payment to another nominated registered pension
scheme; or

44.7.b

pay an amount of compensation to M reduced (where relevant) in accordance with
direction 6(5) of the 2023 Directions.

44.8

Where, if the amount of compensation under paragraph (7)(b) had been paid
immediately after the requirement to pay it arose, the payment—

44.8.a

would have been a payment described in regulation 6 of the Registered Pension
Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009  (“ the 2009 Regulations ”)
(payment after relevant accretion) read as if paragraph (1)(a) of that
regulation had been omitted, the amount of compensation must be reduced by the
amount equal to the income tax that would be chargeable on it as if regulation
3(b) of the 2009 Regulations applied to it;

44.8.b

would not have been a payment so described, the amount of compensation must be
reduced by an amount equal to the income tax that would be charged on the
amount at M’s marginal tax rate under The Income Tax Acts .

44.9

In this regulation, a “ nominated registered pension scheme ” means a pension
scheme registered under Chapter 2 of Part 4 of the 2004 Act, that—

44.9.a

is chosen by M;

44.9.b

agrees to accept the top-up transfer value payment; and

44.9.c

meets such other conditions as the scheme manager may require.

#### Remediable transfer value payments made on or after 1st October 2023 that are not made under public sector transfer arrangements


45

45.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager makes a remediable transfer value payment on or after 1st
October 2023.

45.2

Where this regulation applies. the scheme manager must, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, calculate the transfer value of M’s
remediable rights as if they had been secured in—

45.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

45.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

45.3

The amount of the remediable transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

#### Transfers of remediable rights in the legacy scheme to the 2015 scheme before 1st October 2023


46

46.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager has used a legacy scheme remediable cash equivalent to acquire
rights in the 2015 scheme before 1st October 2023.

46.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, recalculate the cash equivalent of M’s
remediable rights as if they had been secured in—

46.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

46.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

46.3

Where—

46.3.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“x”) is greater
than

46.3.b

the legacy scheme remediable cash equivalent (“y”),

the scheme manager must, after having regard to the advice of the scheme
actuary, use an amount equal to x – y to acquire further rights in the 2015
scheme in respect of M on the same terms as applied when M’s legacy scheme
remediable cash equivalent was used to acquire rights in the 2015 scheme.

#### Transfers of remediable rights in the legacy scheme to the 2015 scheme on or after 1st October 2023


47

47.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager uses a legacy scheme remediable cash equivalent to acquire
rights in the 2015 scheme on or after 1st October 2023.

47.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, calculate the cash equivalent of M’s
remediable rights as if they had been secured in—

47.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

47.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

47.3

The amount of the legacy scheme remediable cash equivalent used to acquire
rights in the 2015 scheme in respect of M is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

#### Remediable transfer value payments accepted from other public service schemes but not accepted under the public sector transfer arrangements


48

48.1

This regulation applies in relation to each payment of a remediable transfer
value accepted the by the scheme manager in respect of a member (“ M ”).

48.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must, after having regard to
the advice of the scheme actuary, determine M’s remediable benefits if the
transfer value payment or transfer value, together with any adjustment payment
accepted under paragraph (3), is applied in respect of rights in—

48.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

48.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

48.3

Where the remediable transfer value payment was accepted by the scheme manager
before 1st October 2023 and the sending scheme is a reformed public service
pension scheme, the scheme manager may accept an adjustment in the value of a
remediable transfer value—

48.3.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable transfer value
payment relates; and

48.3.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

48.4

An adjustment payment accepted under paragraph (3) must be used for the
purpose of determining M’s benefits under the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme
on the same terms as the remediable transfer value.

#### Remediable club transfer value payments made before 1st October 2023


49

49.1

This regulation applies in relation to each member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
the scheme manager paid a remediable club transfer value before 1st October
2023.

49.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must calculate the transfer
value of M’s remediable rights as if they had been secured in—

49.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

49.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

49.3

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme—

49.3.a

the result of the calculations mentioned in paragraph (2); and

49.3.b

such further information as the receiving scheme may require in relation to
M’s remediable rights.

49.4

Where the receiving scheme is a local government pension scheme (within the
meaning of section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022), and—

49.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“x”) is greater
than

49.4.b

the amount of the remediable club transfer value (“y”),

the scheme manager must pay the receiving scheme an amount equal to x – y.

49.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable club transfer value.

#### Remediable club transfer value payments made on or after 1st October 2023


50

50.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager is to make a remediable club transfer value payment on or after
1st October 2023.

50.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must calculate the transfer
value of M’s remediable rights as if they had been secured in—

50.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

50.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

50.3

The amount of the remediable club transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

50.4

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme—

50.4.a

the result of the calculations mentioned in paragraph (2); and

50.4.b

such further information as the receiving scheme may require in relation to
M’s remediable rights.

#### Remediable club transfer value payments accepted before 1st October 2023


51

51.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager accepts a remediable club transfer value payment before 1st
October 2023.

51.2

Where this regulation applies and the sending scheme is a local government
pension scheme (within the meaning of section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022), the
scheme manager may accept an adjustment in the value of a remediable club
transfer value—

51.2.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable club transfer
value payment relates; and

51.2.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

51.3

The scheme manager must determine M’s remediable benefits if the transfer
value, together with any payment adjustment accepted under paragraph (2), were
applied in respect of rights secured in—

51.3.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

51.3.b

the 2015 scheme.

#### Remediable club transfer value payments accepted on or after 1st October 2023


52

52.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager has accepted a remediable club transfer value payment on or
after 1st October 2023.

52.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must determine M’s
remediable benefits as if the remediable club transfer value payments were
applied in respect of rights secured in—

52.2.a

the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section (whichever is relevant);

52.2.b

the 2015 scheme.

#### Application and interpretation of regulations 54 to 56


53

53.1

Regulations 54 to 56 apply in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
the scheme manager has accepted either or both of the following—

53.1.a

a remediable transfer value payment, together with any adjustment payment
accepted under regulation 48(3);

53.1.b

a remediable club transfer value payment, together with any adjustment payment
accepted under regulation 51(2).

53.2

In regulations 54 to 56—

      “ relevant Section of the legacy scheme ” means—         the 1995
Section if M has pensionable service under that Section;           the 2008
Section if M has pensionable service under that Section;           otherwise,
the 2008 Section;                 “ transferred in remediable rights ” means
M’s remediable rights in the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme secured by
virtue of a remediable value together with any payment or, as the case may be,
adjustment under regulation 48(3) or regulation 51(2).

#### Transferred in remediable rights treated as rights under the legacy scheme


54

54.1

Where this regulation applies (see regulation 53) and the transferred in
remediable rights of a member (“ M ”) would, apart from this regulation, be
rights to benefits under the 2015 scheme, the rights—

54.1.a

are not, and are treated as never having been, rights under the 2015 scheme;
and

54.1.b

are treated as being, and as always having been, rights under the relevant
Section of the legacy scheme.

54.2

Paragraph (1) has effect—

54.2.a

for the purposes of determining which Section of the legacy scheme is (or at
any time was) required to pay benefits to or in respect of M’s transferred in
remediable rights; and

54.2.b

subject to regulation 56, for all other purposes.

#### Varying the value of benefits secured by virtue of transferred in remediable rights


55

55.1

Where this regulation applies (see regulation 53) and—

55.1.a

a member is a deferred choice member; and

55.1.b

the member’s transferred in remediable rights are treated as rights to
benefits under the relevant Section of the legacy scheme by virtue of
regulation 54,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights the member would have secured under the relevant
Section of the legacy scheme if the rights had been transferred into that
Section.

55.2

A variation under paragraph (1) is to be treated as having taken effect on 1
st  October 2023.

55.3

Where this regulation applies and—

55.3.a

a member is an immediate choice member or a remedy member who died before 1st
October 2023;

55.3.b

the end of the immediate choice election period has passed in relation to the
member and no election has been made (or treated by the scheme manager as
having been made) under regulation 9 in relation to the member’s remediable
service; and

55.3.c

the member’s transferred in remediable rights are treated as rights to
benefits under the relevant Section of the legacy scheme by virtue of
regulation 54,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to the rights the member would have secured under the
relevant Section of the legacy scheme if the rights had been transferred into
that Section.

55.4

A variation under paragraph (3) is to be treated as having taken effect at the
end of the immediate choice election period.

55.5

Where this regulation applies and—

55.5.a

the benefits payable to or in respect of the member’s remediable service are
2015 scheme benefits by virtue of an immediate choice election under
regulation 9 or a deferred choice election under regulation 12 (including such
an election which the scheme manger treats as having been made under either of
those regulations); and

55.5.b

the benefits payable in relation to the member’s transferred in remediable
rights would otherwise be benefits in the relevant Section of the legacy
scheme,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights the member would have secured under the 2015 scheme
if the rights had been transferred into that scheme.

55.6

Where the scheme manager is required to vary the value of any rights under
this regulation so that they are equivalent to rights that would have been
secured in another scheme (“ the alternative scheme ”), the scheme manager
must, after having regard to the advice of the scheme actuary, calculate the
value of the varied rights as if the remediable transfer value which
originally secured the rights had been paid to the alternative scheme or
Section of the scheme in the scheme year the payment was received by the
scheme manager.

55.7

In paragraph (6), “ scheme year ” means a period of one year beginning on 1st
April and ending with 31st March.

#### Benefits already paid in relation to transferred in remediable rights


56

56.1

Where this regulation applies (see regulation 53), paragraph (2) applies in
relation to any benefits (“the paid benefits”) that have at any time been paid
to a person (“ P ”) from the 2015 scheme so far as—

56.1.a

they are calculated by reference to P’s, or any other person’s, transferred in
remediable rights; and

56.1.b

they are benefits that, as a result of regulation 54(1)(a), P was not entitled
to receive from the 2015 scheme.

56.2

The paid benefits are to be treated for all purposes—

56.2.a

as not having been paid to P by the 2015 scheme; but

56.2.b

as having been paid to P instead by the relevant Section of the legacy scheme.

### Taxation


#### Interpretation of Part 7


57

In this Part—

      “ 2023 Regulations ” means The Public Service Pension Schemes
(Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023 ;
“ annual allowance charge ” has the same meaning as in section 227(1) of the
2004 Act (annual allowance charge) ;           “ relevant rectification
provision ” has the same meaning as in regulation 2(1) of the 2023
Regulations.

#### Scheme administrator to be liable where private sector scheme administrator’s liability is discharged


58

58.1

This regulation applies in the circumstances described in paragraph (2) in
relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) who—

58.1.a

has remediable service in the legacy scheme that is pensionable service under
that scheme whether or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022; and

58.1.b

is an immediate choice member or a remedy member who died before 1st October
2023.

58.2

The circumstances are that—

58.2.a

before 1st October 2023, a benefit crystallisation event in accordance with
section 216 of the 2004 Act  (benefit crystallisation events and amounts
crystallised) occurred in connection with M’s entitlement to any benefits
under the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme;

58.2.b

a later benefit crystallisation event (“later BCE”) occurs in relation to M’s
entitlement to any benefits under a pension scheme that is not a pension
scheme for persons in public service (“private sector scheme”);

58.2.c

a lifetime allowance charge, or any part of such a charge, is charged in
connection with the later BCE that is attributable to a relevant rectification
provision; and

58.2.d

the scheme administrator of the private sector scheme makes a successful
application under section 267 of the 2004 Act (application for discharge of
scheme administrator’s liability for lifetime allowance charge) in respect of
their liability for the lifetime allowance charge, or part of such a charge.

58.3

The scheme administrator is jointly and severally liable in accordance with
regulation 36(3) of the 2023 Regulations (public service scheme to be liable
where private sector scheme discharged) for the lifetime allowance charge or
part of such a charge mentioned in paragraph (2)(d).

58.4

M’s present and future benefits must be reduced by an amount that fully
reflects the amount of the lifetime allowance charge, or part of such a
charge, paid by the scheme administrator and is to be calculated by reference
to advice provided by the scheme actuary for that purpose.

58.5

In this regulation—

      “ lifetime allowance charge ” has the same meaning as in section 214 of
the 2004 Act (lifetime allowance charge);           “ persons in public
service ” means the persons listed in section 1(2) of the Public Service
Pensions Act(Northern Ireland) 2014 .

#### Scheme pays


59

59.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”)—

59.1.a

who is not a deceased member;

59.1.b

who has remediable service under the legacy scheme that is pensionable under
that scheme whether or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022;

59.1.c

who has an annual allowance charge in one or more of the tax years 2019-20 to
2022-23 attributable to a relevant rectification provision; and

59.1.d

in respect of whom the time limit referred to in section 237BA of the 2004 Act
(time limit for notices under section 237B) has ended.

59.2

M may give notice in writing to the scheme administrator requesting that the
scheme administrator pay the annual allowance charge on behalf of the member.

59.3

Upon receipt of the notice mentioned in paragraph (2), the scheme
administrator must pay the annual allowance charge arising in that tax year.

59.4

M’s present or future benefits in respect of which that charge arises must be
adjusted in accordance with section 237E of the 2004 Act  (consequential
benefit adjustments to be reasonable etc) and must be calculated by reference
to advice provided by the scheme actuary for that purpose.

59.5

The scheme administrator must provide information to M in relation to the
process for making a request under paragraph (2) and the consequences of such
a request.

### Compensation


#### Applications for compensation or indirect compensation


60

60.1

Where paragraph (2) applies, the scheme manager may pay an amount by way of
compensation under section 23(1) of PSPJOA 2022 and in accordance with
direction 8 of the 2023 Directions, or an increase to benefits by way of
indirect compensation under regulation 61.

60.2

This paragraph applies where—

60.2.a

an application is made in accordance with direction 18(1) and (2) of the 2023
Directions;

60.2.b

the application is accompanied by such information as the scheme manager may
by written notice require a person to provide in relation to the compensation
which is—

60.2.b.i

information within the person’s possession, or

60.2.b.ii

information which the person may reasonably be expected to obtain; and

60.2.c

the scheme manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 18(3) of
the 2023 Directions.

60.3

The following apply in relation to a determination under direction 18(3) of
the 2023 Directions—

60.3.a

direction 18(4) (provision of explanation); and

60.3.b

direction 18(5) and (6) (appeals).

#### Indirect compensation


61

61.1

This regulation applies where pursuant to an application under regulation 60
the scheme manager determines that a person has incurred a compensatable loss
under section 23 of PSPJOA 2022 that is a Part 4 tax loss as defined in
subsection (9) of that section (“relevant loss”) and the relevant loss is a
reduction of benefit.

61.2

The relevant loss must not be paid by way of compensation under section 23 of
PSPJOA 2022.

61.3

Instead, the amount of benefits payable under the legacy scheme must be
increased to reflect the amount of the relevant loss in such manner as is
determined by the scheme manager in accordance with direction 10(2) to (4) of
the 2023 Directions.

### Interest and the payment, reduction or waiver of liabilities


#### Application and interpretation of Part 9


62

62.1

This Part applies in respect of relevant amounts (and any interest on them)
payable by a person to the legacy scheme or by that scheme to a person under
or by virtue of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022.

62.2

In this Part, a reference to a direction is a reference to that direction in
the 2023 Directions.

#### Interest and process


63

63.1

The scheme manager must calculate interest on any amount described in
direction 14 (interest: rates), 15 (interest: periods) or 16 (interest: other)
in accordance with the provisions of whichever of those 2023 Directions is
relevant to that amount.

63.2

Where an amount is described in paragraph (4), (5), (6), (7) or (8), the
scheme manager must calculate interest on it in accordance with that paragraph
(whichever is relevant).

63.3

Direction 14(6) applies where the rate of interest has varied during a period
for which interest is to be calculated.

63.4

Where amounts are owed under regulation 3, interest must be calculated and
applied in accordance with the 2023 Directions as if those amounts were owed
under section 16 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension contributions: active and deferred
members (immediate correction)).

63.5

Where amounts are owed under regulation 4, interest must be calculated and
applied in accordance with the 2023 Directions as if those amounts were owed
under section 15 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension contributions: pensioner and deceased
members).

63.6

Where amounts are owed under regulation 5, interest must be calculated and
applied in accordance with the 2023 Directions as if those amounts were owed
under section 17 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension contributions: active and deferred
members (deferred correction)).

63.7

Where amounts are owed under regulation 10, 13 or 35, interest must be
calculated and applied in accordance with the 2023 Directions as if those
amounts were owed under section 14 of PSPJOA 2022 (pension benefits and lump
sum benefits: pensioner and deceased members).

63.8

Where compensation is owed under regulation 18, that liability is waived by
virtue of regulation 18(3) and that waiver subsequently ceases to have effect,
interest must be calculated in the form and applied at the rate specified—

63.8.a

in direction 14(5) from the mid-point date described in direction 15(16) to
the date 28 days after a remediable service statement is first issued; and

63.8.b

in direction 14(4) from the date 29 days after a remediable service statement
is first issued to the date of payment.

#### Interest not payable under the 1995 Regulations or the 2008 Regulations


64

64.1

This regulation applies in respect of any relevant amount payable by the
legacy scheme to a person under or by virtue of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA
2022 where the scheme manager must calculate interest on that amount in
accordance with regulation 63.

64.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must treat the relevant
amount as if—

64.2.a

it is not a qualifying payment for the purposes of regulation 97(B) of the
1995 Regulations  (interest on late payment of benefits and refunds of
contributions); or

64.2.b

it is not an unpaid amount for the purposes of regulation 132 or regulation
256 of the 2008 Regulations  (interest on late payment of benefits and refunds
of contributions),

where it would be such a qualifying payment or unpaid amount but for this
regulation.

#### Netting off of liabilities


65

The scheme manager may net off relevant amounts (and any interest owed on
them) which are owed by the legacy scheme to a person or by a person to that
scheme (as the case may be) in accordance with direction 19 (process: netting
off).

#### Payments of amounts owed to the scheme


66

66.1

This regulation applies where a person (“ P ”) owes a net liability to the
legacy scheme after taking into account regulation 65.

66.2

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to P that the net liability
must be paid.

66.3

P must pay the amount of the net liability to the scheme manager—

66.3.a

on or before a date determined by the scheme manager as being reasonable after
having regard to all the circumstances of the case; or

66.3.b

in accordance with an agreement under paragraph (4).

66.4

P and the scheme manager may agree that the net liability is paid in part or
in full—

66.4.a

by instalments;

66.4.b

by way of deductions from any benefits (including a lump sum benefit) to which
P is entitled under the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme; or

66.4.c

by a combination of (a) and (b).

66.5

But where the net liability includes amounts owed as a consequence of an
election under regulation 8(1) (election for retrospective provision to apply
to opted-out service) and P is not a pensioner member, the scheme manager may
not agree that the net liability is paid in part or in full in accordance with
paragraph (4)(b) or (c).

66.6

P and the scheme manager may agree to vary an agreement made in accordance
with paragraph (4).

66.7

Where P does not pay the amount that P is required to pay under paragraph (3),
the scheme manager may, after providing notice in writing to P of such a
period as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the circumstances of
the case, deduct such sums from benefits payable to P from the legacy scheme
or the 2015 scheme as the scheme manager considers reasonable for the purpose
of discharging P’s liability.

#### Payments of amounts owed to a person


67

67.1

This regulation applies where the legacy scheme owes a net liability to a
person (“ P ”) after taking into account regulation 65.

67.2

The scheme manager must pay the amount of the net liability to P as soon as
reasonably practicable—

67.2.a

after the scheme manager determines the amount of the net liability; or

67.2.b

where the scheme manager requires P to make an application in accordance with
paragraph (3), after receipt of that application.

67.3

Before paying the amount of a net liability owed to P, the scheme manager may
by notice in writing require P to make an application which is—

67.3.a

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

67.3.b

accompanied by such information as the scheme manager may require—

67.3.b.i

which is within P’s possession, or

67.3.b.ii

which P may reasonably be expected to obtain; and

67.3.c

received by the scheme manager—

67.3.c.i

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the day after the
day on which the scheme manager sends the notice, or

67.3.c.ii

by such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

#### Power to reduce or waive amounts owed by a person to the legacy scheme


68

68.1

The scheme manager may reduce or waive an amount owed by a person to the
legacy scheme under these Regulations.

68.2

When, under paragraph (1), reducing or waiving an amount owed, the scheme
manager must—

68.2.a

have regard to the particular circumstances of the person;

68.2.b

apply a presumption in favour of recovering the amount owed by the person
unless it is uneconomic to recover it; and

68.2.c

have regard to whether, instead of or in addition to reducing or waiving the
liability, it is appropriate in the reasonable opinion of the scheme manager,
to exercise any powers exercisable by virtue of regulation 66.

68.3

In paragraph (2)(a), the particular circumstances that may be relevant include
those set out in direction 4(3).

### Revocation of election to convert pensionable service under the legacy scheme


#### Option to revoke election to convert pensionable service under the legacy scheme


69

69.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) who has made an election
under regulation 39 of the 2015 Transitional Regulations (Option for 1995
Section members to convert to 2008 Section membership).

69.2

M may revoke the election referred to in paragraph (1) with the effect that
M’s pensionable service for the purposes of the 1995 Section is treated as if
it were never such service for the purposes of the 2008 Section.

69.3

Where M may make an election under regulation 9 (election for 2015 scheme
benefits: immediate choice members and deceased members)—

69.3.a

the scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M of M’s right under
paragraph (2) on or before the relevant date referred to in regulation 6(2);

69.3.b

M must, if M decides to exercise that right, give the scheme manager notice in
writing of that decision—

69.3.b.i

within three months beginning with the day on which the scheme manager issued
the notice referred to in sub-paragraph (a), or

69.3.b.ii

by such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

69.4

Where M may make an election under regulation 12 (election for 2015 scheme
benefits: deferred choice members and deceased members)—

69.4.a

the scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M of M’s right under
paragraph (2) before 1st April 2024;

69.4.b

M must, if M decides to exercise that right, give the scheme manager notice in
writing of that decision—

69.4.b.i

within three months beginning with the day after the day on which the scheme
manager issued the notice referred to in sub-paragraph (a); or

69.4.b.ii

by such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

### Retirement pensions


#### Premature retirement in the interests of efficiency


70

70.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant member (“ M ”) who has
remediable service that is pensionable service under the legacy scheme whether
or not by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (“M’s remediable service”).

70.2

Where this regulation applies and the scheme manager accepts an immediate
choice election made in accordance with regulation 9 or a deferred choice
election made in accordance with regulation 12 and, as a result of that
election, the additional contribution due from the employing authority
increases, the scheme manager must waive that increase.

70.3

In paragraph (2), the additional contribution due from the employing authority
is the amount the scheme manager determines is required to meet the cost of
providing the pension in the 1995 Section or 2008 Section (whichever is
relevant).

70.4

In this regulation, “ relevant member ” means a member whose employment has
been or is terminated by M’s employing authority in accordance with—

70.4.a

regulation 14A of the 1995 Regulations  (early retirement pension (termination
of employment by employing authority));

70.4.b

or regulation 55 of the 2008 Regulations  (early retirement on termination of
employment by employing authority).

#### Premature retirement on grounds of redundancy


71

71.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant remedy member (“ M ”) where
M’s employing authority has made or makes a contribution to the scheme manager
in accordance with—

71.1.a

regulation 11 of the 1995 Regulations  (Contributions by employing
authorities);

71.1.b

regulation 32 of the 2008 Regulations  (Contributions by employing
authorities: members becoming entitled to pensions under regulation 55); or

71.1.c

regulation 34 of the 2015 Regulations (Employing authority contributions:
redundancy).

71.2

Paragraphs (3) and (4) apply if the cost of any benefits on termination in
respect of M increase as a result of—

71.2.a

the scheme manager accepting—

71.2.a.i

an immediate choice election made by or in respect of M in accordance with
regulation 9, or

71.2.a.ii

a deferred choice election made by or in respect of M in accordance with
regulation 12; or

71.2.b

an election referred to in sub-paragraph (a) not being made by or in respect
of M before the end of the immediate choice election period or the end of the
deferred choice election period (whichever election period applies in respect
of M).

71.3

M may pay all or part of the additional contribution as the scheme manager,
after having regard to the advice of the scheme actuary, determines will be
sufficient to meet the increased cost of the benefits insofar as that cost—

71.3.a

is not met by the contribution referred to in paragraph (1); and

71.3.b

exceeds the cost in respect of which M was entitled to make an additional
contribution on becoming entitled to any benefits on termination.

71.4

If M elects not to pay any additional contribution in accordance with
paragraph (3), the scheme manager must reduce the amount of pension by the
amount which the revised cost exceeds the original payment.

71.5

Subject to paragraph (6), if the member is not entitled to make an additional
contribution to meet the increase in costs referred to in paragraph (2) and
that increase is to be met by M’s employing authority in accordance with the
terms and conditions relevant to M’s employment, the scheme manager must waive
the element of the further contribution due from the employing authority that
relates to the increase.

71.6

Where M has received a relevant employing authority payment and that payment
must be reduced as a consequence of the increase in costs referred to in
paragraph (5), the amount that must be waived under that paragraph must also
be reduced by the same amount.

71.7

Paragraph (8) applies if the cost of any benefits on termination in respect of
M decrease as a result of—

71.7.a

the scheme manager accepting—

71.7.a.i

an immediate choice election made by or in respect of M in accordance with
regulation 9, or

71.7.a.ii

a deferred choice election made by or in respect of M in accordance with
regulation 12; or

71.7.b

an election referred to in sub-paragraph (a) not being made by or in respect
of M before the end of the immediate choice election period or the end of the
deferred choice election period (whichever election period applies in respect
of M).

71.8

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M or the designated person
of the amount by which the cost of any benefits on termination in respect of M
have decreased.

71.9

In this regulation—

      “ benefits on termination ” means benefits under—         regulations
14A Early retirement pension (termination of employment by employing
authority), 17 (lump sum on retirement) and 17A (general option to exchange
part of pension for lump sum) of the 1995 Regulations ;           regulation
58 (general option to exchange part of pension for lump sum) of the 2008
Regulations ; or           regulations 76 (conversion of part of pension into
lump sum) and 81 (premature retirement on grounds of redundancy) of the 2015
Regulations.                 “ relevant remedy member ” means a member who, in
respect of the termination of M’s employment by M’s employing authority, is
entitled to the payment of any benefits on termination;           “ relevant
employing authority payment ” means a payment made to M by M’s employing
authority in respect of the cessation of M’s employment referred to in
(whichever is relevant)—         regulation 14A (5)(a) of the 1995
Regulations;           regulation 55 (6)(a) of the 2008 Regulations; or
paragraph 7(2)(a) of Schedule 11 to the 2015 Regulations.

#### Partial retirement: immediate choice members


72

72.1

This regulation applies to an immediate choice member (“ M ”) who—

72.1.a

is entitled to a pension under—

72.1.a.i

regulation 49 or 180 of the 2008 Regulations  (Partial retirement (members
aged at least 55)); or

72.1.a.ii

regulation 83 of the 2015 Regulations (Election for partial retirement
(members over normal minimum pension age)), and

72.1.b

either—

72.1.b.i

has remediable service in the 2008 Section that is pensionable service under
that Section by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 and does not make an
immediate choice election under regulation 9 in respect of that service, or

72.1.b.ii

has remediable service in the 2008 Section that is pensionable service under
that Section other than by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 and makes an
immediate choice election under regulation 9 in respect of that service.

72.2

M may elect to adjust the specified percentage of M’s pension (excluding any
additional pension) in respect of which M has claimed immediate payment by an
amount determined by the scheme manager as being necessary to maintain the
amount of M’s annual partial retirement pension in payment at—

72.2.a

the end of the immediate choice election period where paragraph (1)(b)(i)
applies to M; and

72.2.b

the date the member makes an immediate choice election under regulation 9
where paragraph (1)(b)(ii) applies to M.

72.3

Where this regulation applies—

72.3.a

the scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M of M’s right under
paragraph (2) on or before the relevant date referred to in regulation 6(2);

72.3.b

M must, if M decides to exercise that right, give the scheme manager notice in
writing of that decision—

72.3.b.i

within three months beginning with the day after the day on which the scheme
manager sends the notice referred to in sub-paragraph (a), or

72.3.b.ii

by such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.

72.4

In this regulation, “ specified percentage ” in relation to M’s pension has
the meaning given in regulation 49(4)(a) of the 2008 Regulations, 180(3)(a) of
the 2008 Regulations or regulation 83(3)(a) of the 2015 Regulations (whichever
is relevant).

#### Partial retirement: deferred choice members


73

73.1

This regulation applies to a deferred choice member (“ M ”) who, at the
operative time, is entitled to a pension under—

73.1.za

regulation 16A of the 1995 Regulations (partial retirement pension);

73.1.a

regulation 49 or 180 of the 2008 Regulations (partial retirement (members aged
at least 55)); or

73.1.b

regulation 83 of the 2015 Regulations (election for partial retirement
(members over normal minimum pension age)).

73.2

M may make an election to substitute the specified percentage of M’s pension
(excluding any additional pension) in respect of which M has claimed immediate
payment with a different specified percentage (“a substitute percentage
election”).

73.3

The scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M of M’s right to make a
substitute percentage election under paragraph (2) on or before the relevant
date referred to in regulation 6(2).

73.4

A substitute percentage election must—

73.4.a

be made by M by notice in writing;

73.4.b

be received by the scheme manager—

73.4.b.i

within a period of three months beginning with the day after the scheme
manager sends the notice referred to in paragraph (3), or

73.4.b.ii

by such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case;

73.4.c

contain such information as the scheme manager requires;

73.4.d

take effect from the day on which the member became entitled to the pension
referred to in paragraph (1) (whichever is relevant); and

73.4.e

be disregarded for the purposes of determining whether the member may make a
further election for partial retirement under the regulation referred to in
paragraph (1) (whichever is relevant).

73.5

In this regulation—

“ operative time ” means if a deferred choice election by virtue of regulation
12 is made in relation to M’s remediable service, the time when the election
is made; otherwise, the end of the deferred choice election period in relation
to M; “ specified percentage ” in relation to M’s pension has the meaning
given in  regulation 16A(4)(a) of the 1995 Regulations,   regulation 49(4)(a)
of the 2008 Regulations, regulation 180(3)(a) of the 2008 Regulations or
regulation 83(3)(a) of the 2015 Regulations (whichever is relevant).

#### Determining whether a member meets the ill-health criteria in each scheme


74

74.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”)—

74.1.a

who ceased to be employed in HSC employment during the period of M’s
remediable service; and

74.1.b

whose application for an ill-health pension in relation to that service (“M’s
application”) has been determined by the scheme manager.

74.2

Where this regulation applies, the scheme manager must reconsider M’s
application together with any supporting medical evidence (where relevant) to
determine whether M would have met the ill-health retirement criteria in M’s
alternative scheme or section when the application was initially determined.

74.3

Where M or a designated person on M’s behalf has the right to make an
immediate choice election under regulation 9—

74.3.a

the scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M or the designated person
of the outcome of the scheme manager’s determination under paragraph (2)
before the immediate choice election period commences in respect of M; and

74.3.b

if M or the designated person on M’s behalf elects to take an ill-health
pension as a result of the scheme manager’s determination under paragraph (2),
any rights for M to make that election must be deemed to have been fulfilled.

74.4

Where M or a designated person on M’s behalf has the right to make a deferred
choice election under regulation 12—

74.4.a

the scheme manager must send a notice in writing to M or the designated person
of the outcome of the scheme manager’s determination under paragraph (2) as
soon as reasonably practicable after 1st October 2023; and

74.4.b

if M or the designated person on M’s behalf elects to take an ill-health
pension as a result of the scheme manager’s determination under paragraph (2),
any rights for M to make that election must be deemed to have been fulfilled.

74.5

The provisions of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022 and Part 3 of these
Regulations about the timing and effect of an immediate choice election by
virtue of section 6, and of a deferred choice election by virtue of section
10, of that Act apply subject to this regulation.

74.6

In this regulation—

      “ ill-health pension ” means a pension under—         regulation 13A of
the 1995 Regulations  (Ill health pension on early retirement);
regulation 49(3) of the 1995 Regulations  (Preserved pension: entitlement to
pension and retirement lump sum before age 60);           regulation 52 or
regulation 182 of the 2008 Regulations  (Early retirement on ill-health:
active members and non-contributing members);           regulation 54 or
regulation 184 of the 2008 Regulations  (Early retirement on ill-health
(deferred members);           regulation 89 of the 2015 Regulations
(Entitlement to ill-health pension); or           regulation 93 of the 2015
Regulations (Early retirement on ill-health (deferred members));
“ M’s alternative scheme or section ” means—         where M’s eligibility for
an ill-health pension was assessed under the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section,
the 2015 scheme;           where M’s eligibility for an ill-health pension was
assessed under the 2015 scheme, the 1995 Section or the 2008 Section
(whichever is relevant);                 “ HSC employment ” has the meaning
given in Schedule 13 to the 2015 Regulations.

#### Ill-health pension: acceptance of retrospective applications


75

75.1

This regulation applies where—

75.1.a

a remedy member (“ M ”) submits an application for an ill-health pension on or
after 1st October 2023; and

75.1.b

the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but for
a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule , M would, during the period of
M’s remediable service, have made the decision to apply for an ill-health
pension.

75.2

The scheme manager may treat the application—

75.2.a

in accordance with regulation 27 of the 2015 Transitional Regulations  (ill-
health benefits: continuity of existing applications); and

75.2.b

as if the application had been submitted before 1st April 2022.

75.3

In this regulation—

      “ ill-health pension ” means a pension under—         regulation 13A of
the 1995 Regulations (Ill health pension on early retirement);
regulation 52 or regulation 182 of the 2008 Regulations (early retirement on
ill-health: active members and non-contributing members); or
regulation 89 of the 2015 Regulations (entitlement to ill-health pension).

### Consequential amendments


#### Consequential amendments of the 1995 Regulations, the 2008 Regulations and the 2015 Transitional Regulations


76

The Schedule makes amendments to the 1995 Regulations, the 2008 Regulations
and the 2015 Transitional Regulations.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 7th
September 2023       (L.S.)   Laverne Montgomery   A senior officer of the
Department of Health           The Department of Finance consents to the
foregoing Regulations.       Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department
of Finance on 7th September 2023       (L.S.)   Patrick Neeson   A senior
officer of the Department of Finance

  Amendments of the 1995 Regulations, the 2008 Regulations and the 2015
Transitional Regulations

Regulation 76

##### Amendment of the 1995 Regulations


1

In the 1995 Regulations, in regulation 8 (restriction on further participation
in this Section of the scheme) , after paragraph (A2), insert—

1.A3

Nothing in paragraphs (4) to (18) of this regulation prevents a member’s
remediable service within the meaning of section 1 of the Public Service
Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 being treated as pensionable service
under this Section of the scheme in accordance with section 2 of that Act
(remediable service treated as pensionable under Chapter 1 legacy schemes).

.

##### Amendment of the 2008 Regulations


2

2.1

The 2008 Regulations are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 22, (Restrictions on eligibility: general) , after paragraph
(A2), insert—

2.2.A3

Nothing in paragraphs (1A) and (1C) to (1L) prevents a member’s remediable
service within the meaning of section 1 of the Public Service Pensions and
Judicial Offices Act 2022 being treated as pensionable service under this
Section of the Scheme in accordance with section 2 of that Act (Remediable
service treated as pensionable under Chapter 1 legacy schemes).

.

2.3

In regulation 154 (restrictions on eligibility: general) , after paragraph
(A2), insert—

2.3.A3

Nothing in paragraphs (1A) and (1C) to (1L) of this regulation prevents a
member’s remediable service within the meaning of section 1 of the Public
Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 being treated as pensionable
service under this Section of the Scheme in accordance with section 2 of that
Act (remediable service treated as pensionable under Chapter 1 legacy
schemes).

.

##### Amendment of the 2015 Transitional Regulations


3

3.1

Regulation 27 of the 2015 Transitional Regulations (ill-health benefits:
continuity of existing applications) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph (1)—

3.2.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “This regulation” insert  “,
except paragraph (1A) and paragraph (2) to the extent that it relates to
paragraph (1A),” ;

3.2.b

in sub-paragraph (a), in the words before paragraph (i), for “1st April 2022
(“the transition date”)—” substitute  “the transition date—” .

3.3

After paragraph (1), insert—

3.3.1A

This regulation, except paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) to the extent that it
relates to paragraph (1), applies during the application period to a member—

3.3.1A.a

who has remediable service in the legacy scheme up to and including 31st March
2022—

3.3.1A.a.i

that is pensionable service under that scheme by virtue of section 2(1) of
PSPJOA 2022;

3.3.1A.a.ii

in respect of which an immediate choice election by virtue of regulation 9 of
the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 (election for 2015 scheme benefits: immediate choice
members and deceased members) has not been made;

3.3.1A.b

who on the transition date—

3.3.1A.b.i

was prevented from contributing to or accruing further pensionable service in
the 1995 Section or being an active member of the 2008 Section; and

3.3.1A.b.ii

was eligible to be an active member of the new scheme;

3.3.1A.c

who submitted Form AW33E (or such other form as the Department accepted)
together with supporting medical evidence (if not included in the form) for
the purposes of 2015 regulation 89 before the transition date;

3.3.1A.d

whose Form AW33E (or such other form as the Department accepted) and
supporting medical evidence (“the member’s application for ill-health
pension”) was received by the Department before the transition date; and

3.3.1A.e

whose ill-health pension had not become payable under the new scheme before
the transition date.

.

3.4

In paragraph (2), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “paragraph (1)”
substitute  “paragraphs (1) and (1A)” .

3.5

In paragraph (21)—

3.5.a

in the definition of “the member’s application for ill-health pension” at the
end, insert  “or (1A)(d) (whichever is relevant)” ;

3.5.b

at the end of the definition of “the pension comparison calculation”, for the
full stop substitute a semicolon;

3.5.c

after that definition, insert  ““ the transition date ” means 1st April 2022.”
.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (“ the 2014 Act ”)
makes provision and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “
scheme regulations ” as defined in chapter 2 of the 2014 Act), about the
establishment of public service pension schemes. There are two Health and
Social Care Pension Schemes: a scheme divided into two sections known as the
1995 Section, established by the Health and Social Services (Superannuation)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995(S.R.  1995 No. 95 ) (“ the 1995
Regulations ”), and the 2008 Section, established by the Health and Social
Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 ( S.R. 2008 No. 256
) (“the 2008 Regulations) (together “the legacy scheme”), and the scheme
established by the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. 2015 No. 120 ) (“ the 2015 scheme ”). The Health and
Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions)
Regulations (Northern Ireland)   (S.R. No. 122)  (“ the 2015 Transitional
Regulations ”) provided for the treatment and payment of legacy scheme
benefits to certain members of the 2015 scheme. Transitional protection of
this kind provided when reformed public service pensions were introduced in
2015 was found to discriminate against public service pension scheme members
on the basis of age.

  The Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA
2022”), at Chapter 1, makes provision and confers powers for scheme
regulations under PSPA 2013 to make further provision in relation to specified
service (“ remediable service ” as defined in section 1 of PSPJOA 2022) of
members who benefited from transitional protection and of members who did not
so benefit only by reason of their age. Section 27 of PSPJOA 2022 requires
certain powers to make scheme regulations to be exercised in accordance with
Department of Finance directions.

  These Regulations are scheme regulations under PSPA 2014 and are made in
accordance with PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in
the legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme. They are, to the extent required by
section 27 of PSPJOA 2022, made in accordance with Department of Finance
directions under that section (in the form of the Public Service Pensions
(Exercise of Powers, Compensation and Information) Directions (Northern
Ireland) 2023 (the “2023 Directions”)).

  Part 2 makes provision in relation to medical practitioners and non-GP
providers and the provision of remediable service statements. Regulations 3 to
5 provide for the refund or recovery of any overpayment or underpayment of
contributions in relation to such members. Regulations 3 and 5 also provide in
relation to such members who are active or deferred members the option of
waiving a return of contributions until their election to receive 2015 scheme
benefits (“deferred choice election”) has been made under regulation 12.
Regulation 6 requires the scheme manager to provide a remediable service
statement to each remedy member or designated person (see explanation in
regulation 7) who has not made an election to receive 2015 scheme benefits.

  Part 3 makes provision about the principal decisions that may be made in
relation to a member’s remediable service. Regulation 7 provides for the
person, referred to as the designated person, who may make an election in
relation to the remediable service of a deceased or incapable member.
Regulation 8 provides for when and how an election may be made for service in
respect of which a member opted out of the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme
during the remedy period to be reinstated and treated as remediable service.
Regulation 9 provides for when and how an election may be made, or deemed to
have been made, for service in respect of a pensioner or a deceased or
incapable member to be treated as pensionable service under the 2015 scheme
and regulation 10 provides for the benefits that must be corrected after an
immediate choice election has been made. Regulation 11 provides for the
protection of the pension of a child beneficiary not living in the same
household as an adult survivor of a remedy member. Regulation 12 provides for
when and how an election may be made, or deemed to have been made, for service
in respect of an active or deferred member or a deceased or incapable member
as if it were pensionable service under the 2015 scheme (a “deferred choice
election”) and regulation 13 provides for the adjustment of a resulting
underpayment or overpayment of benefits.

  Part 4 makes provision about additional pension and early retirement
reduction buy-out contributions. Regulation 15 makes provision for the
treatment of additional pension payable in respect of a remedy member who was
not fully protected when their pensionable service was moved to the 2015
scheme and whose pension account was credited with additional pension or who
paid contributions in respect of an additional pension election. Regulation 16
makes provision in respect of contributions so treated and paid after 31 March
2022. Regulation 17 provides for the treatment of a corresponding option
exercised in accordance with regulation 15 on the making of a deferred choice
election. Regulation 18 makes provision for the treatment of buy-out
contributions in the remedy period where a deferred choice election may be
made by or in respect of a member. Regulation 19 makes provision for the
treatment of such a member’s legacy scheme additional contributions where a
deferred choice election is made, or treated as having been made, in respect
of their remediable service. Regulation 20 makes provision for the treatment
of additional pension in respect of pensioners and deceased members of the
legacy scheme. Regulation 21 makes provision for the treatment of additional
pension in respect of pensioners and deceased members of the 2015 scheme, or
deceased, on 30th September 2023. Regulation 22 makes provision for the
treatment of buy-out contributions in the remedy period where the member was a
pensioner or deceased member of the 2015 scheme. Regulation 23 provides for
when and how a remedy member may enter into an arrangement to pay voluntary
contributions for additional pension under the legacy scheme. Regulation 24
provides for when and how a remedy member may revoke their cancellation of
their arrangement to pay for additional years or of their option to purchase
additional pension.

  Part 5 makes provision about cases in which the pension rights secured by
virtue of a member’s remediable service have been shared under a pension
sharing order or are at issue in proceedings relating to the member’s divorce
or legal dissolution of a civil partnership. Regulations in this Part make
provision about a member’s pension debit or a former spouse or civil partner’s
pension credit where they are subject to a pension debit or a pension credit
under article 26 of the Welfare Reform and Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order
1999 (S.I.  1999 No.3147 (NI 11) .) on or after 1st April 2015, to reflect a
retrospective change in the entitlement relating to the member’s remediable
service shareable rights. They provide, in particular, for the calculation or,
where appropriate, recalculation of a valuation of pension benefits under
regulation 3 of the Pensions on Divorce etc. (Provision of Information)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000 ( S.R. 2000 No. 142 ), in relation to the
member’s remediable service shareable rights.

  Part 6 makes provision about pension rights transferred into and out of the
Health and Social Care Service Pension Schemes during the period of a member’s
remediable service. Regulations 37 to 48 make provision about transfers in and
out of the legacy scheme or the 2015 scheme, including (in regulation 42)
transfers between UK Health Service schemes, on a cash equivalent basis. These
regulations make provision about the calculation (and, where appropriate, the
recalculation) of the value of a transfer payment (in relation to the 1995
Section) or of a transfer value payment (in relation to the 2008 Section) and
the making and accepting of payments in relation to the transfer value of
rights secured by virtue of remediable service. Regulations 49 to 52 make
similar provision in relation to transfers in and out of the legacy scheme or
the 2015 scheme on the terms of the Public Sector Transfer Club. Regulation 43
requires the scheme manager to provide a remediable service statement in
accordance with specified provisions in direction 6 of the 2023 Directions to
a person who has transferred out rights in respect of remediable service.
Regulation 54 provides that the transfer of any rights secured by virtue of
remediable service into the 2015 scheme are to be treated as having been
transferred into the relevant Section of the legacy scheme. Regulation 55
provides for the variation of the value of transferred in remediable rights so
that they are of an equivalent value to the value the member would have
secured if they had originally transferred to that Section of the legacy
scheme. Regulation 56 makes provision for any pension benefits paid in respect
of a member’s transferred in remediable rights to be treated as being paid and
always having been paid from the relevant Section of the legacy scheme.

  Part 7 makes provision about certain lifetime allowance and annual allowance
charges where there is a relevant rectification provision in accordance with,
and as defined in, regulation 2 of The Public Service Pension Schemes
(Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023 ( S.I.
2023/113 ) (“ the 2023 Tax Regulations ”). Regulation 58 requires the scheme
manager to pay a lifetime allowance charge, attributable to a relevant
rectification provision, where a scheme manager of a private sector scheme
makes a successful application under section 267 of Finance Act  2004 (c.12)
(“FA 2004”), and the scheme manager becomes liable, jointly and severally with
the member, in accordance with regulation 36 of the 2023 Tax Regulations.
Regulation 59 requires the scheme manager to accept a scheme pays notice in
accordance with specified provisions in direction 7 of the 2023 Directions
where a member is unable to give an effective notice to the scheme
administrator under section 237B(3) of FA 2004 in relation to a relevant tax
year because the time limit in section 237BA of FA 2004 has passed.

  Part 8 makes provision permitting the scheme manager to pay amounts to
members or the personal representatives of deceased members as compensation
for compensatable losses that meet one of the conditions set out in section 23
of PSPJOA 2022. Regulation 60 requires that this compensation be paid in
accordance with direction 8 of the 2023 Directions and sets out the process
for applying for compensation. Regulation 61 makes provision for the payment
of indirect compensation where a member has incurred a tax loss as defined in
section 23(9) of PSPJOA 2022 which resulted in a reduction of that member’s
benefits.

  Part 9 makes provision about the application of interest to amounts owed to
or from a member and the process for the payment of amounts owed by a scheme
to a member or vice versa as a consequence of the remedy. Regulation 63
provides for the calculation of interest in accordance with the 2023
Directions. Regulation 64 makes provision to ensure that where interest
applies to a payment associated with the remedy the other legacy scheme
regulations specified that also provide for the payment of interest on late
benefits payments do not also apply. Regulation 65 provides for the netting
off of overpayments and underpayments created by the remedy and of any
interest owed on them in accordance with direction 19 of the 2023 Directions.
Regulations 66 and 67 set out, respectively, the payment processes where a
person owes a net amount to the legacy scheme and vice versa.

  Part 10 permits, and sets out the process for, legacy scheme members who had
service under the 1995 Section and who elected to move their previous accrual
in that Section to the 2008 Section before they joined the 2015 scheme to
revoke that election with the effect that the member’s pensionable service
under the 1995 Regulations is treated as if it were never such service under
the 2008 Regulations.

  Part 11 makes provision in respect of certain retirement categories
supplementing or varying the effect the remedy would otherwise have in
relation to benefits already in payment including those paid on the grounds of
premature retirement in the interests of efficiency (regulation 70),
redundancy (regulation 71), partial retirement (regulations 72 and 73) and
ill-health (regulations 74 and 75).

  Part 12 and the Schedule provide for consequential amendments to the 1995
Regulations, the 2008 Regulations and the 2015 Transitional Regulations. The
effect of the amendments to the 1995 Regulations and the 2008 Regulations in,
respectively, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Schedule is to make it clear that
nothing in earlier amendments to those Regulations, as specified, prevents a
member’s remediable service between 1st April 2015 and 31st March 2022 being
treated as pensionable service under the member’s Section of the legacy scheme
under PSPJOA 2022. Paragraph 3 of the Schedule amends regulation 27 of the
2015 Transitional Regulations to extend its scope so that it also applies to
members who applied for ill-health retirement under the 2015 Regulations
during their remediable service and whose application was accepted or rejected
after the end of their remediable service on 31st March 2022.

  A full impact assessment has not been completed for these Regulations. An
Explanatory Memorandum has been published alongside these Regulations.

