Title: The Child Support (Management of Payments and Arrears) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-02-26
Description: These Regulations amend the Child Support (Management of Payments and Arrears) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 (S.R. 2009 No. 422) to make provision for further circumstances in which the Department may extinguish liability in respect of arrears of child support maintenance where it appears to the Department that it would be unfair or otherwise inappropriate to enforce liability in respect of those arrears.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/189

## The Child Support (Management of Payments and Arrears) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under Article 48(2) of the Child Support (Northern Ireland) Order
1991 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months from the
date of their coming into operation.

    Family Law   Child Support

  Made   16th November 2023

  Coming into operation in accordance with regulation 1

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 38E, 47(1) and 48(2) of the Child
Support (Northern Ireland) Order 1991  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Child Support (Management of Payments
and Arrears) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come
into operation on 26th February 2024.

### Amendment of the Child Support (Management of Payments and Arrears) Regulations

2

2.1

The Child Support (Management of Payments and Arrears) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2009  are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 13F  (circumstances in which the Department may exercise the
power in Article 38E of the Order)—

2.2.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (g);

2.2.b

at the end of paragraph (h) insert—

;

2.2.b.i

the arrears relate to liability for child support maintenance accrued under a
2012 scheme case  where all of the following apply—

2.2.b.i.i

a maintenance calculation  has ceased to have effect under one or more of the
following provisions under the 1991 Order—

2.2.b.i.i.aa

Article 7(5) and (6) (a person who requested a maintenance calculation
requests the Department to cease acting);

2.2.b.i.i.bb

Schedule 1, paragraph 16(1)  (termination of calculations),

2.2.b.i.ii

the arrears are less than £7, and

2.2.b.i.iii

the non-resident parent  has failed to make any payments within the 3 month
period which precedes the date of the decision of the Department under Article
38E(1)  of the 1991 Order (power to write off arrears); or

2.2.b.j

the arrears relate to liability for child maintenance accrued under a 2012
scheme case where all of the following apply—

2.2.b.j.i

the Department does not have jurisdiction to make a maintenance calculation
under Article 41  of the 1991 Order,

2.2.b.j.ii

as a result of sub-paragraph (i), the Department has made a supersession
decision under Article 19(1)  of the 1991 Order,

2.2.b.j.iii

the arrears are less than £7, and

2.2.b.j.iv

the non-resident parent has failed to make any payments within the 3 month
period which precedes the date of the decision of the Department under Article
38E(1) of the 1991 Order (power to write off arrears).

.

2.3

In regulation 13G (Department required to give notice), in paragraph (2),
after “13F(h),” insert  “13F(i), 13F(j),” .

2.4

In regulation 13I (notification of decision to write off), in paragraph (2),
for “regulation 13J(1)(a) or (2)(a)” substitute  “regulations 13F(i) or (j) or
13J(1)(a) or (2)(a)” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 16th
November 2023.       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Child Support (Management of Payments and
Arrears) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 ( S.R. 2009 No. 422 ) to make
provision for further circumstances in which the Department may extinguish
liability in respect of arrears of child support maintenance where it appears
to the Department that it would be unfair or otherwise inappropriate to
enforce liability in respect of those arrears.

  These further circumstances in which the Department may extinguish liability
arise when a maintenance calculation has ceased under specific provisions of
the Child Support (Northern Ireland) Order 1991, the arrears are less than £7
and the non-resident parent has failed to make any payments in the three
months preceding the date on which the Department makes the decision to
extinguish liability.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph (10) of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security (Administration) (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 8) , are not
subject to the requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference
to the Social Security Advisory Committee.

  A regulatory impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations
as they have no impact on the costs of the business. An Explanatory Memorandum
has been published alongside these Regulations on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

