Title: The Housing Benefit and Universal Credit Housing Costs (Executive Determinations) (Modification) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-02-27
Description: These Regulations modify the Housing Benefit (Executive Determinations) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (S.R. 2008 No. 100) and the Universal Credit Housing Costs (Executive Determinations) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (S.R. 2016 No. 222) to make changes to how the local housing allowance is determined.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/4

## The Housing Benefit and Universal Credit Housing Costs (Executive Determinations) (Modification) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Housing

  Made   9th January 2023

  Coming into operation   31st January 2023

      The Department for Communities , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 122(1)(d), 129A(2) and 171(1) and
(3) to (5) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992 , and now vested in it , and Articles 16(4), 38(1) and 48(2)
of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 .           Proposals in
respect of these Regulations were not referred to the Social Security Advisory
Committee since it appeared to the Department for Communities that by reason
of the urgency of the matter it was expedient not to do so .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These regulations may be cited as the Housing Benefit and Universal Credit
Housing Costs (Executive Determinations) (Modification) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 31st January 2023.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Modification to the Housing Benefit (Executive Determinations) Regulations

2

For the purposes of determining the local housing allowance in 2023, the
Schedule (broad rental market area determinations and local housing allowance
determinations) to the Housing Benefit (Executive Determinations) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2008  is to be read as if for paragraph 2(2)  (local
housing allowance for category of dwelling in paragraph 1) there were
substituted—

2.2

For all broad rental market areas the local housing allowance for any category
of dwelling is the allowance determined for that category of accommodation on
31st March 2020.

### Modification to the Universal Credit Housing Costs (Executive Determinations) Regulations

3

For the purposes of determining the local housing allowances in 2023, Schedule
1 (local housing allowance determinations) to the Universal Credit Housing
Costs (Executive Determinations) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  is to be
read as if for paragraph 2(2)  (local housing allowance for category of
accommodation in paragraph 1) there were substituted—

3.2

For all the broad rental market areas the local housing allowance for any
category of accommodation is the allowance determined for that category of
accommodation on 31st March 2020.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 9th
January 2023.       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations modify the Housing Benefit (Executive Determinations)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 ( S.R. 2008 No. 100 ) and the Universal
Credit Housing Costs (Executive Determinations) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 222 ) to make changes to how the local housing allowance
is determined.

  Regulations 2 and 3 modify the above Regulations to provide that, for all
broad rental market areas, the local housing allowance for any category of
dwelling or accommodation is the allowance determined for that category of
dwelling or accommodation on 31st March 2020. The modification will apply for
those purposes of determining local housing allowances in 2023.

  The allowances were set by regulation 4 of the Social Security (Coronavirus)
(Further Measures) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020 ( S.R. 2020 No. 53 ).
These figures have subsequently been maintained, at the same rate, by the
Housing Benefit and Universal Credit Housing Costs (Executive Determinations)
(Modification) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2021 ( S.R. 2021 No. 14 ) and
the Housing Benefit and Universal Credit Housing Costs (Executive
Determinations) (Amendment and Modification) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2022 ( S.R. 2022 No. 15 ).

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as no,
or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is
foreseen.

