Title: The Control of Explosives Precursors and Poisons Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-02-09
Description: These Regulations concern the supply of regulated and reportable substances (see section 2 of the Poisons Act 1972 (c. 66) (“the 1972 Act”) for definitions of a regulated substance and a reportable substance).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/63

## The Control of Explosives Precursors and Poisons Regulations 2023

    Health And Safety

  Made   at 12.45 p.m. on 23rd January 2023

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.30 p.m. on 23rd January 2023

  Coming into force   1st October 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 2A(1)(a), 3A(8), 3C(7), 7(1)(a), (f) and (2), and
10(1)(a) and (b) of the Poisons Act 1972  (“ the 1972 Act ”).           In
accordance with section 2A(3) of the 1972 Act, the Secretary of State, in
determining the distribution of substances as between the various parts of
Schedule 1A  to the 1972 Act, has had regard to the desirability of
restricting Parts 3 and 4 to substances that meet the criteria provided by
section 2A(3)(a) and (b) of the 1972 Act.

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Control of Explosives Precursors and
Poisons Regulations 2023 and come into force on 1st October 2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

1.3

In these Regulations—

1.3.a

“ the 1972 Act ” means the Poisons Act 1972;

1.3.b

“ the 2015 Regulations ” means the Control of Poisons and Explosives
Precursors Regulations 2015 ;

1.3.c

a person is a business customer in relation to the supply of a regulated
substance or a reportable substance  if the person acquires, or seeks to
acquire, the regulated substance or the reportable substance for purposes
connected with that person’s trade, business or profession, or the person’s
performance of a public function.

### Notification requirement

2

A person must not supply a regulated substance or a reportable substance (“the
substance”) to a business customer unless the person first notifies the
business customer in writing that the substance is a regulated substance or a
reportable substance for the purposes of the 1972 Act.

### Additional requirements relating to the supply of a regulated explosives precursor

3

3.1

A person must not supply a regulated explosives precursor to a business
customer unless the person first complies with the requirements imposed by
paragraphs (2) to (4) (but see paragraph (6)).

3.2

The person must obtain the following from the business customer—

3.2.a

the business customer’s name and address;

3.2.b

if the business customer is not an individual, the name of an individual who
is authorised on behalf of the business customer to acquire the regulated
explosives precursor;

3.2.c

a form of photographic identification of the business customer or, if the
business customer is not an individual, of the individual referred to in sub-
paragraph (b);

3.2.d

a statement of the nature of the business customer’s trade, business or
profession, or of the public function that the business customer performs; and

3.2.e

the business customer’s VAT registration number, if the business customer has
such a number.

3.3

The person must be reasonably satisfied that acquisition of the regulated
explosives precursor by the business customer is reasonably consistent with
the nature of the business customer’s trade, business or profession, or of the
public function that the business customer performs.

3.4

The person must make a record of the information, document and statement
obtained from the business customer in accordance with paragraph (2).

3.5

The person must preserve the record referred to in paragraph (4) for a period
of 18 months beginning with the date on which the record is made.

3.6

A person may supply a regulated explosives precursor to a business customer
without first complying with the requirements imposed by paragraphs (2) and
(4) if—

3.6.a

the person has made an earlier supply of a regulated explosives precursor to
the business customer;

3.6.b

the person made the record referred to in paragraph (4) in relation to that
earlier supply (“the record”);

3.6.c

the person continues to hold the record; and

3.6.d

the period that has elapsed since the date on which the record was made is not
more than 18 months.

3.7

In this regulation “ VAT registration number ” means the number allocated by
the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs to a person registered
under the Value Added Tax Act 1994 .

### Provision of information to workers

4

4.1

This regulation applies to a person who carries on a trade, business or
profession involving the supply of regulated substances or reportable
substances, and who engages a worker in connection with making such supplies
(“the worker”).

4.2

The person must ensure that the worker is not involved in the making of
supplies of regulated substances or reportable substances unless first
provided with such information on the following matters as is relevant to the
worker’s role and responsibilities—

4.2.a

the requirements that are imposed by the 1972 Act, by these Regulations, and
by the 2015 Regulations, in relation to the supply of regulated substances and
reportable substances;

4.2.b

the offences that apply in respect of a failure to comply with the
requirements referred to in sub-paragraph (a); and

4.2.c

the regulated substances or reportable substances that the person supplies.

4.3

In this regulation “ worker ” has the meaning given by section 230(3) of the
Employment Rights Act 1996 .

### Online marketplaces

5

5.1

An operator of an online marketplace must take all reasonably practicable
measures to provide information to any supplier who uses the online
marketplace to make a relevant transaction, about—

5.1.a

the requirements that are imposed by the 1972 Act, by these Regulations, and
by the 2015 Regulations, in relation to the supply of regulated substances and
reportable substances; and

5.1.b

the offences that apply in respect of a failure to comply with the
requirements referred to in sub-paragraph (a).

5.2

An operator of an online marketplace must—

5.2.a

take all reasonably practicable measures to identify any relevant transaction
that a supplier makes or proposes to make using the online marketplace, that
would give the operator reasonable grounds for believing the transaction to be
suspicious; and

5.2.b

report a relevant transaction if the operator has reasonable grounds for
believing that transaction to be suspicious.

5.3

In this regulation—

5.3.a

“ online marketplace ” means any software (including a website, part of a
website, or an application) through which persons other than the operator are
able to sell goods (whether or not the operator also does so);

5.3.b

“ operator ” means the person who controls access to, and the contents of, the
online marketplace;

5.3.c

“ relevant transaction ” has the meaning given by section 3C(2) of the 1972
Act;

5.3.d

whether or not a relevant transaction is suspicious is to be construed in
accordance section 3C(3) and (4) of the 1972 Act;

5.3.e

a duty to report a relevant transaction is a duty to give notice of it to the
Secretary of State in accordance with regulation 6.

### Reporting of suspicious transactions etc.

6

6.1

This regulation applies to a person who—

6.1.a

is required by section 3C of the 1972 Act, or by regulation 5(2)(b), to report
a relevant transaction; or

6.1.b

is required by section 3C of the 1972 Act to report a disappearance or a theft
of a regulated substance or a reportable substance.

6.2

The person must satisfy the requirement imposed by paragraph (1)(a) or (b)
(“the reporting requirement”) within the period of 24 hours beginning with—

6.2.a

in the case of a relevant transaction, the time when the person forms the
belief that the transaction is suspicious; or

6.2.b

in the case of a disappearance or a theft, the time when the person discovers
the disappearance or the theft.

6.3

The reporting requirement must be satisfied by the person, or by another
person who is authorised to act on the person’s behalf, using either the
electronic reporting service or the telephone reporting service that is
provided by the Secretary of State for this purpose.

6.4

If the reporting requirement arises in respect of a relevant transaction, the
report provided to the Secretary of State must be accompanied by all such
information that is held by the person that is likely to be of reasonable
assistance to the Secretary of State in identifying—

6.4.a

if the reporting requirement applies to a person in the case of a relevant
transaction, the customer or the prospective customer to the relevant
transaction; or

6.4.b

if the reporting requirement applies to an operator of an online marketplace,
the supplier using the online marketplace to make a relevant transaction, and
the customer or prospective customer to that transaction.

### Review

7

7.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

7.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations,
and

7.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

7.2

The report referred to in paragraph 1(b) must be published before 1st October
2028.

7.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding five years.

### Amendments to Schedule 1A to the 1972 Act

8

8.1

Schedule 1A to the 1972 Act (regulated substances and reportable substances)
is amended as follows.

8.2

In the table in Part 1 (regulated explosives precursors)—

8.2.a

insert as the first three entries—

Ammonium nitrate (CAS RN 6484-52-2) in concentration of 16% by weight of
nitrogen in relation to ammonium nitrate or higher - Hexamine (CAS RN
100-97-0) - Hydrochloric acid (CAS RN 7647-01-0) 10% w/w

;

8.2.b

after the entry for “Nitric acid” insert—

Phosphoric acid (CAS RN 7664-38-2) 30% w/w

.

8.3

In the table in Part 2 (regulated poisons)—

8.3.a

after the entry for “Aluminium phosphide” insert—

Aluminium sulfide (CAS RN 1302-81-4) -

;

8.3.b

in the entry for “Arsenic” omit “, other than those listed in Part 4 of this
Schedule”;

8.3.c

after the entry for “Bromomethane” insert—

Calcium phosphide (CAS RN 1305-99-3) - Calcium sulfide (CAS RN 20548-54-3) -

;

8.3.d

after the entry for “Magnesium phosphide” insert—

Magnesium sulfide (CAS RN 12032-36-9) -

;

8.3.e

in the entry for “Mercury” for the text after “(CAS RN 7439-97-6)” substitute
“; its compounds” ;

8.3.f

after the entry for “Phosphorus” insert—

Sodium sulfide (CAS RN 1313-82-2) -

;

8.3.g

after the entry for “Thallium” insert—

Zinc phosphide (CAS RN 1314-84-7) - 2,4-Dinitrophenol (CAS RN 51-28-5) and
compounds including sodium dinitrophenolate (CAS RN 1011-73-0) -

.

8.4

In Part 3 (reportable explosives precursors)—

8.4.a

omit the entries for “Hexamine” and “Ammonium nitrate”;

8.4.b

after the entry for “Magnesium powders”  insert  “Sulfur (CAS RN 7704-34-9)” .

8.5

In the table in Part 4 (reportable poisons)—

8.5.a

omit the entries for “Arsenic”, “Hydrochloric acid”, “Mercuric chloride”,
“Phosphoric acid” and “Zinc phosphide”;

8.5.b

after the entry for “Metallic oxalates” insert—

Metal phosphides - Metal sulfides and polysulfides -

8.5.c

after the entry for “Sodium hydroxide” insert—

Sodium hypochlorite (CAS RN 7681-52-9) solutions above 6% available chlorine -

.

### Amendments to the 2015 Regulations

9

Regulation 2 of the 2015 Regulations (supplies of substances involving
despatch to Northern Ireland or export from the UK: modification of section 3A
of the Act) is amended as follows—

9.a

omit paragraph (3) ;

9.b

in paragraph (4), for “Except as provided by paragraph (3), nothing”
substitute  “Nothing” ;

9.c

omit paragraph (5).

      Tom Tugendhat   Minister of State   Home Office     At 12.45 p.m. on
23rd January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations concern the supply of regulated and reportable substances
(see section 2 of the Poisons Act  1972 (c. 66)  (“ the 1972 Act ”) for
definitions of a regulated substance and a reportable substance).

  Regulations 2 to 6 impose various requirements on persons who are either
involved in the supply of regulated or reportable substances (or, in the case
of regulation 3, regulated explosives precursors only (this term is also
defined by section 2 of the 1972 Act)), or who operate an online marketplace
that is used by suppliers to make supplies of such substances.

  Failure to comply with the requirements imposed by regulations 2 to 6 is a
criminal offence (see section 7(4) of the 1972 Act).

  Regulation 8 makes amendments to the lists of regulated and reportable
substances that are found in Schedule 1A to the 1972 Act.

  Regulation 9 makes amendments to regulation 2 of the Control of Poisons and
Explosives Precursors Regulations 2015 (S. I. 2015/966) to remove references
to licences issued or recognised in accordance with a provision of European
Union law that has now been repealed.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that these Regulations will have on
the costs of business, the voluntary sector and the public sector has been
undertaken. A copy is annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available
alongside these Regulations on  www.legislation.gov.uk . Copies may also be
obtained from the Explosives Precursors and Poisons team at the Home Office, 2
Marsham Street, London SW1P 4DF ( precursorsandpoisons@homeoffice.gov.uk ).

