Title: The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (Consequential Amendments to Secondary Legislation) (Wales) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-27
Description: The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (“the 2023 Act”) implements a number of changes to the system of non-domestic rating in England and Wales.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/1154

## The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (Consequential Amendments to Secondary Legislation) (Wales) Regulations 2023

    Rating And Valuation, Wales

  Made   at 12.24 p.m. on 27 October 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   at 4.00 p.m. on 27 October 2023

  Coming into force   at 8.00 p.m. on 27 October 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
power conferred on them by section 17(2) of the Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 .

### Title, application and coming into force


1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023
(Consequential Amendments to Secondary Legislation) (Wales) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations apply in relation to Wales.

1.3

These Regulations come into force at 8.00 p.m. on 27 October 2023.

### Amendments to the Non-Domestic Rating (Collection and Enforcement) (Local Lists) Regulations 1989


2

2.1

Regulation 3(1) (interpretation) of the Non-Domestic Rating (Collection and
Enforcement) (Local Lists) Regulations 1989  is amended as follows.

2.2

In the definition of “the amount payable”, in sub-paragraph (a)—

2.2.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.2.b

for “58(3)(a)” substitute  “58(3)” .

### Amendment to the Non-Domestic Rating (Collection and Enforcement) (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1990


3

In regulation 3(2)(a) (joint owners and occupiers) of the Non-Domestic Rating
(Collection and Enforcement) (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1990 , for
“58(3)(a)” substitute  “58(3)” .

### Amendments to the Non-Domestic Rating (Demand Notices) (Wales) Regulations 2017


4

4.1

Schedule 1 (matters to be contained in demand notices) to the Non-Domestic
Rating (Demand Notices) (Wales) Regulations 2017  is amended as follows.

4.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.4

In paragraph 6—

4.4.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.4.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.4.c

in sub-paragraph (c), for “58(3)(a)” substitute  “58(3)” ;

4.4.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendments to the Non-Domestic Rating (Small Business Relief) (Wales) Order 2017


5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendments to the Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (Wales) Regulations 2022


6

6.1

The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (Wales) Regulations 2022  are
amended as follows.

6.2

In regulation 7(2)(b) (notional chargeable amount), after “effect” insert  “,
but where paragraph 3 of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 3 of Schedule 5A
(improvement relief) to the Act applies in respect of a hereditament (as the
case may be), A is that rateable value minus G.”

6.3

After regulation 7(2), insert—

6.3.3

In paragraph (2)(b) above, G is the amount prescribed, or calculated in
accordance with provision prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph
10(7) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(6) of Schedule 5A to the Act (as the case
may be).

6.4

In regulation 10(a) (exceptions), for “section 45A of” substitute  “paragraph
2 of Schedule 4ZB to” .

6.5

In regulation 11 (rules for finding the chargeable amount), for “section
58(3)(a)” substitute  “section 58(3)” .

### Amendments to the Non-Domestic Rating (Alteration of Lists and Appeals) (Wales) Regulations 2023


7

7.1

The Non-Domestic Rating (Alteration of Lists and Appeals) (Wales) Regulations
2023  are amended as follows.

7.2

In regulation 12(1) (proposals made on the ground in regulation 4(1)(b)),
after “paragraph 2(7)(d)” insert  “, (da)” .

7.3

In regulation 14 (incomplete proposals)—

7.3.a

in paragraph (3), after “paragraph 2(7)(d)” insert  “, (da)” ;

7.3.b

in paragraph (4), after “paragraph 2(7)(d)” insert  “, (da)” .

      Rebecca Evans   Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the
Welsh Ministers     At 12.24 p.m. on 27 October 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (“ the 2023 Act ”) implements a number of
changes to the system of non-domestic rating in England and Wales.

  These Regulations make amendments to secondary legislation in relation to
Wales which are consequential on sections 1, 2, 3 and 14 of, and Part 1 of the
Schedule to, the 2023 Act.

  Sections 1 to 3 of the 2023 Act repeal certain provisions in Part 3 of the
Local Government Finance Act 1988 (“ the 1988 Act ”), and re-enact those
provisions in new Schedules 4ZA, 4ZB and 5A to that Act.

  Regulations 2 to 5 of these Regulations amend the Non-Domestic Rating
(Collection and Enforcement) (Local Lists) Regulations 1989, the Non-Domestic
Rating (Collection and Enforcement) (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations
1990, the Non-Domestic Rating (Demand Notices) (Wales) Regulations 2017, and
the Non-Domestic Rating (Small Business Relief) (Wales) Order 2017 as a
consequence of the re-enacted provisions in section 58 of, and Schedules 4ZA
and 4ZB to, the 1988 Act.

  Paragraph 3 of Schedule 4ZA and paragraph 3 of Schedule 5A to the 1988 Act
introduce a new relief (improvement relief) for eligible properties on the
local and central lists respectively.

  Regulation 6 of these Regulations amends the Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable
Amounts) (Wales) Regulations 2022 (“ the 2022 Regulations ”) to take into
account the effect of improvement relief on the rateable value of a property
when calculating the notional chargeable amount for the purposes of regulation
6 of the 2022 Regulations. It also amends the 2022 Regulations as a
consequence of the re-enacted provisions in section 58 of, and Schedule 4ZB
to, the 1988 Act.

  Section 14 of the 2023 Act, which makes provision in relation to matters not
to be taken into account when determining rateable values between revaluations
in England, amends paragraph 2(7) of Schedule 6 to the 1988 Act.

  Regulation 7 of these Regulations amends the Non-Domestic Rating (Alteration
of Lists and Appeals) (Wales) Regulations 2023 as a consequence of the
amendments made to Schedule 6 to the 1988 Act.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with this
instrument.

