Title: The Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein) (Norway) (Further provision in respect of Scotland) Order 2023
Date: 2024-05-30
Description: This Order makes provision for the modification of certain social security legislation, so far as it relates to devolved matters, so as to give effect to the Convention on Social Security Coordination between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed at London on 30 June 2023 (“the Convention”). It does so by applying the modifications provided for by article 2 of the Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein) (Norway) Order 2023 (“the 2023 Order”), where the legislation being modified in the 2023 Order relates to a matter which falls within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament, and in relation to which competence for the exercise of functions has transferred to the Scottish Ministers. The Convention is set out in the schedule of the 2023 Order.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/282

## The Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein) (Norway) (Further provision in respect of Scotland) Order 2023

Social Security

Made 11th October 2023

Laid before the Scottish Parliament 13th October 2023

Coming into force in accordance with article 1(1)

At the Court at Buckingham Palace, the 11th day of October 2023 Present, The
King’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council This Order is made under the powers
in section 179(1)(a) and (2) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992
which provide that, for the purpose of giving effect to any agreement with the
government of a country outside the United Kingdom providing for reciprocity
in specified matters, His Majesty may by Order in Council make provision for
modifying or adapting specified legislation in its application to cases
affected by such agreement. At London on 30 June 2023 a Convention on Social
Security Coordination between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the
Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
(“ the Convention ”) was signed on behalf of the respective Governments. The
Convention makes provision for reciprocal arrangements between Iceland, the
Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland in relation to social security following
the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union and the European
Economic Area. The Convention shall enter into force (in relation to the
States which have notified the Depositary) on the first day of the month
following the later of the dates on which the Depositary receives from the
United Kingdom and at least one other party notification of completion of
their respective internal requirements and procedures for entry into force of
the Convention. For any other party which notifies the Depositary after this
date, the Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the month
following the date on which the Depositary receives that party’s notification.
In order to give effect to the Convention, therefore, His Majesty, in exercise
of the powers conferred upon Him by section 179(1)(a) and (2) of the Social
Security Administration Act 1992 and of all other powers enabling Him to do
so, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order as
follows:

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein)
(Norway) (Further provision in respect of Scotland) Order 2023 and comes into
force—

1.1.a

in relation to the United Kingdom and the first EEA EFTA State to notify the
Depositary in accordance with Article 74(1) and (2) (entry into force) of the
Convention set out in the schedule of the 2023 Order, on the first day of the
month following the later of the dates on which the Depositary receives the
notification of that EEA EFTA State and the United Kingdom , and

1.1.b

in relation to an EEA EFTA State which notifies the Depositary after the
notification given by the EEA EFTA State referred to in sub-paragraph (a) in
accordance with Article 74(1) and (3) of the Convention set out in the
schedule of the 2023 Order, on the first day of the month following the date
on which the Depositary receives the notification from that EEA EFTA State.

1.2

In this Order—

“ the 2023 Order ” means the Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein)
(Norway) Order 2023 , “the Depositary” is to be interpreted in accordance with
Article 73(2) (authentic text and depositary) of the Convention set out in the
schedule of the 2023 Order, and “ EEA EFTA State ” has the meaning given to it
in Article 1(o) (definitions) of the Convention set out in the schedule of the
2023 Order.

### Application of article 2 of the 2023 Order


2

Paragraphs (1) and (2) of article 2 of the 2023 Order (modification of
legislation) apply insofar as—

2.a

it is within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament to make the
modification paragraph (1) of article 2 of that Order describes, and

2.b

the 2023 Order does not make that modification.

### Application of article 3 of the 2023 Order

3

The legislation described by article 3 of the 2023 Order (variation of orders)
is varied in accordance with Article 78 (relationship with pre-existing Social
Security Coordination Agreements) of the Convention set out in the schedule of
that Order so far as such legislation relates to Scotland  and it would be
within the legislative competence  of the Scottish Parliament to make the
variation if it were contained in an Act of the Scottish Parliament.

Richard Tilbrook Clerk of the Privy Council

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision for the modification of certain social security
legislation, so far as it relates to devolved matters, so as to give effect to
the Convention on Social Security Coordination between Iceland, the
Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed at London on 30 June 2023 (“ the
Convention ”). It does so by applying the modifications provided for by
article 2 of the Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein) (Norway) Order 2023
(“ the 2023 Order ”), where the legislation being modified in the 2023 Order
relates to a matter which falls within the legislative competence of the
Scottish Parliament, and in relation to which competence for the exercise of
functions has transferred to the Scottish Ministers. The Convention is set out
in the schedule of the 2023 Order.

  This Order has effect from the date on which the Convention enters into
force in accordance with Article 74 (entry into force) of the Convention.
Article 74 provides that the States shall notify the Depositary in writing of
completion of their respective internal requirements and procedures for entry
into force of the Convention. The Convention shall enter into force in
relation to those States which have notified the Depositary, on the first day
of the month following the later of the dates on which the Depositary receives
the notifications of at least one EEA EFTA State and the United Kingdom. Where
an EEA EFTA State notifies the Depositary after this date, the Convention
shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date on
which the Depositary receives that State’s notification.

  This Order does not impose any costs on business, charities or the voluntary
sector. Accordingly, no Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been
prepared.

