Title: The Iran (Sanctions) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-09-24
Description: These Regulations are made under the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (c. 13) to establish a sanctions regime in relation to Iran for the purpose of encouraging the Government of Iran to comply with international human rights law and to respect human rights and to deter the Government of Iran or an armed group backed by the Government of Iran from conducting hostile activity against the United Kingdom and other countries.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1314

## The Iran (Sanctions) Regulations 2023

  Regulations made by the Secretary of State, laid before Parliament under
section 55(3) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018, for
approval by resolution of each House of Parliament within twenty-eight days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made, subject to extension
for periods of dissolution or prorogation or during which both Houses are
adjourned for more than four days.

    Sanctions

  Made   11th December 2023

  Laid before Parliament   13th December 2023

  Coming into force   14th December 2023

      The Secretary of State , in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
1(1)(c) and (3)(b), 3(1)(a), (b)(ii), (d)(i) and (ii), 3A(1), 4, 5, 7(1) to
(5) and (8), 9(2)(a), 10(2) to (4), 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21(1),
45(1)(a), 54(1) and (2), 62(4) to (6) of, and paragraphs 2(b), 4(b) and (c),
5(a)(ii) and (b), 6(a)(ii) and (b), 11(a)(ii) and (iii), 13(b), (h), (k), (l),
(m), (n) and (w), 14(a), (f) and (k), 17(a), 19(a), 20 to 23 and 27 of
Schedule 1 to, the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018  makes the
following Regulations:

### General

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Iran (Sanctions) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 14th December 2023.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018;
“ armed group backed by the Government of Iran ” includes any armed group
which—         is being or has been armed, trained or funded by the Government
of Iran,           is taking or has taken direction from the Government of
Iran, or           is acting or has acted for the benefit of the Government of
Iran;                 “ arrangement ” includes any agreement, understanding,
scheme, transaction or series of transactions, whether or not legally
enforceable (but see paragraph 12 of Schedule 1 for the meaning of that term
in that Schedule);           “ CEMA ” means the Customs and Excise Management
Act 1979 ;           “ the Commissioners ” means the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;           “ conduct ” includes acts and
omissions;           “ director disqualification licence ” means a licence
under regulation 61;           “ document ” includes information recorded in
any form and, in relation to information recorded otherwise than in legible
form, references to its production include producing a copy of the information
in legible form;           “ the Dual-Use Regulation ” means Council
Regulation  (EC) No 428/2009  of 5 May 2009 setting up a Community regime for
the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items;
“ the Government of Iran ” includes its public bodies, corporations or
agencies, its armed forces or any person acting on its behalf or at its
direction;           “ serious human rights violation or abuse ” means a
serious violation or abuse of any of the human rights specified in regulation
4;           “ trade licence ” means a licence under regulation 62;
“ Treasury licence ” means a licence under regulation 60(1);           “
United Kingdom person ” has the same meaning as in section 21 of the Act.

#### Application of prohibitions and requirements outside the United Kingdom

3

3.1

A United Kingdom person may contravene a relevant prohibition by conduct
wholly or partly outside the United Kingdom.

3.2

Any person may contravene a relevant prohibition by conduct in the territorial
sea.

3.3

In this regulation a “ relevant prohibition ” means any prohibition imposed—

3.3.a

by regulation  11(2)  or 13(2) (confidential information),

3.3.b

by Part 3 (Finance),

3.3.c

by Part 6 (Trade),

3.3.d

by or under Part 7 (Ships), or

3.3.e

by a condition of a Treasury licence or a trade licence.

3.4

A United Kingdom person may comply, or fail to comply, with a relevant
requirement by conduct wholly or partly outside the United Kingdom.

3.5

Any person may comply, or fail to comply, with a relevant requirement by
conduct in the territorial sea.

3.6

In this regulation a “ relevant requirement ” means any requirement imposed—

3.6.a

by or under Part 9 (Information and records), or by reason of a request made
under a power conferred by that Part,

3.6.b

by a condition of a Treasury licence or a trade licence, or

3.6.c

by a direction under regulation 48 (movement of ships).

3.7

Nothing in this regulation is to be taken to prevent a relevant prohibition or
a relevant requirement from applying to conduct (by any person) in the United
Kingdom.

#### Purposes

4

4.1

The purposes of the regulations contained in this instrument that are made
under section 1 of the Act are—

4.1.a

to encourage the Government of Iran to comply with international human rights
law and to respect human rights, including in particular, to—

4.1.a.i

respect the right to life of persons in Iran, for example by refraining from
the execution of juvenile offenders in all circumstances;

4.1.a.ii

respect the right of persons not to be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman
or degrading treatment or punishment in Iran, including—

4.1.a.ii.aa

torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment with a view to extracting
information from detained persons,

4.1.a.ii.bb

inhuman and degrading conditions in prisons, and

4.1.a.ii.cc

forms of punishment such as flogging and amputation;

4.1.a.iii

respect the right to liberty and security, including refraining from the
arbitrary arrest and detention of persons in Iran;

4.1.a.iv

afford persons in Iran charged with criminal offences the right to a fair
trial;

4.1.a.v

afford journalists, human rights defenders and other persons in Iran the right
to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly;

4.1.a.vi

secure the human rights of persons in Iran without discrimination, including
on the basis of a person’s sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or
other opinion, national or social origin, association with a national
minority, property, birth or other status;

4.1.b

to deter the Government of Iran or an armed group backed by the Government of
Iran from conducting hostile activity against the United Kingdom or any other
country.

4.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), “ hostile activity ” means activity
falling within regulation 8(3).

### Designation of persons

#### Power to designate persons

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may designate persons by name for the purposes of any
of the following—

5.1.a

regulations 15 to 19 (asset-freeze etc.);

5.1.b

regulation 21 (director disqualification sanctions);

5.1.c

regulation 22 (immigration);

5.1.d

regulations 46 and 48 to 50 (ships: prohibition on port entry etc.).

5.2

The Secretary of State may provide that persons of a description specified by
the Secretary of State are designated persons for the purposes of any of the
following—

5.2.a

regulations 15 to 19 (asset-freeze etc.);

5.2.b

regulation 22 (immigration);

5.2.c

regulations 46 and 48 to 50 (ships: prohibition on port entry etc.).

5.3

The Secretary of State may designate different persons for the purposes of
different provisions mentioned in paragraph (1) or (2).

5.4

For the purposes of these Regulations, persons “designated under regulation 5”
for the purpose of a particular regulation means—

5.4.a

persons who are designated by name under paragraph (1) for the purposes of
that particular regulation, and

5.4.b

where the Secretary of State makes provision under paragraph (2) that persons
of a specified description are designated persons for the purposes of that
particular regulation, persons of that description.

#### Conditions for the designation of persons by name

6

6.1

This regulation applies to a person designated under regulation 5(1) (power to
designate persons by name).

6.2

The Secretary of State may choose whether to designate a person under—

6.2.a

the standard procedure, or

6.2.b

the urgent procedure.

6.3

Paragraph (4) applies where the Secretary of State chooses to designate a
person under the standard procedure.

6.4

The Secretary of State may not designate a person except where condition A is
met.

6.5

Paragraphs (6) to (8) apply where the Secretary of State chooses to designate
a person under the urgent procedure.

6.6

The Secretary of State may designate a person where condition A is not met,
but conditions B and C are met.

6.7

A person ceases to be a designated person at the end of the period of 56 days
beginning with the day following the day on which the person became a
designated person unless, within that period, the Secretary of State certifies
that—

6.7.a

condition A is met, or

6.7.b

conditions B and C continue to be met.

6.8

Where the Secretary of State makes a certification under paragraph (7)(b), the
designation ceases to have effect at the end of the period of 56 days
beginning with the day immediately following the period mentioned in paragraph
(7), unless within that period the Secretary of State certifies that condition
A is met.

6.9

Condition A is that the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to suspect
that that person is an involved person.

6.10

Condition B is that relevant provision (whenever made) applies under the law
of—

6.10.a

the United States of America;

6.10.b

the European Union;

6.10.c

Australia;

6.10.d

Canada.

6.11

Condition C is that the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public
interest to designate a person under the urgent procedure.

6.12

For the purposes of Condition B, “relevant provision” is provision that the
Secretary of State considers—

6.12.a

corresponds, or is similar, to the type of sanction or sanctions in these
Regulations, or

6.12.b

is made for purposes corresponding, or similar, to any purpose of any type of
sanction or sanctions in these Regulations.

6.13

In this regulation “ involved person ” has the meaning given in regulation 8
(designation criteria: meaning of “involved person”).

#### Conditions for the designation of persons by description

7

7.1

This regulation applies to persons designated under regulation 5(2) (power to
designate persons by description).

7.2

The Secretary of State may choose whether to designate persons under—

7.2.a

the standard procedure, or

7.2.b

the urgent procedure.

7.3

Paragraph (4) applies where the Secretary of State chooses to designate
persons under the standard procedure.

7.4

The Secretary of State may not designate persons except where conditions A and
C are met.

7.5

Paragraphs (6) to (8) apply where the Secretary of State chooses to designate
persons under the urgent procedure.

7.6

The Secretary of State may designate persons where condition C is not met, but
conditions A, D and E are met.

7.7

The persons cease to be designated persons at the end of the period of 56 days
beginning with the day following the day on which the persons became
designated persons unless, within that period, the Secretary of State
certifies that—

7.7.a

conditions A and C are met, or

7.7.b

conditions A, D and E continue to be met.

7.8

Where the Secretary of State makes a certification under paragraph (7)(b), the
designation ceases to have effect at the end of the period of 56 days
beginning with the day immediately following the period mentioned in paragraph
(7), unless within that period the Secretary of State certifies that
conditions A and C are met.

7.9

Condition A is that the description of persons specified is such that a
reasonable person would know whether that person fell within it.

7.10

Condition C is that the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to suspect—

7.10.a

in a case where the specified description is members of a particular
organisation, that the organisation is an involved person, or

7.10.b

in the case of any other specified description, that any person falling within
that description would necessarily be an involved person.

7.11

Condition D is that the description of persons specified is of persons (or
some persons) to which, or in relation to which, relevant provision (whenever
made) applies under the law of—

7.11.a

the United States of America;

7.11.b

the European Union;

7.11.c

Australia;

7.11.d

Canada.

7.12

Condition E is that the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public
interest to designate persons under the urgent procedure.

7.13

For the purposes of condition D, “relevant provision” is provision that the
Secretary of State considers—

7.13.a

corresponds, or is similar, to the type of sanction or sanctions in these
Regulations, or

7.13.b

is made for purposes corresponding, or similar, to any purpose of any type of
sanction or sanctions in these Regulations.

7.14

In this regulation—

      “ involved person ” has the meaning given in regulation 8 (designation
criteria: meaning of “involved person”);           “ organisation ” includes
any body, association or combination of persons.

#### Designation criteria: meaning of “involved person”

8

8.1

For the purposes of regulations 6(9) (conditions for the designation of
persons by name) and 7(10) (conditions for the designation of persons by
description), an “ involved person ” means a person who—

8.1.a

is or has been involved in—

8.1.a.i

the commission of a serious human rights violation or abuse in Iran;

8.1.a.ii

hostile activity by the Government of Iran;

8.1.a.iii

hostile activity by an armed group backed by the Government of Iran,

8.1.b

is owned or controlled directly or indirectly (within the meaning of
regulation 9) by a person who is or has been so involved,

8.1.c

is acting on behalf of or at the direction of a person who is or has been so
involved, or

8.1.d

is a member of, or associated with, a person who is or has been so involved.

8.2

Any reference in this regulation to being involved in the commission of a
serious human rights violation or abuse in Iran includes being so involved in
whatever way and wherever any actions constituting the involvement take place,
and in particular includes—

8.2.a

being responsible for, engaging in, providing support for, or promoting, any
serious human rights violation or abuse in Iran;

8.2.b

providing financial services, or making available funds or economic resources,
that could contribute to any serious human rights violation or abuse in Iran;

8.2.c

being involved in the supply to Iran of restricted goods or restricted
technology or of material related to such goods or technology, or in providing
financial services relating to such supply;

8.2.d

being involved in the supply to Iran of goods or technology which could
contribute to any serious human rights violation or abuse in Iran, or in
providing financial services relating to such supply;

8.2.e

being involved in assisting the contravention or circumvention of any relevant
provision.

8.3

Any reference in this regulation to being involved in hostile activity by the
Government of Iran or hostile activity by an armed group backed by the
Government of Iran includes being so involved in whatever way and wherever any
actions constituting the involvement take place, and in particular includes—

8.3.a

threatening, planning or conducting attacks against persons and assets in the
United Kingdom or any other country including—

8.3.a.i

assassination, kidnap, threats to life, physical threat, assault, harassment,
intimidation;

8.3.a.ii

sabotage of assets;

8.3.b

threatening, planning or conducting attacks against ships including the
detention and sabotage of ships;

8.3.c

threatening, planning or conducting activity which is intended to cause the
destabilisation of the United Kingdom or any other country including—

8.3.c.i

activity which undermines or is intended to undermine—

8.3.c.i.aa

the integrity, prosperity or security of the United Kingdom or any other
country;

8.3.c.i.bb

the resolution of any armed conflict or the protection of civilians in
conflict zones;

8.3.c.ii

activity which aids or facilitates serious organised crime in the United
Kingdom or any other country;

8.3.d

planning or conducting espionage for the Government of Iran;

8.3.e

carrying on business in the Iranian defence sector;

8.3.f

8.3.f.i

owning or controlling directly or indirectly (within the meaning of regulation
9), or

8.3.f.ii

working as a director (whether executive or non-executive), trustee, or other
manager or equivalent, of, or

8.3.f.iii

holding the right, directly or indirectly, to nominate at least one director
(whether executive or non-executive), trustee or equivalent of,

a person, other than an individual, which falls within sub-paragraph (e);

8.3.g

any conduct which facilitates (or is intended to facilitate) or gives support
or assistance to activity falling within sub-paragraphs (a) to (e);

8.3.h

being involved in assisting the contravention or circumvention of any relevant
provision.

8.4

In paragraph (1)(d), being “associated with” a person includes—

8.4.a

obtaining a financial benefit or other material benefit from that person;

8.4.b

being an immediate family member of that person.

8.5

In paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) (as the case may be)—

      “ asset ” means an asset of any kind whether tangible or intangible and
includes in particular real and personal property, electronic systems and
information, and ships;           “ carrying on business in the Iranian
defence sector ” includes—         supplying and exporting controlled goods
and controlled technology to Iran;           developing and stockpiling
controlled goods and controlled technology in Iran;           importing
controlled goods and controlled technology into Iran;                 “
espionage ” includes, without authority—         obtaining, copying, recording
or retaining protected information or a trade secret,           disclosing or
providing access to protected information or a trade secret,
entering a restricted place,           materially assisting the Iranian
intelligence services;                 “ immediate family member ” means—
a wife or husband;           a civil partner;           a parent or step-
parent;           a child or step-child;           a sibling or step-sibling;
a niece or nephew;           an aunt or uncle;           a grandparent;
a grandchild;                 “integrity”, in respect of a country, includes—
the exercise of governmental functions of that country;           the exercise
of parliamentary functions in that country;           the functioning of
bodies, organisations or institutions involved in public elections or the
voting process;           the operation of the criminal or civil justice
system in that country;           the provision of essential services to the
population, including banking, education, energy, healthcare, sewerage,
transport or water;           the operation of critical national
infrastructure;           the functioning of free and independent news media;
“prosperity”, in respect of a country, includes the effective functioning of
the economy, or part of it, of that country;           “ relevant provision ”
means—         any provision of Part 3 (Finance), Part 6 (Trade) or Part 7
(Ships);           any provision of the law of a country other than the United
Kingdom made for purposes corresponding to a purpose of any provision of Part
3 (Finance), Part 6 (Trade) or Part 7 (Ships);                 “restricted
goods” and “restricted technology” have the meanings given by Part 6;
“ sabotage ” means conduct that results in (or is intended to result in)
damage to any asset;           “ ship ” includes every description of vessel
(including a hovercraft) used in navigation.

8.6

In paragraph (5)—

      “ controlled goods ” means the goods specified in Schedules 1, 2 and 3
to the Export Control Order 2008 ;           “ controlled technology ” means
any thing which is described in Schedules 2 and 3 to the Export Control Order
2008 as software or technology within the meaning of those Schedules;
“ damage ” includes any of the following (whether permanent or temporary)—
destruction;           alteration;           contamination;
interference;           loss of or reduction in access or availability;
loss of or reduction in function, utility or reliability;                 “
disclosing protected information or a trade secret ” includes parting with
possession;           “ entering a restricted place ” means—
accessing, entering, inspecting, passing over or under, approaching or being
in the vicinity of a restricted place, or           causing an unmanned
vehicle or device to enter, inspect, pass over or under, approach or be in the
vicinity of a restricted place,         whether that conduct is carried out in
person, or by electronic or remote means;           “ Iranian intelligence
services ” includes—         the Ministry of Intelligence and Security;
the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Intelligence Organisation;           the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Quds Force;                 “ materially
assisting the Iranian intelligence services ” includes providing, or providing
access to, information, goods, services or financial benefits (whether
directly or indirectly);           “ restricted place ” means any vehicle,
building or land in the United Kingdom or in any other country which is used,
at the time of entry, for the defence or security of the United Kingdom or any
other country;           “ protected information ” means any information,
document or other article where, for the purpose of protecting the safety or
interests of the United Kingdom or a country other than Iran—         access
to the information, document or other article is restricted in any way, or
it is reasonable to expect that access to the information, document or other
article would be restricted in any way;                 “ retaining protected
information or a trade secret ” means a person retains it in their possession
or under their control;           “ trade secret ” means any information,
document or other article which—         is not generally known by, or
available to, persons with knowledge of or expertise in the field to which it
relates,           has actual or potential industrial, economic or commercial
value which would be, or could reasonably be expected to be, adversely
affected if it became generally known by, or available to, such persons, and
could reasonably be expected to be subject to measures to prevent it becoming
generally known by, or available to, such persons (whether or not it is
actually subject to such measures).

8.7

In paragraph (6)—

      “ building ” includes any part of a building;           “ financial
benefits ” means money or money’s worth;           “ vehicle ” means any form
of transport.

8.8

Nothing in any sub-paragraph of paragraphs (2) or (3) is to be taken to limit
the meaning of any of the other sub-paragraphs of those paragraphs.

#### Meaning of “owned or controlled directly or indirectly”

9

9.1

A person who is not an individual (“ C ”) is “owned or controlled directly or
indirectly” by another person (“ P ”) if either of the following two
conditions is met (or both are met).

9.2

The first condition is that P—

9.2.a

holds directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares in C,

9.2.b

holds directly or indirectly more than 50% of the voting rights in C, or

9.2.c

holds the right directly or indirectly to appoint or remove a majority of the
board of directors of C.

9.3

Schedule 1 contains provision applying for the purpose of interpreting
paragraph (2).

9.4

The second condition is that it is reasonable, having regard to all the
circumstances, to expect that P would (if P chose to) be able, in most cases
or in significant respects, by whatever means and whether directly or
indirectly, to achieve the result that affairs of C are conducted in
accordance with P’s wishes.

#### Notification and publicity where power to designate by name is used

10

10.1

Paragraph (2) applies where the Secretary of State—

10.1.a

has made a designation under regulation 5(1), or

10.1.b

has by virtue of section 22 of the Act varied or revoked a designation made
under that regulation.

10.2

The Secretary of State—

10.2.a

must without delay take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform the
designated person of the designation, variation or revocation, and

10.2.b

must take steps to publicise the designation, variation or revocation.

10.3

The information given under paragraph (2)(a)—

10.3.a

where the Secretary of State designates a person under the standard procedure,
must include a statement of reasons, or

10.3.b

where the Secretary of State designates a person under the urgent procedure,
must include a statement—

10.3.b.i

that the provision is made under the urgent procedure,

10.3.b.ii

identifying the relevant provision by reference to which the Secretary of
State considers that condition B is met in relation to the person, and

10.3.b.iii

setting out why the Secretary of State considers that condition C is met.

10.4

Where the Secretary of State designates a person under the urgent procedure,
the Secretary of State must, after the end of the period mentioned in
paragraph (7) of regulation 6 (conditions for the designation of persons by
name), or if the Secretary of State has made a certification under paragraph
(7)(b) of that regulation, the period mentioned in paragraph (8) of that
regulation, but otherwise without delay—

10.4.a

in a case where the person ceases to be a designated person, take such steps
as are reasonably practicable to inform the person that they have ceased to be
a designated person, or

10.4.b

in any other case, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to give the
person a statement of reasons.

10.5

In this regulation, a “ statement of reasons ” means a brief statement of the
matters that the Secretary of State knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect,
in relation to that person—

10.5.a

in the case of a designation under the standard procedure, which have led the
Secretary of State to make the designation, and

10.5.b

in the case of a designation under the urgent procedure, as a result of which
the person does not cease to be a designated person at the end of the period
mentioned in regulation 6(7) or (8) (as the case may be).

10.6

Matters that would otherwise be required by paragraph (5) to be included in a
statement of reasons may be excluded from it where the Secretary of State
considers that they should be excluded—

10.6.a

in the interests of national security or international relations,

10.6.b

for reasons connected with the prevention or detection of serious crime in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

10.6.c

in the interests of justice.

10.7

The steps taken under paragraph (2)(b) must—

10.7.a

unless one or more of the restricted publicity conditions is met, be steps to
publicise generally—

10.7.a.i

the designation, variation or revocation, and

10.7.a.ii

in the case of a designation, the statement of reasons relating to it;

10.7.b

if one or more of those conditions is met, be steps to inform only such
persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate of the designation,
variation or revocation and (in the case of a designation) the statement of
reasons.

10.8

The “restricted publicity conditions” are that the Secretary of State
considers that disclosure of the designation, variation or revocation should
be restricted—

10.8.a

in the interests of national security or international relations,

10.8.b

for reasons connected with the prevention or detection of serious crime in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

10.8.c

in the interests of justice.

10.9

Paragraph (10) applies if—

10.9.a

when a designation is made one or more of the restricted publicity conditions
is met, but

10.9.b

at any time when the designation has effect, it becomes the case that none of
the restricted publicity conditions is met.

10.10

The Secretary of State must—

10.10.a

take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform the designated person
that none of the restricted publicity conditions is now met, and

10.10.b

take steps to publicise generally the designation and the statement of reasons
relating to it.

#### Confidential information in certain cases where power to designate by name is used

11

11.1

Where the Secretary of State, in accordance with regulation 10(7)(b), informs
only certain persons of a designation, variation or revocation and, in the
case of a designation, the content of the statement of reasons relating to it,
the Secretary of State may specify that any of that information is to be
treated as confidential.

11.2

A person (“ P ”) who—

11.2.a

is provided with information that is to be treated as confidential in
accordance with paragraph (1), or

11.2.b

otherwise obtains such information,

must not, subject to paragraph  (3) , disclose it if P knows, or has
reasonable cause to suspect, that the information is to be treated as
confidential.

11.3

The prohibition in paragraph  (2)  does not apply to any disclosure made by P
with lawful authority.

11.4

For this purpose information is disclosed with lawful authority only if and to
the extent that—

11.4.a

the disclosure is by, or is authorised by, the Secretary of State,

11.4.b

the disclosure is by or with the consent of the person who is or was the
subject of the designation,

11.4.c

the disclosure is necessary to give effect to a requirement imposed under or
by virtue of these Regulations or any other enactment, or

11.4.d

the disclosure is required, under rules of court, tribunal rules or a court or
tribunal order, for the purposes of legal proceedings of any description.

11.5

This regulation does not prevent the disclosure of information that is
already, or has previously been, available to the public from other sources.

11.6

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph  (2)  commits an
offence.

11.7

The High Court (in Scotland, the Court of Session) may, on the application of—

11.7.a

the person who is the subject of the information, or

11.7.b

the Secretary of State,

grant an injunction (in Scotland, an interdict) to prevent a breach of the
prohibition in paragraph  (2) .

11.8

In paragraph  (4)(c) , “ enactment ” has the meaning given by section 54(6) of
the Act.

#### Notification and publicity where power to designate by description is used

12

12.1

Paragraph (2) applies where the Secretary of State—

12.1.a

has provided that persons of a specified description are designated persons
under regulation 5(2) (power to designate persons by description), or

12.1.b

has by virtue of section 22 of the Act varied or revoked a designation made
under that regulation.

12.2

The Secretary of State—

12.2.a

must without delay take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform
persons of the specified description of the designation, variation or
revocation, and

12.2.b

must take steps to publicise the designation, variation or revocation.

12.3

The information given under paragraph (2)(a)—

12.3.a

where the Secretary of State provides that persons of a specified description
are designated persons under the standard procedure, must include a statement
of reasons, or

12.3.b

where the Secretary of State provides that persons of a specified description
are designated persons under the urgent procedure, must include a statement—

12.3.b.i

that the provision is made under the urgent procedure,

12.3.b.ii

identifying the relevant provision by reference to which the Secretary of
State considers that condition D is met in relation to persons of the
specified description, and

12.3.b.iii

setting out why the Secretary of State considers that condition E is met.

12.4

Where the Secretary of State provides that persons of a specified description
are designated persons under the urgent procedure, the Secretary of State
must, after the end of the period mentioned in paragraph (7) of regulation 7
(conditions for the designation of persons by description), or if the
Secretary of State has made a certification under paragraph (7)(b) of that
regulation the period mentioned in paragraph (8) of that regulation, but
otherwise without delay—

12.4.a

in a case where the persons cease to be designated persons, take such steps as
are reasonably practicable to inform persons of the specified description that
they have ceased to be designated persons, or

12.4.b

in any other case, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to give each
person of the specified description a statement of reasons.

12.5

In this regulation, a “ statement of reasons ”, in relation to a provision
designating persons of a specified description, means a brief statement of the
matters that the Secretary of State knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect,
in relation to persons of the specified description—

12.5.a

in the case of a designation under the standard procedure, which have led the
Secretary of State to make the provision designating persons of that
description, and

12.5.b

in the case of a designation under the urgent procedure, as a result of which
the persons do not cease to be designated persons at the end of the period
mentioned in regulation 7(7) or (8) (as the case may be).

12.6

Matters that would otherwise be required by paragraph (5) to be included in a
statement of reasons may be excluded from it where the Secretary of State
considers that they should be excluded—

12.6.a

in the interests of national security or international relations,

12.6.b

for reasons connected with the prevention or detection of serious crime in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

12.6.c

in the interests of justice.

12.7

The steps taken under paragraph (2)(b) must—

12.7.a

unless one or more of the restricted publicity conditions is met, be steps to
publicise generally—

12.7.a.i

the designation, variation or revocation, and

12.7.a.ii

in the case of in the case of a designation, the statement of reasons relating
to it;

12.7.b

if one or more of those conditions is met, be steps to inform only such
persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate of the designation,
variation or revocation and (in the case of a designation) the statement of
reasons.

12.8

The “restricted publicity conditions” are that the Secretary of State
considers that disclosure of the designation, variation or revocation should
be restricted—

12.8.a

in the interests of national security or international relations,

12.8.b

for reasons connected with the prevention or detection of serious crime in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

12.8.c

in the interests of justice.

12.9

Paragraph (10) applies if—

12.9.a

when a designation is made one or more of the restricted publicity conditions
is met, but

12.9.b

at any time when the designation has effect, it becomes the case that none of
the restricted publicity conditions is met.

12.10

The Secretary of State must—

12.10.a

take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform persons of the
specified description that none of the restricted publicity conditions is now
met, and

12.10.b

take steps to publicise generally the designation and the statement of reasons
relating to it.

#### Confidential information in certain cases where power to designate by description is used

13

13.1

Where the Secretary of State, in accordance with regulation 12(7)(b), informs
only certain persons of a designation, variation or revocation and, in the
case of a designation, the content of the statement of reasons relating to it,
the Secretary of State may specify that any of that information is to be
treated as confidential.

13.2

A person (“ P ”) who—

13.2.a

is provided with information that is to be treated as confidential in
accordance with paragraph (1), or

13.2.b

otherwise obtains such information,

must not, subject to paragraph (3), disclose it if P knows, or has reasonable
cause to suspect, that the information is to be treated as confidential.

13.3

The prohibition in paragraph (2) does not apply to any disclosure made by P
with lawful authority.

13.4

For this purpose information is disclosed with lawful authority only if and to
the extent that—

13.4.a

the disclosure is by, or is authorised by, the Secretary of State,

13.4.b

the disclosure is by or with the consent of the person who is or was the
subject of the designation,

13.4.c

the disclosure is necessary to give effect to a requirement imposed under or
by virtue of these Regulations or any other enactment, or

13.4.d

the disclosure is required under rules of court, tribunal rules or a court or
tribunal order, for the purposes of legal proceedings of any description.

13.5

This regulation does not prevent the disclosure of information that is
already, or has previously been, available to the public from other sources.

13.6

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (2) commits an offence.

13.7

The High Court (in Scotland, the Court of Session) may, on the application of—

13.7.a

the person who is the subject of the information, or

13.7.b

the Secretary of State,

grant an injunction (in Scotland, an interdict) to prevent a breach of the
prohibition in paragraph (2).

13.8

In paragraph (4)(c), “ enactment ” has the meaning given by section 54(6) of
the Act.

### Finance

#### Meaning of “designated person” in Part 3

14

In this Part a “ designated person ” means a person who is designated under
regulation 5 for the purposes of regulations 15 to 19.

#### Asset-freeze in relation to designated persons

15

15.1

A person (“ P ”) must not deal with funds or economic resources owned, held or
controlled by a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to
suspect, that P is dealing with such funds or economic resources.

15.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

15.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

15.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a person “deals with” funds if the person—

15.4.a

uses, alters, moves, transfers or allows access to the funds,

15.4.b

deals with the funds in any other way that would result in any change in
volume, amount, location, ownership, possession, character or destination, or

15.4.c

makes any other change, including portfolio management, that would enable use
of the funds.

15.5

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a person “deals with” economic resources if
the person—

15.5.a

exchanges the economic resources for funds, goods or services, or

15.5.b

uses the economic resources in exchange for funds, goods or services (whether
by pledging them as security or otherwise).

15.6

The reference in paragraph (1) to funds or economic resources that are “owned,
held or controlled” by a person includes, in particular, a reference to—

15.6.a

funds or economic resources in which the person has any legal or equitable
interest, regardless of whether the interest is held jointly with any other
person and regardless of whether any other person holds an interest in the
funds or economic resources;

15.6.b

any tangible property (other than real property), or bearer security, that is
comprised in funds or economic resources and is in the possession of the
person.

15.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1), funds or economic resources are to be
treated as owned, held or controlled by a designated person if they are owned,
held or controlled by a person who is owned or controlled directly or
indirectly (within the meaning of regulation 9) by the designated person.

15.8

For the avoidance of doubt, the reference in paragraph (1) to a designated
person includes P if P is a designated person.

#### Making funds available to designated persons

16

16.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make funds available directly or indirectly to a
designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that P is
making the funds so available.

16.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

16.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

16.4

The reference in paragraph (1) to making funds available indirectly to a
designated person includes, in particular, a reference to making them
available to a person who is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
(within the meaning of regulation 9) by the designated person.

#### Making funds available for benefit of designated persons

17

17.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make funds available to any person for the benefit
of a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that P
is making the funds so available.

17.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

17.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

17.4

For the purposes of this regulation—

17.4.a

funds are made available for the benefit of a designated person only if that
person thereby obtains, or is able to obtain, a significant financial benefit,
and

17.4.b

“ financial benefit ” includes the discharge (or partial discharge) of a
financial obligation for which the designated person is wholly or partly
responsible.

#### Making economic resources available to designated persons

18

18.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make economic resources available directly or
indirectly to a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to
suspect—

18.1.a

that P is making the economic resources so available, and

18.1.b

that the designated person would be likely to exchange the economic resources
for, or use them in exchange for, funds, goods or services.

18.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

18.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

18.4

The reference in paragraph (1) to making economic resources available
indirectly to a designated person includes, in particular, a reference to
making them available to a person who is owned or controlled directly or
indirectly (within the meaning of regulation 9) by the designated person.

#### Making economic resources available for benefit of designated persons

19

19.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make economic resources available to any person for
the benefit of a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to
suspect, that P is making the economic resources so available.

19.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

19.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

19.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

19.4.a

economic resources are made available for the benefit of a designated person
only if that person thereby obtains, or is able to obtain, a significant
financial benefit, and

19.4.b

“ financial benefit ” includes the discharge (or partial discharge) of a
financial obligation for which the designated person is wholly or partly
responsible.

#### Circumventing etc. prohibitions

20

20.1

A person must not intentionally participate in activities knowing that the
object or effect of them is, whether directly or indirectly—

20.1.a

to circumvent any of the prohibitions in regulations 15 to 19, or

20.1.b

to enable or facilitate the contravention of any such prohibition.

20.2

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

### Director disqualification sanctions

#### Director disqualification sanctions

21

A person who is designated under regulation 5 (power to designate persons) for
the purposes of this regulation is subject to director disqualification
sanctions for the purposes of—

21.a

section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 , and

21.b

Article 15A of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order
2002 .

### Immigration

#### Immigration

22

A person who is designated under regulation 5 for the purposes of this
regulation is an excluded person for the purposes of section 8B of the
Immigration Act 1971 .

### Trade

#### Interpretation

##### Definition of “restricted goods” and “restricted technology”

23

In this Part—

      “ restricted goods ” means—         internal repression goods, and
interception and monitoring goods;                 “ restricted technology ”
means—         internal repression technology, and           interception and
monitoring technology.

##### Definition of “internal repression goods” and “internal repression technology”

24

For the purposes of regulation 23—

      “ internal repression goods ” means—         any thing specified in
Schedule 2, other than—         any thing which is internal repression
technology, or           any thing for the time being specified in—
Schedule 2 to the Export Control Order 2008, or           Annex Ⅰ of the Dual-
Use Regulation, and                       any tangible storage medium on which
internal repression technology is recorded or from which it can be derived;
“ internal repression technology ” means any thing which is described in
Schedule 2 as software or technology, within the meaning of that Schedule.

##### Definition of “interception and monitoring goods” and “interception and monitoring technology”

25

25.1

The following definitions apply for the purposes of regulation 23.

25.2

“ Interception and monitoring goods ” means any item mentioned in sub-
paragraph (a) or (b), provided that it may be used for interception and
monitoring services—

25.2.a

a relevant Schedule 3 item;

25.2.b

any tangible storage medium on which interception and monitoring technology is
recorded or from which it can be derived.

25.3

“ A relevant Schedule 3 item ” means any thing described in Schedule 3, other
than—

25.3.a

any thing which is interception and monitoring technology, or

25.3.b

any thing for the time being specified in—

25.3.b.i

Schedule 2 to the Export Control Order 2008, or

25.3.b.ii

Annex Ⅰ of the Dual-Use Regulation.

25.4

“ Interception and monitoring technology ” means any thing—

25.4.a

which is described as software in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 provided that it
may be used for interception and monitoring services, and

25.4.b

which is described as software or other technology in paragraph 3 of Schedule
3,

(but see paragraph (5)).

25.5

The definition of “interception and monitoring technology” does not apply to
software which is—

25.5.a

generally available to the public, or

25.5.b

in the public domain.

25.6

For the purpose of paragraph (5)—

25.6.a

software is “generally available to the public” if—

25.6.a.i

the software is sold from stock at retail selling points without restriction,
by means of—

25.6.a.i.aa

over the counter transactions,

25.6.a.i.bb

mail order transactions,

25.6.a.i.cc

electronic transactions, or

25.6.a.i.dd

telephone order transactions, and

25.6.a.ii

the software is designed for installation by the user without further
substantial support by the supplier;

25.6.b

software is “in the public domain” if the software has been made available
without restrictions upon its further dissemination (and for this purpose
copyright restrictions do not constitute a restriction upon its further
dissemination).

##### Definition of “interception and monitoring services”

26

26.1

For the purposes of this Part, “ interception and monitoring services ” means
any service that has as its object or effect the interception of a
communication in the course of its transmission by means of a
telecommunication system.

26.2

A person intercepts a communication in the course of its transmission by means
of a telecommunication system if, and only if—

26.2.a

the person does a relevant act in relation to the system, and

26.2.b

the effect of the relevant act is to make any content of the communication
available, at a relevant time, to a person who is not the sender or intended
recipient of the communication.

26.3

In paragraph (2), a “ relevant act ”, in relation to a telecommunication
system, means—

26.3.a

modifying, or interfering with, the system or its operation;

26.3.b

monitoring transmissions made by means of the system;

26.3.c

monitoring transmissions made by wireless telegraphy to or from apparatus that
is part of the system.

26.4

In paragraph (2), a “ relevant time ”, in relation to a communication
transmitted by means of a telecommunication system, means—

26.4.a

any time while the communication is being transmitted, and

26.4.b

any time when the communication is stored in or by the system (whether before
or after its transmission).

26.5

For the purpose of paragraph (2), the cases in which any content of a
communication is to be taken to be made available to a person at a relevant
time include any case in which any of the communication is diverted or
recorded at a relevant time so as to make the content of the communication
available to a person after that time.

26.6

In paragraph (3), references to modifying a telecommunication system include
references to attaching any apparatus to, or otherwise modifying or
interfering with—

26.6.a

any part of the system, or

26.6.b

any wireless telegraphy apparatus used for making transmissions to or from
apparatus that is part of the system.

26.7

For the purposes of this regulation, the following definitions also apply—

      “ apparatus ” includes any equipment, machinery or device (whether
physical or logical) and any wire or cable;           “communication”, for the
purpose of a telecommunication system, includes—         anything comprising
speech, music, sounds, visual images or data of any description, and
signals serving for the impartation of anything between persons, between a
person and a thing or between things, for the actuation or control of any
apparatus;                 “ content ”, in relation to a communication and a
telecommunication system, means any element of the communication, or any data
attached to or logically associated with the communication, which reveals
anything of what might reasonably be considered to be the meaning (if any) of
the communication, but—         any meaning arising from the fact of the
communication or from any data relating to the transmission of the
communication is to be disregarded, and           anything which is systems
data is not content;                 “ systems data ” means any data that
enables or facilitates, or identifies or describes anything connected with
enabling or facilitating, the functioning of a telecommunication system
(including any apparatus forming part of the system);           “ a
telecommunication system ” means a system (including the apparatus comprised
in it) that exists for the purpose of facilitating the transmission of
communications by any means involving the use of electrical or electromagnetic
energy;           “ wireless telegraphy ” and “ wireless telegraphy apparatus
” have the same meaning as in sections 116 and 117 of the Wireless Telegraphy
Act 2006 .

##### Interpretation of other expressions used in this Part

27

27.1

Paragraphs 32 and 36 of Schedule 1 to the Act (trade sanctions) apply for the
purpose of interpreting expressions in this Part.

27.2

In this Part, any reference to the United Kingdom includes a reference to the
territorial sea.

27.3

In this Part—

      “ brokering service ” means any service to secure, or otherwise in
relation to, an arrangement, including (but not limited to)—         the
selection or introduction of persons as parties or potential parties to the
arrangement,           the negotiation of the arrangement,           the
facilitation of anything that enables the arrangement to be entered into, and
the provision of any assistance that in any way promotes or facilitates the
arrangement;                 “ technical assistance ”, in relation to goods or
technology, means—         technical support relating to the repair,
development, production, assembly, testing, use or maintenance of the goods or
technology, or           any other technical service relating to the goods or
technology;                 “ transfer ” has the meaning given by paragraph 37
of Schedule 1 to the Act.

27.4

For the purposes of this Part, a person is to be regarded as “connected with”
Iran if the person is—

27.4.a

an individual who is, or an association or combination of individuals who are,
ordinarily resident in Iran,

27.4.b

an individual who is, or an association or combination of individuals who are,
located in Iran,

27.4.c

a person, other than an individual, which is incorporated or constituted under
the law of Iran, or

27.4.d

a person, other than an individual, which is domiciled in Iran.

#### Restricted goods and restricted technology

##### Export of restricted goods

28

28.1

The export of restricted goods to, or for use in, Iran is prohibited.

28.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

##### Supply and delivery of restricted goods

29

29.1

A person must not directly or indirectly supply or deliver restricted goods
from a third country to a place in Iran.

29.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

29.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence to show that the
person did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that the goods were
destined (or ultimately destined) for Iran.

29.4

In this regulation, “ third country ” means a country that is not the United
Kingdom, the Isle of Man or Iran.

##### Making restricted goods and restricted technology available

30

30.1

A person must not—

30.1.a

directly or indirectly make restricted goods or restricted technology
available to a person connected with Iran;

30.1.b

directly or indirectly make restricted goods or restricted technology
available for use in Iran.

30.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

30.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but—

30.3.a

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(a) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the person was connected with Iran;

30.3.b

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(b) to show that the person did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the goods or technology were for use in Iran.

##### Transfer of restricted technology

31

31.1

A person must not—

31.1.a

transfer restricted technology to a place in Iran;

31.1.b

transfer restricted technology to a person connected with Iran.

31.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

31.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but—

31.3.a

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(a) to show that the person did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the transfer was to a place in Iran;

31.3.b

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(b) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the person was connected with Iran.

##### Technical assistance relating to restricted goods and restricted technology

32

32.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide technical assistance relating
to restricted goods or restricted technology—

32.1.a

to a person connected with Iran, or

32.1.b

for use in Iran.

32.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

32.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but—

32.3.a

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(a) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the person was connected with Iran;

32.3.b

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(b) to show that the person did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the goods or technology were for use in Iran.

##### Financial services and funds relating to restricted goods and restricted technology

33

33.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide, to a person connected with
Iran, financial services in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
whose object or effect is—

33.1.a

the export of restricted goods,

33.1.b

the direct or indirect supply or delivery of restricted goods,

33.1.c

directly or indirectly making restricted goods or restricted technology
available to a person,

33.1.d

the transfer of restricted technology, or

33.1.e

the direct or indirect provision of technical assistance relating to
restricted goods or restricted technology.

33.2

A person must not directly or indirectly make funds available to a person
connected with Iran in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
mentioned in paragraph (1).

33.3

A person must not directly or indirectly provide financial services or funds
in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement whose object or effect
is—

33.3.a

the export of restricted goods to, or for use in, Iran,

33.3.b

the direct or indirect supply or delivery of restricted goods to a place in
Iran,

33.3.c

directly or indirectly making restricted goods or restricted technology
available—

33.3.c.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

33.3.c.ii

for use in Iran,

33.3.d

the transfer of restricted technology—

33.3.d.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

33.3.d.ii

to a place in Iran, or

33.3.e

the direct or indirect provision of technical assistance relating to
restricted goods or restricted technology—

33.3.e.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

33.3.e.ii

for use in Iran.

33.4

Paragraphs (1) to (3) are subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

33.5

A person who contravenes a prohibition in any of paragraphs (1) to (3) commits
an offence, but—

33.5.a

it is a defence for a person charged with an offence of contravening paragraph
(1) or (2) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable cause to
suspect that the person was connected with Iran;

33.5.b

it is a defence for a person charged with an offence of contravening a
prohibition in paragraph (3) to show that the person did not know and had no
reasonable cause to suspect that the financial services or funds (as the case
may be) were provided in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
mentioned in that paragraph.

##### Brokering services: non-UK activity relating to restricted goods and restricted technology

34

34.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide brokering services in
relation to an arrangement (“arrangement A”) whose object or effect is—

34.1.a

the direct or indirect supply or delivery of restricted goods from a third
country to a place in Iran,

34.1.b

directly or indirectly making restricted goods available in a third country
for direct or indirect supply or delivery—

34.1.b.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

34.1.b.ii

to a place in Iran,

34.1.c

directly or indirectly making restricted technology available in a third
country for transfer—

34.1.c.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

34.1.c.ii

to a place in Iran,

34.1.d

the transfer of restricted technology from a place in a third country—

34.1.d.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

34.1.d.ii

to a place in Iran,

34.1.e

the direct or indirect provision, in a non-UK country, of technical assistance
relating to restricted goods or restricted technology—

34.1.e.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

34.1.e.ii

for use in Iran,

34.1.f

the direct or indirect provision, in a non-UK country, of financial services—

34.1.f.i

to a person connected with Iran, where arrangement A, or any other arrangement
in connection with which arrangement A is entered into, is an arrangement
mentioned in regulation 33(1), or

34.1.f.ii

where arrangement A, or any other arrangement in connection with which
arrangement A is entered into, is an arrangement mentioned in regulation
33(3),

34.1.g

directly or indirectly making funds available, in a non-UK country, to a
person connected with Iran, where arrangement A, or any other arrangement in
connection with which arrangement A is entered into, is an arrangement
mentioned in regulation 33(1), or

34.1.h

the direct or indirect provision of funds from a non-UK country, where
arrangement A, or any other arrangement in connection with which arrangement A
is entered into, is an arrangement mentioned in regulation 33(3).

34.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

34.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence to show that the
person did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that the brokering
services were provided in relation to an arrangement mentioned in that
paragraph.

34.4

In this regulation—

      “ non-UK country ” means a country that is not the United Kingdom;
“ third country ” means—         for the purposes of paragraph  (1)(a)  and
(b) , a country that is not the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man or Iran, and
for the purposes of any other provision of paragraph (1), a country that is
not the United Kingdom or Iran.

#### Interception and monitoring services

##### Provision of interception and monitoring services

35

35.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide interception and monitoring
services to, or for the benefit of, the Government of Iran.

35.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

35.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence (“ P ”) to show
that P did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that the services
were provided to, or for the benefit of, the Government of Iran.

####  

##### Interpretation

36

In this Chapter—

“ goods of strategic concern ” means any thing specified in Schedule 4, other
than— any thing which is technology of strategic concern, any tangible storage
medium on which technology of strategic concern is recorded or from which it
can be derived, any thing for the time being specified in— Schedule 2 of the
Export Control Order 2008, or Annex I of the Dual-Use Regulation, or any thing
for the time being falling within Chapter 1 of Part 5 of the Iran (Sanctions)
(Nuclear) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019; “ technology of strategic concern ”
means any thing which is described in Schedule 4 as software or technology,
within the meaning of that Schedule, other than— any thing for the time being
specified in— Schedule 2 of the Export Control Order 2008, or Annex I of the
Dual-Use Regulation, or any thing for the time being falling within Chapter 1
of Part 5 of the Iran (Sanctions) (Nuclear) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019.

##### Export of  

37

37.1

The export of  goods of strategic concern  to, or for use in, Iran is
prohibited.

37.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

##### Supply and delivery of  

38

38.1

A person must not directly or indirectly supply or deliver  goods of strategic
concern  from a third country to a place in Iran.

38.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

38.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence to show that the
person did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that the goods were
destined (or ultimately destined) for Iran.

38.4

In this regulation, “ third country ” means a country that is not the United
Kingdom, the Isle of Man or Iran.

##### Making  

39

39.1

A person must not—

39.1.a

directly or indirectly make  goods of strategic concern  or  technology of
strategic concern  available to a person connected with Iran;

39.1.b

directly or indirectly make  goods of strategic concern  or  technology of
strategic concern  available for use in Iran.

39.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

39.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but—

39.3.a

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(a) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the person was connected with Iran;

39.3.b

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(b) to show that the person did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the goods or technology were for use in Iran.

##### Transfer of  

40

40.1

A person must not—

40.1.a

transfer  technology of strategic concern  to a place in Iran;

40.1.b

transfer  technology of strategic concern  to a person connected with Iran.

40.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

40.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but—

40.3.a

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(a) to show that the person did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the transfer was to a place in Iran;

40.3.b

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(b) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the person was connected with Iran.

##### Technical assistance relating to  

41

41.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide technical assistance relating
to  goods of strategic concern  or  technology of strategic concern —

41.1.a

to a person connected with Iran, or

41.1.b

for use in Iran.

41.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

41.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but—

41.3.a

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(a) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the person was connected with Iran;

41.3.b

it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1)(b) to show that the person did not know and had no reasonable
cause to suspect that the goods or technology were for use in Iran.

##### Financial services and funds relating to 

42

42.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide, to a person connected with
Iran, financial services in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
whose object or effect is—

42.1.a

the export of  goods of strategic concern ,

42.1.b

the direct or indirect supply or delivery of goods of strategic concern ,

42.1.c

directly or indirectly making  goods of strategic concern  or  technology of
strategic concern  available to a person,

42.1.d

the transfer of  technology of strategic concern , or

42.1.e

the direct or indirect provision of technical assistance relating to  goods of
strategic concern  or  technology of strategic concern .

42.2

A person must not directly or indirectly make funds available to a person
connected with Iran in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
mentioned in paragraph (1).

42.3

A person must not directly or indirectly provide financial services or funds
in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement whose object or effect
is—

42.3.a

the export of  goods of strategic concern  to, or for use in, Iran,

42.3.b

the direct or indirect supply or delivery of  goods of strategic concern  to a
place in Iran,

42.3.c

directly or indirectly making  goods of strategic concern  or  technology of
strategic concern  available—

42.3.c.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

42.3.c.ii

for use in Iran,

42.3.d

the transfer of  technology of strategic concern —

42.3.d.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

42.3.d.ii

to a place in Iran, or

42.3.e

the direct or indirect provision of technical assistance relating to  goods of
strategic concern  or  technology of strategic concern —

42.3.e.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

42.3.e.ii

for use in Iran.

42.4

Paragraphs (1) to (3) are subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

42.5

A person who contravenes a prohibition in any of paragraphs (1) to (3) commits
an offence, but—

42.5.a

it is a defence for a person charged with an offence of contravening paragraph
(1) or (2) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable cause to
suspect that the person was connected with Iran;

42.5.b

it is a defence for a person charged with an offence of contravening a
prohibition in paragraph (3) to show that the person did not know and had no
reasonable cause to suspect that the financial services or funds (as the case
may be) were provided in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
mentioned in that paragraph.

##### Brokering services: non-UK activity relating to  

43

43.1

A person must not directly or indirectly provide brokering services in
relation to an arrangement (“arrangement A”) whose object or effect is—

43.1.a

the direct or indirect supply or delivery of  goods of strategic concern  from
a third country to a place in Iran,

43.1.b

directly or indirectly making  goods of strategic concern  available in a
third country for direct or indirect supply or delivery—

43.1.b.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

43.1.b.ii

to a place in Iran,

43.1.c

directly or indirectly making  technology of strategic concern  available in a
third country for transfer—

43.1.c.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

43.1.c.ii

to a place in Iran,

43.1.d

the transfer of  technology of strategic concern  from a place in a third
country—

43.1.d.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

43.1.d.ii

to a place in Iran,

43.1.e

the direct or indirect provision, in a non-UK country, of technical assistance
relating to  goods of strategic concern  or  technology of strategic concern —

43.1.e.i

to a person connected with Iran, or

43.1.e.ii

for use in Iran,

43.1.f

the direct or indirect provision, in a non-UK country, of financial services—

43.1.f.i

to a person connected with Iran, where arrangement A, or any other arrangement
in connection with which arrangement A is entered into, is an arrangement
mentioned in regulation 42(1), or

43.1.f.ii

where arrangement A, or any other arrangement in connection with which
arrangement A is entered into, is an arrangement mentioned in regulation
42(3),

43.1.g

directly or indirectly making funds available, in a non-UK country, to a
person connected with Iran, where arrangement A, or any other arrangement in
connection with which arrangement A is entered into, is an arrangement
mentioned in regulation 42(1), or

43.1.h

the direct or indirect provision of funds from a non-UK country, where
arrangement A, or any other arrangement in connection with which arrangement A
is entered into, is an arrangement mentioned in regulation 42(3).

43.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences).

43.3

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence to show that the
person did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that the brokering
services were provided in relation to an arrangement mentioned in that
paragraph.

43.4

In this regulation—

“ non-UK country ” means a country that is not the United Kingdom; “ third
country ” means— for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a) and  (b) , a country
that is not the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man or Iran, and for the purposes
of any other provision of paragraph (1), a country that is not the United
Kingdom or Iran.

#### Further provision

##### Circumventing etc. prohibitions

44

44.1

A person must not intentionally participate in activities knowing that the
object or effect of them is, whether directly or indirectly—

44.1.a

to circumvent any of the prohibitions in Chapter 2, 3 or 4 of this Part, or

44.1.b

to enable or facilitate the contravention of any such prohibition.

44.2

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

##### Defences

45

45.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a person relies on a defence under Chapter 2, 3 or
4 of this Part.

45.2

If evidence is adduced which is sufficient to raise an issue with respect to
the defence, the court must assume that the defence is satisfied unless the
prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that it is not.

### Ships

#### Prohibition on port entry

46

46.1

A person must not provide a ship to which this paragraph applies with access
to a port in the United Kingdom, if the person knows, or has reasonable cause
to suspect, that the ship is a ship to which this paragraph applies.

46.2

The master or pilot of a ship to which this paragraph applies must not cause
or permit the ship to enter a port in the United Kingdom if the master or
pilot knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that the ship is a ship to
which this paragraph applies.

46.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) are subject to Part 8 (Exceptions and licences) (see,
in particular, regulation 57 (ships: exceptions from prohibitions on port
entry)).

46.4

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) or (2) commits an
offence.

46.5

Paragraphs (1) and (2) apply to—

46.5.a

a ship owned, controlled, chartered or operated by a designated person, or

46.5.b

a specified ship.

46.6

In paragraph (5), a “ designated person ” means a person who is designated
under regulation 5 for the purposes of the relevant regulations of this Part.

#### Directions prohibiting port entry

47

47.1

A port barring direction may be given to the master or pilot of a specified
ship.

47.2

A port barring direction may be given by—

47.2.a

the Secretary of State, or

47.2.b

a harbour authority.

47.3

The Secretary of State may direct a harbour authority to take such steps as
are reasonably practicable to secure that a ship mentioned in a port barring
direction does not enter a port or ports in the United Kingdom specified in
the direction, or any port in the United Kingdom.

47.4

It is an offence for a person to whom a direction is given under this
regulation to fail to comply with the direction.

47.5

The Secretary of State may notify a person that the existence of a port
barring direction, any part of the content of the direction, or anything done
under the direction, is to be treated as confidential.

47.6

It is an offence for a person to disclose information if the Secretary of
State has notified that person under paragraph (5) that the information is to
be treated as confidential.

47.7

In this regulation, a “ port barring direction ” means a direction prohibiting
a ship from entering a port or ports in the United Kingdom specified in the
direction, or any port in the United Kingdom.

#### Movement of ships

48

48.1

A port entry direction or a movement direction may be given by the Secretary
of State to the master or pilot of—

48.1.a

a ship owned, controlled, chartered or operated by a designated person, or

48.1.b

a specified ship.

48.2

The Secretary of State may direct a harbour authority to take such steps as
are reasonably practicable to secure that a ship mentioned in paragraph (1)—

48.2.a

proceeds to or enters a port specified in the direction,

48.2.b

leaves a port specified in the direction,

48.2.c

proceeds to a place specified in the direction, or

48.2.d

remains where it is.

48.3

It is an offence for a person to whom a direction is given under this
regulation to fail to comply with the direction.

48.4

The Secretary of State may notify a person that the existence of a port entry
direction or a movement direction, any part of the content of the direction,
or anything done under the direction, is to be treated as confidential.

48.5

It is an offence for a person to disclose information if the Secretary of
State has notified that person under paragraph (4) that the information is to
be treated as confidential.

48.6

In this regulation—

      a “ designated person ” means a person who is designated under
regulation 5 for the purposes of the relevant regulations of this Part;
a “ movement direction ” means a direction requiring a ship—         to leave
a port specified in the direction,           to proceed to a place specified
in the direction, or           to remain where it is;         a “ port entry
direction ” means a direction requiring a ship to proceed to or enter a port
specified in the direction.

#### Detention of ships

49

49.1

A detention direction may be given to the master of a ship referred to in
paragraph (3) by—

49.1.a

the Secretary of State, or

49.1.b

a harbour authority.

49.2

A detention direction under paragraph (1)(b) may only be given by a harbour
authority to the master of a specified ship if it has received a direction
from the Secretary of State in accordance with paragraph (3)(b).

49.3

The Secretary of State may direct a harbour authority to give a detention
direction to the master of—

49.3.a

a ship owned, controlled, chartered or operated by a designated person, or

49.3.b

a specified ship.

49.4

A “ detention direction ” means a direction requiring the detention of a ship
at a port or anchorage in the United Kingdom.

49.5

A detention direction given in relation to a ship—

49.5.a

must be in writing,

49.5.b

must be delivered to the master of the ship by the person who detains the
ship,

49.5.c

must state the grounds on which the ship is detained, and

49.5.d

must state that—

49.5.d.i

it is given under this regulation, and

49.5.d.ii

any requirements imposed by the direction must be complied with.

49.6

Paragraph (7) applies if—

49.6.a

the ship is not a British ship, and

49.6.b

there is in the United Kingdom a consular officer for the country to which the
ship belongs.

49.7

A copy of the detention direction must be sent as soon as practicable to the
nearest consular officer for the country to which the ship belongs.

49.8

Section 284(1), (2), (2A), (2B), (3) and (8) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995
(enforcing detention of ship) applies in the case of detention under a
detention direction as it applies in the case of detention authorised or
ordered by that Act, but as if—

49.8.a

any reference in that section to a notice of detention were to the detention
direction, and

49.8.b

the reference in subsection (2A) of that section to a direction given under
subsection (1A)(a)  of that section were to any requirement imposed by the
detention direction.

49.9

In this regulation, “ consular officer ”, in relation to a foreign country,
means the officer recognised by His Majesty as a consular officer of that
foreign country.

49.10

In this regulation a “ designated person ” means a person who is designated
under regulation 5 for the purposes of the relevant regulations of this Part.

#### Registration of ships in the United Kingdom

50

50.1

The Registrar must refuse to register a ship if, on the basis of the
information given to the Registrar by the Secretary of State or accompanying
the application for registration, the ship appears to the Registrar to be
owned, controlled, chartered or operated by a designated person.

50.2

The Secretary of State may direct the Registrar to terminate the registration
of—

50.2.a

a ship that is owned, controlled, chartered or operated by a designated
persons or

50.2.b

a specified ship.

50.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

50.3.a

any reference to registering a ship is to registering the ship in the register
of British ships maintained by the Registrar; and

50.3.b

a “ designated person ” means a person who is designated under regulation 5
for the purposes of the relevant regulations of this Part.

#### Specification of ships

51

51.1

The Secretary of State may specify ships within the meaning of section 7 of
the Act for the purposes of—

51.1.a

regulation 46 (prohibition on port entry),

51.1.b

regulation 47 (directions prohibiting port entry),

51.1.c

regulation 48 (movement of ships),

51.1.d

regulation 49 (detention of ships), and

51.1.e

regulation 50 (registration of ships in the United Kingdom).

51.2

The Secretary of State must specify a ship by its International Maritime
Organization number or, where it is not reasonably practicable to identify it
by that number, by any other means that the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

51.3

The Secretary of State may not specify a ship unless the Secretary of State
has reasonable grounds to suspect that the ship is, has been, or is likely to
be, involved in a relevant activity.

51.4

For the purposes of this regulation a ship is “involved in a relevant
activity” if the ship is used for any activity whose object or effect is to
contravene or circumvent, or to enable or facilitate the contravention or
circumvention of, any provision of these Regulations.

#### Notification and publicity where specification power used

52

52.1

Paragraph (2) applies where the Secretary of State—

52.1.a

has specified a ship under regulation 51(1)(specification of ships), or

52.1.b

has by virtue of section 26 of the Act revoked a specification made under that
regulation.

52.2

The Secretary of State—

52.2.a

must without delay take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform
such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate of the
specification or revocation, and

52.2.b

except where one or more of the restricted publicity conditions is met, must
take steps to publicise the specification or revocation generally.

52.3

The “restricted publicity conditions” are that the Secretary of State
considers that disclosure of the specification or revocation should be
restricted—

52.3.a

in the interests of national security or international relations,

52.3.b

for reasons connected with the prevention or detection of serious crime in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

52.3.c

in the interests of justice.

52.4

Paragraph (5) applies if—

52.4.a

when a specification is made one or more of the restricted publicity
conditions is met, but

52.4.b

at any time when the specification has effect, it becomes the case that none
of the restricted publicity conditions is met.

52.5

The Secretary of State must take steps to publicise the specification
generally.

#### Directions under this Part: general

53

53.1

Paragraphs (2) to (4) apply in relation to a direction given under this Part.

53.2

A person to whom a direction is given has a duty to comply with it.

53.3

A direction may be of indefinite duration or a defined duration.

53.4

A person who gives a direction may vary, revoke or suspend it at any time.

53.5

A direction under regulation 48(2) (movement of ships) may be given to any
harbour authority or to harbour authorities generally.

#### Interpretation of Part 7

54

54.1

For the purposes of this Part, a ship is—

54.1.a

“owned” by a person if—

54.1.a.i

the legal title to the ship, or to any share in the ship, is vested in that
person, or in a person who is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
(within the meaning of regulation 9) by that person, or

54.1.a.ii

the person, or a person who is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
(within the meaning of regulation 9) by that person, has a beneficial interest
in the ship or in any share in the ship;

54.1.b

“chartered” by a person if it is chartered on bareboat charter terms within
the meaning given by section 17(11) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995; and

54.1.c

“controlled” by a person who is able to take decisions about its operation,
including (but not limited to) decisions about the route the ship may take and
the appointment of master or crew.

54.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), a ship is not “controlled” by its master
or crew, unless that master or crew are designated persons under the relevant
regulations of this Part.

54.3

For the purposes of this Part, a ship is not “operated” by its master or crew
unless that master or crew are designated persons under the relevant
regulations of this Part.

54.4

Any reference in this Part to a legal title or other interest includes one
held jointly with any other person or persons.

54.5

For the purposes of this Part—

      “ beneficial interest ” means any beneficial interest, however, arising
(whether held by trustee or nominee or arising under a contract or otherwise),
other than an interest held by any person as mortgagee;           “ specified
ship ” means a ship specified by the Secretary of State under regulation 51
(specification of ships);           “ the relevant regulations of this Part ”
means regulations 46, 48, 49, and 50.

54.6

Any expression used in this Part and in section 7 of the Act (shipping
sanctions) has the same meaning in this Part as it has in that section.

### Exceptions and licences

#### Finance: exceptions from prohibitions

55

55.1

The prohibition in regulation 15 (asset-freeze in relation to designated
persons) is not contravened by an independent person (“ P ”) transferring to
another person a legal or equitable interest in funds or economic resources
where, immediately before the transfer, the interest—

55.1.a

is held by P, and

55.1.b

is not held jointly with the designated person.

55.2

In paragraph (1) “ independent person ” means a person who—

55.2.a

is not the designated person, and

55.2.b

is not owned or controlled directly or indirectly (within the meaning of
regulation 9) by the designated person.

55.3

The prohibitions in regulations 15 to 17 (asset-freeze in relation to, and
making funds available to, or for the benefit of, designated persons) are not
contravened by a relevant institution crediting a frozen account with interest
or other earnings due on the account.

55.4

The prohibitions in regulations 16 and 17 (making funds available to, or for
the benefit of, designated persons) are not contravened by a relevant
institution crediting a frozen account where it receives funds transferred to
that institution for crediting to that account.

55.5

The prohibitions in regulations 16 and 17 are not contravened by the transfer
of funds to a relevant institution for crediting to an account held or
controlled (directly or indirectly) by a designated person, where those funds
are transferred in discharge (or partial discharge) of an obligation which
arose before the date on which the person became a designated person.

55.6

The prohibitions in regulations 15 to 17 are not contravened in relation to a
designated person (“ P ”) by a transfer of funds from account A to account B,
where—

55.6.a

account A is with a relevant institution which carries on an excluded activity
within the meaning of section 142D of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 ,

55.6.b

account B is with a ring-fenced body within the meaning of section 142A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , and

55.6.c

accounts A and B are held or controlled (directly or indirectly) by P.

55.7

In this regulation—

“ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in Part 3 (Finance); “
frozen account ” means an account with a relevant institution which is held or
controlled (directly or indirectly) by a designated person; “ relevant
institution ” means a person that has permission under Part 4A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (permission to carry on regulated
activity).

55.8

The definition of “relevant institution” in paragraph (7) is to be read with
section 22 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , any relevant order
under that section  and Schedule 2 to that Act .

#### Trade: exception for emergencies in certain cases

56

56.1

The prohibitions specified in paragraph (2) are not contravened by any act
done by a person (“ P ”), where P provides justification to the Secretary of
State within the relevant period that the act is an act dealing with an
emergency.

56.2

Paragraph (1) applies to the prohibitions in regulations 28 to 34
(prohibitions relating to restricted goods etc.) and regulations 37 to 43
(prohibitions relating to   goods of strategic concern   etc.).

56.3

In this regulation—

“ an act dealing with an emergency ” means an act assisting with the urgent
prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have a serious and significant
impact on human health or safety, infrastructure or the environment; “
relevant period ”, in relation to an act, means the period of 5 working days
beginning with the day on which the act is done.

#### Trade: exceptions in relation to personal effects etc.

56A

56A.1

The prohibitions in regulations 37(1) (export of goods of strategic concern),
38(1) (supply and delivery of goods of strategic concern), 39(1) (making goods
of strategic concern and technology of strategic concern available), 40(1)
(transfer of technology of strategic concern), 41(1) (technical assistance
relating to goods of strategic concern and technology of strategic concern),
42(1) to (3) (financial services and funds relating to goods of strategic
concern and technology of strategic concern), and 43(1) (brokering services:
non-UK activity relating to goods of strategic concern and technology of
strategic concern) are not contravened by a relevant activity in relation to
any goods of strategic concern or technology of strategic concern which are—

56A.1.a

the personal effects of a person travelling to Iran,

56A.1.b

of a non-commercial nature for the personal use of a person travelling to Iran
and contained in that person’s luggage, or

56A.1.c

necessary for the official purposes of a diplomatic mission or consular post
in Iran, or of an international organisation enjoying immunities in accordance
with international law.

56A.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

“ consular post ” has the same meaning as in the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations done at Vienna on 24 April 1963 , and any reference to the functions
of a consular post is to be read in accordance with that Convention; “
diplomatic mission ”, and any reference to the functions of a diplomatic
mission, is to be read in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations done at Vienna on 18 April 1961 ; “ goods of strategic concern ” has
the meaning given in regulation 36 (interpretation); “ relevant activity ”
means any activity which would, in the absence of this regulation, contravene
the prohibitions specified in paragraph (1); “ technology of strategic concern
” has the meaning given in regulation 36 (interpretation).

#### Ships: exceptions from prohibition on port entry

57

57.1

The prohibition in regulation 46(1) (prohibition on port entry) is not
contravened by providing a ship with access to a port if—

57.1.a

a port entry direction has been given in relation to the ship under regulation
48 (movement of ships), or

57.1.b

the access is needed by the ship in a case of emergency.

57.2

The prohibition in regulation 46(2) is not contravened by the entry into port
of a ship if—

57.2.a

a port entry direction has been given in relation to the ship under regulation
47, or

57.2.b

the entry is needed by the ship in a case of emergency.

#### Exception for authorised conduct in a relevant country

58

58.1

Where a person’s conduct in a relevant country would, in the absence of this
regulation, contravene a prohibition in any of regulations 15 to 19 (asset-
freeze etc.) or Chapter 2, 3 or 4 of Part 6 (Trade) (“the relevant
prohibition”), the relevant prohibition is not contravened if the conduct is
authorised by a licence or other authorisation which is issued—

58.1.a

under the law of the relevant country, and

58.1.b

for the purpose of disapplying a prohibition in that jurisdiction which
corresponds to the relevant prohibition.

58.2

In this regulation—

“ relevant country ” means— any of the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, or
any British overseas territory.

#### Exception for acts done for purposes of national security or prevention of serious crime

59

59.1

Where an act would, in the absence of this paragraph, be prohibited by the
prohibition in regulation 11(2) or 13(2) (confidentiality) or any prohibition
in Part 3 (Finance) or 6 (Trade), or under or by virtue of Part 7 (Ships),
that prohibition does not apply to the act if the act is one which a
responsible officer has determined would be in the interests of—

59.1.a

national security, or

59.1.b

the prevention or detection of serious crime in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere.

59.2

Where, in the absence of this paragraph, a thing would be required to be done
under or by virtue of a provision of Part 9 (Information and records) or Part
11 (Maritime enforcement), that requirement does not apply if a responsible
officer has determined that not doing the thing in question would be in the
interests of—

59.2.a

national security, or

59.2.b

the prevention or detection of serious crime in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere.

59.3

In this regulation “ responsible officer ” means a person in the service of
the Crown or holding office under the Crown, acting in the course of that
person’s duty.

#### Treasury licences

60

60.1

The prohibitions in regulations 15 to 19 (asset-freeze etc.) do not apply to
anything done under the authority of a licence issued by the Treasury under
this paragraph.

60.2

The Treasury may issue a licence which authorises acts by a particular person
only where the Treasury consider that it is appropriate to issue the licence
for a purpose set out in Schedule 5.

#### Director disqualification licences

61

The Secretary of State may issue a licence in relation to any person who is
designated under regulation 5 for the purposes of regulation 21 (director
disqualification sanctions) providing that the prohibitions in—

61.a

section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986, and

61.b

Article 15A of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order
2002,

do not apply to anything done under the authority of that licence.

#### Trade licences

62

The prohibitions in Chapters 2, 3 and 4 of Part 6 (Trade) do not apply to
anything done under the authority of a licence issued by the Secretary of
State under this regulation.

#### Licences: general provisions

63

63.1

This regulation applies in relation to Treasury licences, director
disqualification licences, and trade licences.

63.2

A licence must specify the acts authorised by it.

63.3

A licence may be general or may authorise acts by a particular person or
persons of a particular description.

63.4

A licence may—

63.4.a

contain conditions;

63.4.b

be of indefinite duration or a defined duration.

63.5

A person who issues a licence may vary, revoke or suspend it at any time.

63.6

A person who issues, varies, revokes or suspends a licence which authorises
acts by a particular person must give written notice to that person of the
issue, variation, revocation or suspension of the licence.

63.7

A person who issues, varies, revokes or suspends a general licence or a
licence which authorises acts by persons of a particular description must take
such steps as that person considers appropriate to publicise the issue,
variation, revocation or suspension of the licence.

#### Finance: licensing offences

64

64.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P knowingly or recklessly—

64.1.a

provides information that is false in a material respect, or

64.1.b

provides or produces a document that is not what it purports to be,

for the purpose of obtaining a Treasury licence (whether for P or anyone
else).

64.2

A person who purports to act under the authority of a Treasury licence but who
fails to comply with any condition of the licence commits an offence.

#### Director disqualification: licensing offences

65

65.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P knowingly or recklessly—

65.1.a

provides information that is false in a material respect, or

65.1.b

provides or produces a document that is not what it purports to be,

for the purpose of obtaining a director disqualification licence (whether for
P or anyone else).

65.2

A person who purports to act under the authority of a director
disqualification licence but who fails to comply with any condition of the
licence commits an offence.

65.3

A licence in respect of which an offence under paragraph (1) has been
committed is to be treated as void from the time at which it was issued.

#### Trade: licensing offences

66

66.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P knowingly or recklessly—

66.1.a

provides information that is false in a material respect, or

66.1.b

provides or produces a document that is not what it purports to be,

for the purpose of obtaining a trade licence (whether for P or anyone else).

66.2

A person who purports to act under the authority of a trade licence but who
fails to comply with any condition of the licence commits an offence.

66.3

A licence in respect of which an offence under paragraph (1) has been
committed is to be treated as void from the time at which it was issued.

#### Section 8B(1) to (3) of Immigration Act 1971: directions

67

67.1

The Secretary of State may direct that, in relation to any person within
regulation 22 whose name is specified, or who is of a specified description,
section 8B(1) and (2) of the Immigration Act 1971, or section 8B(3) of that
Act, have effect subject to specified exceptions.

67.2

A direction under this regulation may contain conditions.

67.3

A direction under this regulation must be of a defined duration (and that
duration may be expressed in any way, including, for example, being expressed
in a way such that the direction ceases to have effect on, or within a
specified period after, the occurrence of a specified event).

67.4

The Secretary of State may vary, revoke or suspend a direction under this
regulation at any time.

67.5

On the issue, variation, revocation or suspension of a direction under this
regulation, the Secretary of State may take such steps as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate to publicise the issue, variation, revocation or
suspension of the direction.

67.6

In this regulation “ specified ” means specified in a direction under this
regulation.

### Information and records

#### Finance: reporting obligations

68

68.1

A relevant firm must inform the Treasury as soon as practicable if—

68.1.a

it knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that a person—

68.1.a.i

is a designated person, or

68.1.a.ii

has committed an offence under any provision of Part 3 (Finance) or regulation
64 (finance: licensing offences), and

68.1.b

the information or other matter on which the knowledge or cause for suspicion
is based came to it in the course of carrying on its business.

68.2

Where a relevant firm informs the Treasury under paragraph (1), it must state—

68.2.a

the information or other matter on which the knowledge or suspicion is based,
and

68.2.b

any information it holds about the person by which the person can be
identified.

68.3

Paragraph (4) applies if—

68.3.a

a relevant firm informs the Treasury under paragraph (1) that it knows, or has
reasonable cause to suspect, that a person is a designated person, and

68.3.b

that person is a customer of the relevant firm.

68.4

The relevant firm must also state the nature and amount or quantity of any
funds or economic resources held by it for the customer at the time when it
first had the knowledge or suspicion.

68.5

A relevant institution must inform the Treasury without delay if that
institution—

68.5.a

credits a frozen account in accordance with regulation 55(4) (finance:
exceptions from prohibitions), or

68.5.b

transfers funds from a frozen account in accordance with regulation 55(6).

68.6

A person who fails to comply with a requirement in paragraph (1), (2) or (4)
commits an offence.

68.7

In this regulation—

      “ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in Part 3
(Finance);           “ frozen account ” has the same meaning as it has in
regulation 55;           “ relevant firm ” is to be read in accordance with
regulation 69;           “ relevant institution ” has the same meaning as it
has in regulation 55.

#### “Relevant firm”

69

69.1

The following are relevant firms for the purposes of regulation 68 (finance:
reporting obligations)—

69.1.a

a person that has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (permission to carry on regulated activity);

69.1.b

an undertaking that by way of business—

69.1.b.i

operates a currency exchange office,

69.1.b.ii

transmits money (or any representation of monetary value) by any means, or

69.1.b.iii

cashes cheques that are made payable to customers;

69.1.c

a firm or sole practitioner that is—

69.1.c.i

a statutory auditor within the meaning of Part 42 of the Companies Act 2006
(statutory auditors) , or

69.1.c.ii

a local auditor within the meaning of section 4(1) of the Local Audit and
Accountability Act 2014 (general requirements for audit) ;

69.1.d

a firm or sole practitioner that provides to other persons, by way of
business—

69.1.d.i

accountancy services,

69.1.d.ii

legal or notarial services,

69.1.d.iii

advice about tax affairs, or

69.1.d.iv

trust or company services within the meaning of paragraph (2);

69.1.e

a firm or sole practitioner that carries out, or whose employees carry out,
estate agency work;

69.1.f

the holder of a casino operating licence within the meaning given by section
65(2)(a) of the Gambling Act 2005 (nature of a licence) ;

69.1.g

a person engaged in the business of making, supplying, selling (including
selling by auction) or exchanging—

69.1.g.i

articles made from gold, silver, platinum or palladium, or

69.1.g.ii

precious stones or pearls;

69.1.h

a cryptoasset exchange provider;

69.1.i

a custodian wallet provider.

69.2

In paragraph (1) “ trust or company services ” means any of the following
services—

69.2.a

forming companies or other legal persons;

69.2.b

acting, or arranging for another person to act—

69.2.b.i

as a director or secretary of a company,

69.2.b.ii

as a partner of a partnership, or

69.2.b.iii

in a similar capacity in relation to other legal persons;

69.2.c

providing a registered office, business address, correspondence or
administrative address or other related services for a company, partnership or
any other legal person or arrangement;

69.2.d

acting, or arranging for another person to act, as—

69.2.d.i

a trustee of an express trust or similar legal arrangement, or

69.2.d.ii

a nominee shareholder for a person.

69.3

In paragraph (1)—

      “ estate agency work ” is to be read in accordance with section 1 of the
Estate Agents Act 1979 , but as if references in that section to disposing of
or acquiring an interest in land included (despite anything in section 2 of
that Act) references to disposing of or acquiring an estate or interest in
land outside the United Kingdom where that estate or interest is capable of
being owned or held as a separate interest;           “ firm ” means any
entity that, whether or not a legal person, is not an individual, and includes
a body corporate and a partnership or other unincorporated body.

69.4

In paragraph (1), a “ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole
practitioner that by way of business provides one or more of the following
services, including where the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or
issuer of any of the cryptoassets involved—

69.4.a

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets,

69.4.b

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another, or

69.4.c

operating a machine which utilises automated processes to exchange
cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets.

69.5

In paragraph (1), a “ custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole
practitioner that by way of business provides services to safeguard, or to
safeguard and administer—

69.5.a

cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or

69.5.b

private cryptographic keys on behalf of its customers in order to hold, store
and transfer cryptoassets.

69.6

For the purposes of this regulation—

69.6.a

“ cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically;

69.6.b

“ money ” means—

69.6.b.i

money in sterling,

69.6.b.ii

money in any other currency, or

69.6.b.iii

money in any other medium of exchange,

but does not include a cryptoasset; and

69.6.c

in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) of paragraph (4), “ cryptoasset ” includes a
right to, or interest in, the cryptoasset.

69.7

Paragraph (1)(a) and (b) is to be read with section 22 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000, any relevant order under that section and
Schedule 2 to that Act.

69.8

For the purposes of regulation 68(1), information or another matter comes to a
relevant firm “in the course of carrying on its business” if the information
or other matter comes to the firm—

69.8.a

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(a), in the course of
carrying on an activity in respect of which the permission mentioned in that
provision is required;

69.8.b

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(c)(i), in the course of
carrying out statutory audit work within the meaning of section 1210 of the
Companies Act 2006 (meaning of statutory auditor) ;

69.8.c

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(c)(ii), in the course of
carrying out an audit required by the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014;

69.8.d

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(f), in the course of
carrying on an activity in respect of which the licence mentioned in that
provision is required;

69.8.e

in the case of a relevant firm within any other provision of paragraph (1), in
the course of carrying on an activity mentioned in that provision.

#### Finance: powers to request information

70

70.1

The Treasury may request a designated person to provide information about—

70.1.a

funds or economic resources owned, held or controlled by, or on behalf of, the
designated person, or

70.1.b

any disposal of such funds or economic resources.

70.2

The Treasury may request a designated person to provide such information as
the Treasury may reasonably require about expenditure—

70.2.a

by the designated person, or

70.2.b

for the benefit of the designated person.

70.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), expenditure for the benefit of a designated
person includes expenditure on the discharge (or partial discharge) of a
financial obligation for which the designated person is wholly or partly
responsible.

70.4

The power in paragraph (1) or (2) is exercisable only where the Treasury
believe that it is necessary for the purpose of monitoring compliance with or
detecting evasion of any provision of Part 3 (Finance).

70.5

The Treasury may request a person acting under a Treasury licence to provide
information about—

70.5.a

funds or economic resources dealt with under the licence, or

70.5.b

funds or economic resources made available under the licence.

70.6

The Treasury may request a person to provide information within paragraph (7)
if the Treasury believe that the person may be able to provide the
information.

70.7

Information within this paragraph is such information as the Treasury may
reasonably require for the purpose of—

70.7.a

establishing for the purposes of any provision of Part 3 (Finance)—

70.7.a.i

the nature and amount or quantity of any funds or economic resources owned,
held or controlled by, or on behalf of, a designated person,

70.7.a.ii

the nature and amount or quantity of any funds or economic resources made
available directly or indirectly to, or for the benefit of, a designated
person, or

70.7.a.iii

the nature of any financial transactions entered into by a designated person;

70.7.b

monitoring compliance with or detecting evasion of—

70.7.b.i

any provision of Part 3,

70.7.b.ii

regulation 68 (finance: reporting obligations), or

70.7.b.iii

any condition of a Treasury licence;

70.7.c

detecting or obtaining evidence of the commission of an offence under Part 3
or regulation 64 (finance: licensing offences) or 68.

70.8

The Treasury may specify the way in which, and the period within which,
information is to be provided.

70.9

If no such period is specified, the information which has been requested must
be provided within a reasonable time.

70.10

A request may include a continuing obligation to keep the Treasury informed as
circumstances change, or on such regular basis as the Treasury may specify.

70.11

Information requested under this regulation may relate to any period of time
during which a person is, or was, a designated person.

70.12

Information requested by virtue of paragraph (1)(b), (2) or (7)(a)(iii) may
relate to any period before a person became a designated person (as well as,
or instead of, any subsequent period).

70.13

Expressions used in this regulation have the same meaning as they have in Part
3.

#### Finance: production of documents

71

71.1

A request under regulation 70 (finance: power to request information) may
include a request to produce specified documents or documents of a specified
description.

71.2

Where the Treasury request that documents be produced, the Treasury may—

71.2.a

take copies of or extracts from any document so produced,

71.2.b

request any person producing a document to give an explanation of it, and

71.2.c

where that person is a body corporate, partnership or unincorporated body
other than a partnership, request any person who is—

71.2.c.i

in the case of a partnership, a present or past partner or employee of the
partnership, or

71.2.c.ii

in any other case, a present or past officer or employee of the body
concerned,

to give such an explanation.

71.3

Where the Treasury request a designated person or a person acting under a
Treasury licence to produce documents, that person must—

71.3.a

take reasonable steps to obtain the documents (if they are not already in the
person’s possession or control);

71.3.b

keep the documents under the person’s possession or control (except for the
purpose of providing them to the Treasury or as the Treasury may otherwise
permit).

71.4

In this regulation “ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in
Part 3 (Finance).

#### Finance: information offences

72

72.1

A person commits an offence if that person—

72.1.a

without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails within the time and in the manner
specified (or, if no time has been specified, within a reasonable time) to
comply with any request under regulation 70 (finance: powers to request
information);

72.1.b

knowingly or recklessly gives any information, or produces any document, which
is false in a material particular in response to such a request;

72.1.c

with intent to evade any provision of regulation 70 or 71 (finance: production
of documents), destroys, mutilates, defaces, conceals or removes any document;

72.1.d

otherwise intentionally obstructs the Treasury in the exercise of their powers
under regulation 70 or 71.

72.2

Where a person is convicted of an offence under this regulation, the court may
make an order requiring that person, within such period as may be specified in
the order, to comply with the request.

#### Trade: application of information powers in CEMA

73

73.1

Section 77A of CEMA  applies in relation to a person carrying on a relevant
activity as it applies in relation to a person concerned in the importation or
exportation of goods but as if—

73.1.a

in subsection (1), the reference to a person concerned in the importation or
exportation of goods for which for that purpose an entry is required by or
under CEMA were to a person carrying on a relevant activity;

73.1.b

any other reference to importation or exportation were to a relevant activity;

73.1.c

any other reference to goods were to the goods, technology, services or funds
to which the relevant activity relates.

73.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a “ relevant activity ” means an activity
which would, unless done under the authority of a trade licence, constitute a
contravention of—

73.2.a

any prohibition in Chapter 2, 3 or 4 of Part 6 (Trade) except the prohibition
in regulation 28(1) or regulation 37(1) (export of restricted goods etc.), or

73.2.b

the prohibition in regulation 44 (circumventing etc. prohibitions).

#### General trade licences: records

74

74.1

This regulation applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) who does any act
authorised by a general licence issued under regulation 62 (trade licences) (“
the licence ”).

74.2

P must keep a register or record containing such details as may be necessary
to allow the following information, where appropriate, to be identified in
relation to each act done under the authority of the licence—

74.2.a

a description of the act;

74.2.b

a description of any goods, technology, services or funds to which the act
relates;

74.2.c

the date of the act or the dates between which the act took place;

74.2.d

the quantity of any goods or funds to which the act relates;

74.2.e

P’s name and address;

74.2.f

the name and address of any consignee of goods to which the act relates or any
recipient of technology, services or funds to which the act relates;

74.2.g

in so far as it is known to P, the name and address of the end-user of the
goods, technology, services or funds to which the act relates;

74.2.h

if different from P, the name and address of the supplier of any goods to
which the act relates;

74.2.i

any further information required by the licence.

74.3

The register or record relating to an act must be kept until the end of the
calendar year in which the register or record is created and for a further
period of 4 years from the end of that calendar year.

74.4

P must notify the Secretary of State in writing of P’s name and the address at
which the register or record may be inspected, and must make a further such
notification if those details change.

74.5

A notification under paragraph (4) must be given no later than 30 days after—

74.5.a

P first does any act authorised by the licence, or

74.5.b

there is any change to the details previously notified.

74.6

A person who fails to comply with a requirement in paragraph (2), (3) or (4)
commits an offence.

#### General trade licences: inspection of records

75

75.1

A person authorised by the Secretary of State or the Commissioners (an
“official”) may at any reasonable hour enter premises notified under
regulation 74(4) (general trade licences: records) for the purposes of
monitoring compliance with, or detecting evasion of, regulation 74(2) or (3).

75.2

An official may require any person on the premises to produce any register or
record required to be kept under regulation 74, or any document included in
such a register or record, that is in the person’s possession or control.

75.3

An official may inspect and copy any such register, record or document.

75.4

An official must, if requested to do so, produce documentary evidence that he
or she is authorised to exercise a power conferred by this regulation.

75.5

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person—

75.5.a

intentionally obstructs an official in the performance of any of the
official’s functions under this regulation, or

75.5.b

fails to produce a register, record or document when reasonably required to do
so by an official under this regulation.

#### Disclosure of information

76

76.1

The Secretary of State, the Treasury or the Commissioners may, in accordance
with this regulation, disclose—

76.1.a

any information obtained under or by virtue of Part 8 (Exceptions and
licences), this Part or Part 11 (Maritime enforcement), or

76.1.b

any information held in connection with—

76.1.b.i

anything done under or by virtue of Part 2 (Designation of persons), Part 3
(Finance), Part 4 (Director disqualification sanctions), Part 6 (Trade) or
Part 7 (Ships), or

76.1.b.ii

any exception or licence under Part 8 or anything done in accordance with such
an exception or under the authority of such a licence.

76.2

Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed for, or in
connection with, any of the following purposes—

76.2.a

the exercise of functions under these Regulations;

76.2.b

any purpose stated in regulation 4;

76.2.c

facilitating, monitoring or ensuring compliance with these Regulations;

76.2.d

taking any action with a view to instituting, or otherwise for the purposes
of, any proceedings in the United Kingdom—

76.2.d.i

for an offence under any provision of these Regulations,

76.2.d.ii

for an offence under CEMA in connection with a prohibition mentioned in
regulation 28(1) and 37(1) (export of restricted goods etc.), or

76.2.d.iii

in relation to a monetary penalty under section 146 of the Policing and Crime
Act 2017 (breach of financial sanctions legislation) ;

76.2.e

taking any action with a view to instituting, or otherwise for the purposes
of, any proceedings in any of the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or any
British overseas territory for an offence—

76.2.e.i

under a provision in any such jurisdiction that is similar to a provision of
these Regulations, or

76.2.e.ii

in connection with a prohibition in any such jurisdiction that is similar to a
prohibition referred to in sub-paragraph (d)(ii);

76.2.f

compliance with an international obligation ;

76.2.g

facilitating the exercise by an authority outside the United Kingdom or by an
international organisation of functions which correspond to functions under
these Regulations.

76.3

Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed to the following
persons—

76.3.a

a police officer;

76.3.b

any person holding or acting in any office under or in the service of—

76.3.b.i

the Crown in right of the Government of the United Kingdom,

76.3.b.ii

the Crown in right of the Scottish Government, the Northern Ireland Executive
or the Welsh Government,

76.3.b.iii

the States of Jersey, Guernsey or Alderney or the Chief Pleas of Sark,

76.3.b.iv

the Government of the Isle of Man, or

76.3.b.v

the Government of any British overseas territory;

76.3.c

any law officer of the Crown for Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man;

76.3.d

the Scottish Legal Aid Board;

76.3.e

the Financial Conduct Authority, the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Bank
of England, the Jersey Financial Services Commission, the Guernsey Financial
Services Commission or the Isle of Man Financial Services Authority;

76.3.f

any other regulatory body (whether or not in the United Kingdom);

76.3.g

any organ of the United Nations;

76.3.h

the Council of the European Union, the European Commission or the European
External Action Service;

76.3.i

the Government of any country;

76.3.j

any other person where the Secretary of State, the Treasury or the
Commissioners (as the case may be) considers that it is appropriate to
disclose the information.

76.4

Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed to any person with
the consent of a person who, in their own right, is entitled to the
information.

76.5

In paragraph (4) “ in their own right ” means not merely in the capacity as a
servant or agent of another person.

76.6

In paragraph (1)(b)—

76.6.a

the reference to information includes information obtained at a time when any
provision of these Regulations is not in force, and

76.6.b

the reference to a licence under Part 8 includes a licence or authorisation
which has effect or is treated as if it were a licence which had been issued
under that Part.

#### Finance: disclosure to the Treasury

77

77.1

A relevant public authority may disclose information to the Treasury if the
disclosure is made for the purpose of enabling or assisting the Treasury to
discharge any of its functions in connection with any sanctions regulations
contained in these Regulations.

77.2

In this regulation—

      “ relevant public authority ” means—         any person holding or
acting in any office under or in the service of—         the Crown in right of
the Government of the United Kingdom,           the Crown in right of the
Scottish Government, the Northern Ireland Executive or the Welsh Government,
any local authority,           any police officer,           the Financial
Conduct Authority, the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Bank of England or
any other regulatory body in the United Kingdom, or           any other person
exercising functions of a public nature;                 “ local authority ”
means—         in relation to England—         a county council,           a
district council,           a London Borough council,           the Common
Council of the City of London in its capacity as a local authority,
the Council of the Isles of Scilly, or           an eligible parish council
within the meaning of section 1(2) of the Local Government Act 2000 ,
in relation to Wales, a county council, a county borough council or a
community council,           in relation to Scotland, a council constituted
under section 2 of the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 , or
in relation to Northern Ireland, a district council.

#### Part 9: supplementary

78

78.1

A disclosure of information under regulation 76 (disclosure of information) or
77 (finance: disclosure to the Treasury) does not breach any restriction on
such disclosure imposed by statute or otherwise.

78.2

But nothing in those regulations authorises a disclosure that—

78.2.a

contravenes the data protection legislation, or

78.2.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 .

78.3

Nothing in this Part is to be read as requiring a person who has acted or is
acting as counsel or solicitor for any person to disclose any privileged
information in their possession in that capacity.

78.4

Regulations 76 and 77 do not limit the circumstances in which information may
be disclosed apart from those regulations.

78.5

Nothing in this Part limits any conditions which may be contained in a
Treasury licence or a trade licence.

78.6

In this regulation—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act) ;           “ privileged
information ” means information with respect to which a claim to legal
professional privilege (in Scotland, to confidentiality of communications)
could be maintained in legal proceedings.

### Enforcement

#### Penalties for offences

79

79.1

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 3 (Finance) or
regulation 46(4) (prohibition on port entry), 47(4) (directions prohibiting
port entry), 48(3) (movement of ships), or 64 (finance: licensing offences),
is liable—

79.1.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

79.1.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

79.1.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

79.1.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years
or a fine (or both).

79.2

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 6 (Trade) is
liable—

79.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

79.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

79.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

79.2.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years
or a fine (or both).

79.3

A person who commits an offence under regulation 11(6) or 13(6)
(confidentiality), 65 (director disqualification: licensing offences), 66
(trade: licensing offences), 74(6) (general trade licences: records) or 75(5)
(general trade licences: inspection of records) is liable—

79.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

79.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

79.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

79.3.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

79.4

A person who commits an offence under regulation 47(6) (directions prohibiting
port entry: confidentiality), 48(5) (movement of ships: confidentiality),
68(6) or 72 (information offences in connection with Part 3) is liable—

79.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine (or both);

79.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both);

79.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

#### Liability of officers of bodies corporate etc.

80

80.1

Where an offence under these Regulations, committed by a body corporate—

80.1.a

is committed with the consent or connivance of any director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who
was purporting to act in any such capacity, or

80.1.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of any such person,

that person as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and is
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

80.2

In paragraph (1) “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

80.3

Paragraph (1) also applies in relation to a body that is not a body corporate,
with the substitution for the reference to a director of the body of a
reference—

80.3.a

in the case of a partnership, to a partner;

80.3.b

in the case of an unincorporated body other than a partnership—

80.3.b.i

where the body’s affairs are managed by its members, to a member of the body;

80.3.b.ii

in any other case, to a member of the governing body.

80.4

Section 171(4) of CEMA (which is a provision similar to this regulation) does
not apply to any offence under these Regulations to which that provision
would, in the absence of this paragraph, apply.

#### Jurisdiction to try offences

81

81.1

Where an offence under regulation 11(6) or 13(6) (confidentiality), Part 3
(Finance), regulation 64 (finance: licensing offences) or regulation 68(6) or
72 (information offences in connection with Part 3) is committed in the United
Kingdom—

81.1.a

proceedings for the offence may be taken at any place in the United Kingdom,
and

81.1.b

the offence may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been
committed at any such place.

81.2

Where an offence under these Regulations is committed outside the United
Kingdom—

81.2.a

proceedings for the offence may be taken at any place in the United Kingdom,
and

81.2.b

the offence may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been
committed at any such place.

81.3

In the application of paragraph (2) to Scotland, any such proceedings against
a person may be taken—

81.3.a

in any sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or is in
custody, or

81.3.b

in such sheriff court district as the Lord Advocate may determine.

81.4

In paragraph (3) “ sheriff court district ” is to be read in accordance with
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (see section 307(1) of that Act) .

#### Procedure for offences by unincorporated bodies

82

82.1

Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply if it is alleged that an offence under these
Regulations has been committed by an unincorporated body (as opposed to by a
member of the body).

82.2

Proceedings in England and Wales or Northern Ireland for such an offence must
be brought against the body in its own name.

82.3

For the purposes of proceedings, for such an offence brought against an
unincorporated body—

82.3.a

rules of court relating to the service of documents have effect as if the body
were a body corporate;

82.3.b

the following provisions apply as they apply in relation to a body corporate—

82.3.b.i

section 33 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925  and Schedule 3 to the
Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 ;

82.3.b.ii

section 18 of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945  and Article
166 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order
1981 .

82.4

A fine imposed on an unincorporated body on its conviction of an offence under
these Regulations is to be paid out of the funds of the body.

#### Time limit for proceedings for summary offences

83

83.1

Proceedings for an offence under these Regulations which is triable only
summarily may be brought within the period of 12 months beginning with the
date on which evidence sufficient in the opinion of the prosecutor to justify
the proceedings comes to the prosecutor’s knowledge.

83.2

But such proceedings may not be brought by virtue of paragraph (1) more than 3
years after the commission of the offence.

83.3

A certificate signed by the prosecutor as to the date on which the evidence in
question came to the prosecutor’s knowledge is conclusive evidence of the date
on which it did so; and a certificate to that effect and purporting to be so
signed is to be treated as being so signed unless the contrary is proved.

83.4

In relation to proceedings in Scotland—

83.4.a

section 136(3) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (date of
commencement of summary proceedings) applies for the purposes of this
regulation as it applies for the purposes of that section, and

83.4.b

references in this regulation to the prosecutor are to be treated as
references to the Lord Advocate.

#### Trade enforcement: application of CEMA

84

84.1

Where the Commissioners investigate or propose to investigate any matter with
a view to determining—

84.1.a

whether there are grounds for believing that a relevant offence has been
committed, or

84.1.b

whether a person should be prosecuted for such an offence,

the matter is to be treated as an assigned matter.

84.2

In paragraph (1) “ assigned matter ” has the meaning given by section 1(1) of
CEMA .

84.3

In this regulation a “ relevant offence ” means an offence under—

84.3.a

Part 6 (Trade),

84.3.b

regulation 66 (trade: licensing offences),

84.3.c

regulation 74(6) (general trade licences: records), or

84.3.d

regulation 75(5) (general trade licences: inspection of records).

84.4

The Commissioners may not investigate the suspected commission of a relevant
offence listed in paragraphs (5) and (6), unless the suspected offence has
been the subject of—

84.4.a

a referral to the Commissioners by the Secretary of State, or

84.4.b

a decision by the Commissioners to treat the suspected offence as if it had
been referred to them under sub-paragraph (a).

84.5

Paragraph (4) applies to the suspected commission of an offence under any of
the following provisions—

84.5.a

regulation 35(3) (provision of interception and monitoring services);

84.5.b

regulation 44(2) (circumventing etc. prohibitions) insofar as it relates to
the prohibition at regulation 35(1).

84.6

Paragraph (4) also applies to the suspected commission of a relevant offence
under any of regulations 66(1), 66(2), 74(6) and 75(5) insofar as—

84.6.a

the suspected offence relates to a licence issued under regulation 62, and

84.6.b

the activity authorised by that licence would, if no licence had been issued,
amount to an offence specified in paragraph (5).

84.7

Section 138 of CEMA  (arrest of persons) applies to a person who has
committed, or whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect of having
committed, a relevant offence as it applies to a person who has committed, or
whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect of having committed, an offence
for which the person is liable to be arrested under the customs and excise
Acts , but as if—

84.7.a

any reference to an offence under, or for which a person is liable to be
arrested under, the customs and excise Acts were to a relevant offence;

84.7.b

in subsection (2), the reference to any person so liable were to a person who
has committed, or whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect of having
committed, a relevant offence.

84.8

The provisions of CEMA mentioned in paragraph (9) apply in relation to
proceedings for a relevant offence as they apply in relation to proceedings
for an offence under the customs and excise Acts, but as if—

84.8.a

any reference to the customs and excise Acts were to any of the provisions
mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) to (d);

84.8.b

in section 145(6), the reference to an offence for which a person is liable to
be arrested under the customs and excise Acts were to a relevant offence;

84.8.c

in section 151, the reference to any penalty imposed under the customs and
excise Acts were to any penalty imposed under these Regulations in relation to
a relevant offence;

84.8.d

in section 154(2)—

84.8.d.i

the reference to proceedings relating to customs or excise were to proceedings
under any of the provisions mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) to (d), and

84.8.d.ii

the reference to the place from which any goods have been brought included a
reference to the place to which goods have been exported, supplied or
delivered or the place to or from which technology has been transferred.

84.9

The provisions of CEMA are sections 145, 146, 147, 148(1), 150, 151, 152, 154
and 155  (legal proceedings).

#### Trade offences in CEMA: modification of penalty

85

85.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a person is guilty of an offence under section
68(2) of CEMA in connection with a prohibition mentioned in regulation 28(1)
or 37(1) (export of restricted goods etc.).

85.2

Where this paragraph applies, the reference to 7 years in section 68(3)(b) of
CEMA  is to be read as a reference to 10 years.

85.3

Paragraph (4) applies where a person is guilty of an offence under section
170(2) of CEMA in connection with a prohibition mentioned in regulation 28(1)
or 37(1).

85.4

Where this paragraph applies, the reference to 7 years in section 170(3)(b) of
CEMA  is to be read as a reference to 10 years.

#### Application of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005

86

Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005
(investigatory powers)  applies to any offence under Part 3 (Finance) or
regulation 64 (finance: licensing offences).

#### Monetary penalties

87

Each provision in Part 6 (Trade) which contains a prohibition imposed for a
purpose mentioned in section 3(1) or (2) of the Act is to be regarded as not
being financial sanctions legislation for the purposes of Part 8 of the
Policing and Crime Act 2017 .

### Maritime enforcement

#### Exercise of maritime enforcement powers

88

88.1

A maritime enforcement officer may, for a purpose mentioned in paragraph (2)
or (3), exercise any of the maritime enforcement powers in relation to—

88.1.a

a British ship in foreign waters or international waters,

88.1.b

a ship without nationality in international waters, or

88.1.c

a foreign ship in international waters,

and a ship within sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) is referred to in this Part as
“ a relevant ship ”.

88.2

The maritime enforcement powers may be exercised for the purpose of enforcing
any of the following—

88.2.a

a prohibition in any of regulations 28 to 31 (trade prohibitions relating to
restricted goods and restricted technology);

88.2.b

a prohibition in any of regulations 37 to 40 (trade prohibitions relating to
goods of strategic concern and technology of strategic concern );

88.2.c

a prohibition imposed by a condition of a trade licence in relation to a
prohibition mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) or (b).

88.3

The maritime enforcement powers may also be exercised in relation to a
relevant ship for the purpose of—

88.3.a

investigating the suspected carriage of relevant goods on the ship, or

88.3.b

preventing the continued carriage on the ship of goods suspected to be
relevant goods.

88.4

In this Part, “the maritime enforcement powers” are the powers conferred by
regulations 90 (power to stop, search, board etc.) and 91 (seizure power).

88.5

This regulation is subject to regulation 92 (restrictions on exercise of
maritime enforcement powers).

#### Maritime enforcement officers

89

89.1

The following persons are “ maritime enforcement officers ” for the purposes
of this Part—

89.1.a

a commissioned officer of any of His Majesty’s ships;

89.1.b

a member of the Ministry of Defence Police (within the meaning of section 1 of
the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 );

89.1.c

a constable—

89.1.c.i

who is a member of a police force in England and Wales,

89.1.c.ii

within the meaning of section 99 of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act
2012 , or

89.1.c.iii

who is a member of the Police Service of Northern Ireland or the Police
Service of Northern Ireland Reserve;

89.1.d

a special constable—

89.1.d.i

appointed under section 27 of the Police Act 1996 ,

89.1.d.ii

appointed under section 9 of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012,
or

89.1.d.iii

in Northern Ireland, appointed by virtue of provision incorporating section 79
of the Harbours, Docks, and Piers Clauses Act 1847 ;

89.1.e

a constable who is a member of the British Transport Police Force;

89.1.f

a port constable, within the meaning of section 7 of the Marine Navigation Act
2013 , or a person appointed to act as a constable under provision made by
virtue of section 16 of the Harbours Act 1964 ;

89.1.g

a designated customs official within the meaning of Part 1 of the Borders,
Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 (see section 14(6) of that Act) ;

89.1.h

a designated NCA officer who is authorised by the Director General of the
National Crime Agency (whether generally or specifically) to exercise the
powers of a maritime enforcement officer under this Part.

89.2

In this regulation, “ a designated NCA officer ” means a National Crime Agency
officer who is either or both of the following—

89.2.a

an officer designated under section 10 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013  as
having the powers and privileges of a constable;

89.2.b

an officer designated under that section as having the powers of a general
customs official.

#### Power to stop, board, search etc.

90

90.1

This regulation applies if a maritime enforcement officer has reasonable
grounds to suspect that a relevant ship is carrying prohibited goods or
relevant goods.

90.2

The officer may—

90.2.a

stop the ship;

90.2.b

board the ship;

90.2.c

for the purpose of exercising a power conferred by paragraph (3) or regulation
91 (seizure power), require the ship to be taken to, and remain in, a port or
anchorage in the United Kingdom or any other country willing to receive it.

90.3

Where the officer boards a ship by virtue of this regulation, the officer may—

90.3.a

stop any person found on the ship and search that person for—

90.3.a.i

prohibited goods or relevant goods, or

90.3.a.ii

any thing that might be used to cause physical injury or damage to property or
to endanger the safety of any ship;

90.3.b

search the ship, or any thing found on the ship (including cargo) for
prohibited goods or relevant goods;

90.4

The officer may—

90.4.a

require a person found on a ship boarded by virtue of this regulation to
provide information or produce documents;

90.4.b

inspect and copy such information or documents.

90.5

The officer may exercise a power conferred by paragraph (3)(a)(i) or (b) only
to the extent reasonably required for the purpose of discovering prohibited
goods or relevant goods.

90.6

The officer may exercise the power conferred by paragraph (3)(a)(ii) in
relation to a person only where the officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that the person might use a thing to cause physical injury or damage to
property or to endanger the safety of any ship.

90.7

The officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the exercise of any
power conferred by this regulation.

#### Seizure power

91

91.1

This regulation applies if a maritime enforcement officer is lawfully on a
relevant ship (whether in exercise of the powers conferred by regulation 90
(power to stop, board, search etc.) or otherwise).

91.2

The officer may seize any of the following which are found on the ship, in any
thing found on the ship, or on any person found on the ship—

91.2.a

goods which the officer has reasonable grounds to suspect are prohibited goods
or relevant goods, or

91.2.b

things within regulation 90(3)(a)(ii).

91.3

The officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the exercise of any
power conferred by this regulation.

#### Restrictions on exercise of maritime enforcement powers

92

92.1

The authority of the Secretary of State is required before any maritime
enforcement power is exercised in reliance on regulation 88 (exercise of
maritime enforcement powers) in relation to—

92.1.a

a British ship in foreign waters, or

92.1.b

a foreign ship in international waters.

92.2

In relation to a British ship in foreign waters other than the sea and other
waters within the seaward limits of the territorial sea adjacent to any
relevant British possession, the Secretary of State may give authority under
paragraph (1) only if the State in whose waters the power would be exercised
consents to the exercise of the power.

92.3

In relation to a foreign ship in international waters, the Secretary of State
may give authority under paragraph (1) only if—

92.3.a

the home state has requested the assistance of the United Kingdom for a
purpose mentioned in regulation 88(2) or (3),

92.3.b

the home state has authorised the United Kingdom to act for such a purpose, or

92.3.c

the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982  or a UN Security
Council Resolution otherwise permits the exercise of the power in relation to
the ship.

#### Interpretation of Part 11

93

93.1

Subject to paragraph (2), any expression used in this Part and in section 19
or 20 of the Act has the same meaning in this Part as it has in section 19 or
(as the case may be) section 20 of the Act.

93.2

For the purpose of interpreting any reference to “prohibited goods” or
“relevant goods” in this Part, any reference in section 19 or 20 of the Act to
a “relevant prohibition or requirement” is to be read as a reference to any
prohibition specified in regulation 88(2)(a) to (c).

### Supplementary and final provision

#### Notices

94

94.1

This regulation applies in relation to a notice required by regulation 63
(licences: general provisions) to be given to a person.

94.2

The notice may be given to an individual—

94.2.a

by delivering it to the individual,

94.2.b

by sending it to the individual by post addressed to the individual at his or
her usual or last-known place of residence or business, or

94.2.c

by leaving it for the individual at that place.

94.3

The notice may be given to a person other than an individual—

94.3.a

by sending it by post to the proper officer of the body at its principal
office, or

94.3.b

by addressing it to the proper officer of the body and leaving it at that
office.

94.4

The notice may be given to the person by other means, including by electronic
means, with the person’s consent.

94.5

In this regulation, the reference in paragraph (3) to a “principal office”—

94.5.a

in relation to a registered company, is to be read as a reference to the
company’s registered office;

94.5.b

in relation to a body incorporated or constituted under the law of a country
other than the United Kingdom, includes a reference to the body’s principal
office in the United Kingdom (if any).

94.6

In this regulation—

“proper officer”— in relation to a body other than a partnership, means the
secretary or other executive officer charged with the conduct of the body’s
general affairs, and in relation to a partnership, means a partner or a person
who has the control or management of the partnership business; “ registered
company ” means a company registered under the enactments relating to
companies for the time being in force in the United Kingdom.

#### Article 20 of the Export Control Order 2008

94A

Article 20 of the Export Control Order 2008 (embargoed destinations) is not to
be taken to prohibit anything prohibited by Part 6 (Trade).

#### Trade: overlapping offences

95

A person is not to be taken to commit an offence under the Export Control
Order 2008 if the person would, in the absence of this regulation, commit an
offence under both—

95.a

article 34, 35, 37 or 38 of that Order , and

95.b

any provision of Part 6 (Trade) or regulation 66 (trade: licensing offences),
74(6) or 75(5) (offences in connection with record-keeping).

#### Revocation of the Iran (Sanctions) (Human Rights) (EU Exit) Regulations

96

The Iran (Sanctions) (Human Rights) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019  are revoked.

#### Savings

97

97.1

Paragraph (2) applies to a person who, immediately before the relevant date,
was designated by the Secretary of State under regulation 5 (power to
designate persons) of the 2019 Regulations for the purposes of—

97.1.a

regulations 11 to 15 (asset-freeze etc.) of those Regulations, or

97.1.b

regulation 17 (immigration) of those Regulations,

and such a designation is referred to in this regulation as “ an existing
designation ”.

97.2

An existing designation mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) has effect on and after
the relevant date as if it had been made by the Secretary of State under
regulation 5(1)(a) of these Regulations.

97.3

An existing designation mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) has effect on and after
the relevant date as if it had been made by the Secretary of State under
regulation 5(1)(c) of these Regulations.

#### Transitional provision: Treasury licences

98

98.1

Paragraphs (2) to (4) apply to a licence which—

98.1.a

was issued by the Treasury under regulation 35(1) of the 2019 Regulations,

98.1.b

was in effect immediately before the relevant date, and

98.1.c

authorises conduct which would (on and after the relevant date, and in the
absence of paragraphs (2) to (4)) be prohibited under Part 3 (Finance),

and such a licence is referred to in this regulation as “ an existing
financial sanctions licence ”.

98.2

An existing financial sanctions licence which authorises an act which would
otherwise be prohibited has effect on and after the relevant date as if it had
been issued by the Treasury under regulation 60(1) (Treasury licences).

98.3

Any reference in an existing financial sanctions licence to the 2019
Regulations is to be treated on and after the relevant date as a reference to
these Regulations.

98.4

Any reference in an existing financial sanctions licence to a prohibition in
the 2019 Regulations is to be treated on and after the relevant date as a
reference to the corresponding prohibition in Part 3.

98.5

Paragraph (6) applies where—

98.5.a

an application for a licence, or for the variation of a licence, under the
2019 Regulations was made before the relevant date,

98.5.b

the application is for the authorisation of conduct which would (on an after
the relevant date) be prohibited under Part 3, and

98.5.c

a decision to grant or refuse the application has not been made before that
date.

98.6

The application is to be treated on and after the relevant date as an
application for a licence, or for the variation of a licence (as the case may
be), under regulation 60(1) (Treasury licences).

#### Transitional provision: trade licences

99

99.1

Paragraphs (2) to (4) apply to a licence granted by the Secretary of State
which—

99.1.a

was issued by the Secretary of State under regulation 36 of the 2019
Regulations,

99.1.b

was in effect immediately before the relevant date, and

99.1.c

authorises an act which would (on and after the relevant date, and in the
absence of paragraphs (2) to (4)) be prohibited under Part 6 (Trade),

and such a licence is referred to in this regulation as “ an existing trade
sanctions licence ”.

99.2

An existing trade sanctions licence has effect on and after the relevant date
as if it were a licence which had been issued by the Secretary of State under
regulation 62 (trade licences).

99.3

Any reference in an existing trade sanctions licence to the 2019 Regulations
is to be treated on and after the relevant date as a reference to these
Regulations.

99.4

Any reference in an existing trade sanctions licence to a prohibition in the
2019 Regulations is to be treated on and after the relevant date as a
reference to the corresponding prohibition in Part 6 (Trade).

99.5

Paragraph (6) applies where—

99.5.a

an application for a licence, or for the variation of a licence, under the
2019 Regulations was made before the relevant date,

99.5.b

the application is for the authorisation of conduct which would (on and after
the relevant date) be prohibited under Part 6, and

99.5.c

a decision to grant or refuse the application has not been made before that
date.

99.6

The application is to be treated on and after the relevant date as an
application for a licence, or for the variation of a licence (as the case may
be), under regulation 62.

#### Transitional provisions: prior obligations

100

100.1

This regulation applies to a person (“ P ”) who, immediately before the
relevant date, was designated by the Secretary of State under regulation 5
(power to designate persons) of the 2019 Regulations for the purposes of—

100.1.a

regulations 11 to 15 (asset-freeze etc.) of those Regulations, or

100.1.b

regulation 17 (immigration) of those Regulations.

100.2

Subject to paragraph (3), any reference in a provision mentioned in paragraph
(4) to the date on which P became a designated person is a reference to the
date on which P was designated by the Secretary of State under regulation 5 of
the 2019 Regulations.

100.3

Where P was named in Annex I of the EU Iran (Human Rights) Regulation
immediately before IP completion day , any reference in a provision mentioned
in paragraph (4) to the date on which P became a designated person is a
reference to the date on which P was named in that Annex.

100.4

The provisions referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) are—

100.4.a

regulation 55(5) (finance: exceptions from prohibitions), and

100.4.b

paragraphs 6(b)(i) and 10(a) of Schedule 5 (Treasury licences: purposes).

100.5

In this regulation—

“ the EU Iran (Human Rights) Regulation ” means Council  Regulation (EU)
No359/2011  of 12 April 2011 concerning restrictive measures directed against
certain persons, entities and bodies in view of the situation in Iran , as it
has effect in EU law.

#### Interpretation of Part 12

101

In this Part—

“ the 2019 Regulations ” means the Iran (Sanctions) (Human Rights) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019; “ relevant date ” means the date on which these Regulations
come into force.

      Anne-Marie Trevelyan   Minister of State   Foreign, Commonwealth and
Development Office     11th December 2023

## SCHEDULES

Rules for interpretation of regulation 9(2)

Regulation 9(3)

##### Application of Schedule

1

1.1

The rules set out in the following paragraphs of this Schedule apply for the
purpose of interpreting regulation 9(2).

1.2

They also apply for the purpose of interpreting this Schedule.

##### Joint interests

2

If two or more persons each hold a share or right jointly, each of them is
treated as holding that share or right.

##### Joint arrangements

3

3.1

If shares or rights held by a person and shares or rights held by another
person are the subject of a joint arrangement between those persons, each of
them is treated as holding the combined shares or rights of both of them.

3.2

A “joint arrangement” is an arrangement between the holders of shares or
rights that they will exercise all or substantially all the rights conferred
by their respective shares or rights jointly in a way that is pre-determined
by the arrangement.

3.3

“ Arrangement ” has the meaning given by paragraph 12.

##### Calculating shareholdings

4

4.1

In relation to a person who has a share capital, a reference to holding “more
than 50% of the shares” in that person is to holding shares comprised in the
issued share capital of that person of a nominal value exceeding (in
aggregate) 50% of that share capital.

4.2

In relation to a person who does not have a share capital—

4.2.a

a reference to holding shares in that person is to holding a right or rights
to share in the capital or, as the case may be, profits of that person;

4.2.b

a reference to holding “more than 50% of the shares” in that person is to
holding a right or rights to share in more than 50% of the capital or, as the
case may be, profits of that person.

##### Voting rights

5

5.1

A reference to the voting rights in a person is to the rights conferred on
shareholders in respect of their shares (or, in the case of a person not
having a share capital, on members) to vote at general meetings of the person
on all or substantially all matters.

5.2

In relation to a person that does not have general meetings at which matters
are decided by the exercise of voting rights—

5.2.a

a reference to holding voting rights in the person is to be read as a
reference to holding rights in relation to the person that are equivalent to
those of a person entitled to exercise voting rights in a company;

5.2.b

a reference to holding “more than 50% of the voting rights” in the person is
to be read as a reference to holding the right under the constitution of the
person to block changes to the overall policy of the person or to the terms of
its constitution.

6

In applying regulation 9(2) and this Schedule, the voting rights in a person
are to be reduced by any rights held by the person itself.

##### Rights to appoint or remove members of the board

7

A reference to the right to appoint or remove a majority of the board of
directors of a person is to the right to appoint or remove directors holding a
majority of the voting rights at meetings of the board on all or substantially
all matters.

8

A reference to a board of directors, in the case of a person who does not have
such a board, is to be read as a reference to the equivalent management body
of that person.

##### Shares or rights held “indirectly”

9

9.1

A person holds a share “indirectly” if the person has a majority stake in
another person and that other person—

9.1.a

holds the share in question, or

9.1.b

is part of a chain of persons—

9.1.b.i

each of whom (other than the last) has a majority stake in the person
immediately below it in the chain, and

9.1.b.ii

the last of whom holds the share.

9.2

A person holds a right “indirectly” if the person has a majority stake in
another person and that other person—

9.2.a

holds that right, or

9.2.b

is part of a chain of persons—

9.2.b.i

each of whom (other than the last) has a majority stake in the person
immediately below it in the chain, and

9.2.b.ii

the last of whom holds that right.

9.3

For these purposes, a person (“ A ”) has a “majority stake” in another person
(“ B ”) if—

9.3.a

A holds a majority of the voting rights in B,

9.3.b

A is a member of B and has the right to appoint or remove a majority of the
board of directors of B,

9.3.c

A is a member of B and controls alone, pursuant to an agreement with other
shareholders or members, a majority of the voting rights in B, or

9.3.d

A has the right to exercise, or actually exercises, dominant influence or
control over B.

9.4

In the application of this paragraph to the right to appoint or remove a
majority of the board of directors, a person (“ A ”) is to be treated as
having the right to appoint a director if—

9.4.a

any person’s appointment as director follows necessarily from that person’s
appointment as director of A, or

9.4.b

the directorship is held by A itself.

##### Shares held by nominees

10

A share held by a person as nominee for another is to be treated as held by
the other (and not by the nominee).

##### Rights treated as held by person who controls their exercise

11

11.1

Where a person controls a right, the right is to be treated as held by that
person (and not by the person who in fact holds the right, unless that person
also controls it).

11.2

A person “controls” a right if, by virtue of any arrangement between that
person and others, the right is exercisable only—

11.2.a

by that person,

11.2.b

in accordance with that person’s directions or instructions, or

11.2.c

with that person’s consent or concurrence.

12

“ Arrangement ” includes—

12.a

any scheme, agreement or understanding, whether or not it is legally
enforceable, and

12.b

any convention, custom or practice of any kind.

##### Rights exercisable only in certain circumstances etc.

13

13.1

Rights that are exercisable only in certain circumstances are to be taken into
account only—

13.1.a

when the circumstances have arisen, and for so long as they continue to
obtain, or

13.1.b

when the circumstances are within the control of the person having the rights.

13.2

But rights that are exercisable by an administrator or by creditors while a
person is subject to relevant insolvency proceedings are not to be taken into
account while the person is subject to those proceedings.

13.3

“ Relevant insolvency proceedings ” means—

13.3.a

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency Act 1986 ,

13.3.b

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 , or

13.3.c

proceedings under the insolvency law of another country during which a
person’s assets and affairs are subject to the control or supervision of a
third party or creditor.

13.4

Rights that are normally exercisable but are temporarily incapable of exercise
are to continue to be taken into account.

##### Rights attached to shares held by way of security

14

Rights attached to shares held by way of security provided by a person are to
be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as held by that person—

14.a

where apart from the right to exercise them for the purpose of preserving the
value of the security, or of realising it, the rights are exercisable only in
accordance with that person’s instructions, and

14.b

where the shares are held in connection with the granting of loans as part of
normal business activities and apart from the right to exercise them for the
purpose of preserving the value of the security, or of realising it, the
rights are exercisable only in that person’s interests.

Internal repression goods and internal repression technology

Regulation 24

##### Firearms and related goods

1

Firearms, ammunition and related accessories, as follows—

1.a

firearms;

1.b

ammunition specially designed for firearms;

1.c

weapon-sights.

2

Simulators for training persons to use firearms.

3

Bombs and grenades.

##### Vehicles

4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the following types of vehicles—

4.1.a

vehicles equipped with a water cannon, specially designed or modified for the
purpose of riot control;

4.1.b

vehicles specially designed or modified to be electrified to repel boarders;

4.1.c

vehicles specially designed or modified to remove barricades, including
construction equipment with ballistic protection;

4.1.d

vehicles specially designed for the transport or transfer of prisoners or
detainees;

4.1.e

vehicles specially designed to deploy mobile barriers.

4.2

Components for the vehicles specified in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (e) that have
been designed for the purposes of riot control.

4.3

Vehicles that might otherwise fall within sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (e) are not
internal repression goods if they are specially designed for the purposes of
fire-fighting.

4.4

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ vehicle ” includes a trailer.

##### Explosive substances and related goods

5

5.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), equipment and devices specially designed to
initiate explosions by electrical or non-electrical means, including—

5.1.a

firing sets;

5.1.b

detonators;

5.1.c

igniters;

5.1.d

boosters;

5.1.e

detonating cord.

5.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), components that have been specially designed for
any thing mentioned in sub-paragraph (1).

5.3

Sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply to any thing that has been specially
designed for a specific commercial use.

5.4

For the purpose of sub-paragraph (3), a “ specific commercial use ” means the
actuation or operation by explosive means of other equipment or devices the
function of which is not the creation of explosions, including—

5.4.a

car air-bag inflaters;

5.4.b

electric-surge arresters;

5.4.c

fire sprinkler actuators.

6

Linear cutting explosive charges.

7

The following explosives and related substances—

7.a

amatol;

7.b

nitrocellulose (containing more than 12.5 % nitrogen);

7.c

nitroglycol;

7.d

pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN);

7.e

picryl chloride;

7.f

2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT).

##### Other goods

8

8.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the following equipment designed for the
protection of a person—

8.1.a

body armour providing ballistic or stabbing protection or both;

8.1.b

helmets providing ballistic or fragmentation protection, or both, including
anti-riot helmets;

8.1.c

anti-riot shields and ballistic shields.

8.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to—

8.2.a

any thing specially designed to protect persons for the following purposes—

8.2.a.i

participation in competitive sport;

8.2.a.ii

ensuring safety at work;

8.2.b

any thing mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a) or (b) when accompanying a person
for that person’s own protection.

9

Night vision equipment.

10

Thermal imaging equipment.

11

Image intensifier tubes.

12

Razor barbed wire.

13

The following types of knives—

13.a

knives that are designed for use by military personnel (military knives);

13.b

knives that are designed for use as a weapon for inflicting injury (combat
knives);

13.c

bayonets with blade lengths in excess of 10 cm.

##### Production equipment

14

Any equipment which is specially designed or modified for the development or
for one or more of the production phases of any item mentioned in this
Schedule.

##### Software and technology

15

Any software which is specially designed for the simulators mentioned in
paragraph 2.

16

Any technology which is specially designed for the development, production or
use of any item mentioned in this Schedule.

##### Interpretation

17

17.1

In this Schedule, “ firearm ” means any portable barrelled weapon that expels,
is designed to expel or may be converted to expel, a shot, bullet or
projectile by the action of a combustible propellant.

17.2

For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the meaning given
to them in the Dual-Use Regulation—

“development”; “production”; “software”; “technology”; “use”.

Interception and monitoring goods and interception and monitoring technology

Regulation 25

##### Interception and monitoring equipment

1

Any goods which can perform any of the following functions (whether
individually or as part of a system)—

1.a

deep packet inspection;

1.b

network interception, including associated systems management and data
retention functions;

1.c

radio frequency monitoring, including associated processing or examination;

1.d

network and satellite jamming;

1.e

remote infection;

1.f

speaker recognition, including associated processing functions;

1.g

IMSI, MSISDN, IMEI and TMSI interception and monitoring;

1.h

tactical SMS, GSM, GPS, GPRS, UMTS, CDMA, and PSTN interception and
monitoring;

1.i

DHCP, SMTP and GTP information interception and monitoring;

1.j

pattern recognition and pattern profiling;

1.k

remote forensics;

1.l

semantic processing;

1.m

WEP and WPA code breaking;

1.n

interception of VoIP (including proprietary and standard protocols).

2

Any software which can perform any of the functions described in paragraph
1(a) to (n) (whether individually or as part of a system).

##### Other software and other technology

3

Any software or other technology which is specially designed for the
development, production or use of any goods or software described in paragraph
1 or 2.

##### Interpretation

4

For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the meaning given
to them in the Dual-Use Regulation—

“development”; “production”; “software”; “technology”; “use”.

##### Acronyms and abbreviations used in this Schedule

5

The acronyms and abbreviations used in this Schedule have the following
meaning—

ABBREVIATION/ ACRONYM MEANING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IMSI International Mobile
Subscriber Identity This is a unique identification code for each mobile
telephony device, integrated in the SIM card and which allows identification
of that SIM, via GSM and UMTS networks. MSISDN Mobile Subscriber Integrated
Services Digital Network Number This is a number that uniquely identifies a
subscription in a GSM or a UMTS mobile network. It is the telephone number to
the SIM card in a mobile phone and therefore identifies a mobile subscriber as
well as the IMSI. IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity This is a
number, usually unique, to identify GSM, WCDMA and IDEN mobile phones as well
as some satellite phones. It is usually found printed inside the battery
compartment of the phone. TMSI Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity SMS Short
Message System GSM Global System for Mobile Communications GPS Global
Positioning System GPRS General Packet Radio Service UMTS Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System CDMA Code Division Multiple Access PSTN Public
Switch Telephone Networks DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol SMTP Simple
Mail Transfer Protocol GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol WEP Wired Equivalent
Privacy WPA Wi-Fi Protected Access VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol WCDMA
Wideband Code Division Multiple Access IDEN Integrated Digital Enhanced
Network

Goods of strategic concern and technology of strategic concern

Regulation 36

##### General

###### Interpretation

1

1.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, a thing “falls within” a commodity code if
it is, or would be, classified under that commodity code, as set out in the
Goods Classification Table.

1.2

For the purposes of determining whether or not a thing is, or would be,
“classified” in accordance with sub-paragraph (1), the rules of interpretation
contained in the following have effect—

1.2.a

Part Two (Goods Classification Table Rules of Interpretation) of the Tariff of
the United Kingdom;

1.2.b

notes to a section or chapter of the Goods Classification Table.

1.3

For the purposes of this paragraph—

“ commodity code ” includes a code denoting a heading or sub-heading; “ the
Goods Classification Table ” means the table so named in Annex I in Part Three
of the Tariff of the United Kingdom; “ the Tariff of the United Kingdom ”
means the document containing the legal classification and import rate for
products being imported into the United Kingdom, entitled “The Tariff of the
United Kingdom”, as revised or re-issued from time to time , including by any
document published under regulations made under section 8(1) of the Taxation
(Cross-border Trade) Act 2018 replacing the same in whole or in part.

2

For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the meaning given
to them in the Dual-Use Regulation—

“ development ”; “ GNSS ”; “ LIDAR ”; “ production ”; “ technology ”; “ use ”.

##### Items that are specified by commodity code

3

Any thing falling within a commodity code mentioned in column 1 of the
following table.

(1) Commodity code (2) Description 8407 10 Spark-ignition reciprocating or
rotary internal combustion piston engines for aircraft 8408 90 Compression-
ignition internal combustion piston engines 8409 10 Parts suitable for use
solely or principally with internal combustion piston engine for aircraft 8411
11 Turbojets of a thrust not exceeding 25 kn 8411 12 Turbojets of a thrust
exceeding 25 kn 8411 21 Turbopropellers of a power not exceeding 1100 kw 8411
22 Turbopropellers of a power exceeding 1100 kw 8411 91 Parts of turbojets and
turbopropellers 8457 10 Machining centres 8458 11 Numerically controlled
horizontal lathes 8458 91 Other numerically controlled lathes 8459 61
Numerically controlled milling machines 8466 93 Parts and accessories suitable
for use solely or principally with the machines of headings 8456 to 8461, not
elsewhere specified 8471 50 Processing units other than those of subheading
8471 41 or 8471 49, whether or not containing in the same housing one or two
of the following types of unit: storage units, input units, output units 8471
80 Other units of automatic data processing machines, not elsewhere specified
8481 10 Pressure-reducing valves 8482 10 Ball bearings 8482 20 Tapered roller
bearings, including cone and tapered roller assemblies 8482 30 Spherical
roller bearings 8482 50 Other cylindrical roller bearings, including cage and
roller assemblies 8486 10 Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of boules
or wafers 8486 20 Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of semiconductor
devices or of electronic integrated circuits 8486 40 Machines and apparatus
for the manufacture or repair of masks and reticles; for assembling
semiconductor devices or electronic integrated circuits; and for lifting,
handling, loading or unloading of boules, wafers, semiconductor devices,
electronic integrated circuits and flat panel displays 8501 Electric motors
and generators, excluding generating sets 8504 40 Static convertors 8506
Primary cells and primary batteries 8511 20 Ignition magnetos; magneto-
dynamos; magnetic flywheels 8511 80 Electrical ignition or starting equipment
of a kind used for spark-ignition or compression-ignition internal combustion
engines (for example, ignition magnetos, magneto-dynamos, ignition coils,
sparking plugs and glow plugs, starter motors); generators (for example,
dynamos, alternators) and cut-outs of a kind used in conjunction with such
engines: Other equipment 8517 61 Base stations 8517 62 Machines for the
reception, conversion, and transmission or regeneration of voice, images or
other data, including switching and routing apparatus 8517 69 Other apparatus
for the transmission or reception of voice, images or other data, including
apparatus for communication in a wired or wireless network, not elsewhere
specified 8517 71 Parts of telephone sets, including smartphones and other
telephones for cellular networks or for other wireless networks; other
apparatus for the transmission or reception of voice, images or other data,
including apparatus for communication in a wired or wireless network (such as
a local or wide area network), other than transmission or reception apparatus
of heading 8443, 8525, 8527 or 8528 8525 83 Night vision cameras 8525 89
Cameras, visible or thermal, specially designed for unmanned aerial vehicles
8526 10 Radar apparatus 8526 91 Radio navigational aid apparatus 8526 92 Radio
remote control apparatus 8529 10 Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds;
parts suitable for use therewith 8529 90 Other parts suitable for use solely
or principally with the apparatus of headings 8524 to 8528, not elsewhere
specified 8532 21 Tantalum capacitors 8532 22 Aluminium electrolytic
capacitors 8532 24 Ceramic dielectric multilayer capacitors 8534 Printed
circuits 8536 69 Coaxial connectors; cylindrical multicontact connectors; rack
and panel connectors; printed circuit connectors; ribbon or flat cable
connectors; other 8536 90 Other electrical apparatus for switching or
protecting electrical circuits, or for making connections to or in electrical
circuits, not elsewhere specified 8537 10 Boards, panels, consoles, desks,
cabinets and other bases, equipped with two or more apparatus of heading 8535
or 8536, for electric control or the distribution of electricity for a voltage
not exceeding 1000 v 8541 10 Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-
emitting diodes (LED) 8541 21 Transistors, other than photosensitive
transistors with a dissipation rate of less than 1 w 8541 29 Transistors,
other than photosensitive transistors, not elsewhere specified 8541 30
Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than photosensitive devices 8541 49
Photosensitive semiconductor devices, not elsewhere specified 8541 51
Semiconductor-based transducers 8541 59 Semiconductor devices, not elsewhere
specified 8541 60 Mounted piezo-electric crystals 8542 31 Electronic
integrated circuits: processors and controllers 8542 32 Memories of electronic
integrated circuits 8542 33 Amplifiers of electronic integrated circuits 8542
39 Other electronic integrated circuits, not elsewhere specified 8543 20
Signal generators 8543 70 02 Microwave amplifiers 8543 70 04 Digital flight-
data recorders 8543 70 90 Other electrical machines and apparatus, having
individual functions, not elsewhere specified in chapter 85 8548 Electrical
parts of machinery or apparatus, not elsewhere specified in chapter 85 8805 10
Aircraft launching gear and parts thereof; deck-arrestor or similar gear and
parts thereof 8806 91 Unmanned aerial vehicles other than those designed for
carrying passengers 8806 92 8806 93 8806 94 8806 99 8807 30 Other parts of
aeroplanes, helicopters or unmanned aircraft 9006 30 Cameras specially
designed for underwater use, for aerial survey or for medical or surgical
examination of internal organs; comparison cameras for forensic or
criminological purposes 9006 91 Parts and accessories of photographic (other
than cinematographic) cameras; photographic flashlight apparatus and
flashbulbs other than discharge lamps of heading 8539 9013 10 Telescopic
sights for fitting to arms of lasers, other than laser diodes, and of other
optical appliances and instruments, not elsewhere specified in chapter 90 9013
20 Lasers, other than laser diodes 9013 80 Other devices, appliances and
instruments of lasers, other than laser diodes, and of other optical
appliances and instruments, not elsewhere specified in chapter 90 9013 90 80
Other parts and accessories of lasers, other than laser diodes, and of other
optical appliances and instruments, not elsewhere specified in chapter 90 9014
20 Instruments and appliances for aeronautical or space navigation, other than
compasses 9014 80 Other navigational instruments and appliances 9015 10
Rangefinders 9015 80 Surveying (including photogrammetrical surveying),
hydrographic, oceanographic, hydrological, meteorological or geophysical
instruments and appliances, excluding compasses; rangefinders: Other
instruments and appliances 9015 90 Surveying (including photogrammetrical
surveying), hydrographic, oceanographic, hydrological, meteorological or
geophysical instruments and appliances, excluding compasses; rangefinders:
Parts and accessories 9025 80 Hydrometers and similar floating instruments,
thermometers, pyrometers, barometers, hygrometers and psychrometers, recording
or not, and any combination of these instruments: Other instruments 9025 90
Hydrometers and similar floating instruments, thermometers, pyrometers,
barometers, hygrometers and psychrometers, recording or not, and any
combination of these instruments: Parts and accessories 9026 80 Instruments
and apparatus for measuring or checking the flow, level, pressure or other
variables of liquids or gases (for example, flow meters, level gauges,
manometers, heat meters), excluding instruments and apparatus of heading 9014,
9015, 9028 or 9032: Other instruments 9026 90 Instruments and apparatus for
measuring or checking the flow, level, pressure or other variables of liquids
or gases (for example, flow meters, level gauges, manometers, heat meters),
excluding instruments and apparatus of heading 9014, 9015, 9028 or 9032: Parts
and accessories 9027 50 Other instruments and apparatus using optical
radiations (ultraviolet, visible, infrared) 9030 20 Oscilloscopes and
oscillographs 9030 32 Multimeters, with a recording device 9030 39 Other
instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking voltage, current,
resistance or power: Other, with a recording device 9030 82 Oscilloscopes,
spectrum analysers and other instruments and apparatus for measuring or
checking electrical quantities: For measuring or checking semiconductor wafers
or devices 9031 80 20 Measuring or checking instruments, appliances and
machines, not elsewhere specified in chapter 90; profile projectors: For
measuring or checking geometrical quantities 9031 80 80 Other measuring or
checking instruments, appliances and machines, not elsewhere specified in
chapter 90; profile projectors 9031 90 Parts and accessories of measuring or
checking instruments, appliances and machines, not elsewhere specified in
chapter 90; profile projectors 9032 10 Thermostats 9033 00 90 Other parts and
accessories (not elsewhere specified in chapter 90) for machines, appliances,
instruments or apparatus of chapter 90

##### Items that are specified by description

4

Equipment specially designed for satellite navigation equipment, including
aerials and antennas suitable for the reception of GNSS signals.

5

Airborne laser rangefinder.

6

LIDAR systems.

7

Pitot tubes and air measurement sensors for unmanned aerial vehicles.

8

Engine fuel management systems and pressure transmitter for use in unmanned
aerial vehicles.

9

Software programming devices for use with unmanned aerial vehicles.

10

Software defined radios designed or modified for use on unmanned aerial
vehicles.

11

Single board computers for use in unmanned aerial vehicles.

12

Video encoding devices for use in unmanned aerial vehicles.

13

Technology, designed or specifically adapted for the test, development or
production of equipment listed in Parts 2 and 3 of this Schedule.

Treasury licences: purposes

Regulation 60

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

“ consular post ” has the same meaning as in the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations done at Vienna on 24 April 1963 , and any reference to the functions
of a consular post is to be read in accordance with that Convention; “
designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in Part 3 (Finance);
“diplomatic mission” and any reference to the functions of a diplomatic
mission, are to be read in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations done at Vienna on 18 April 1961; “ frozen funds or economic
resources ” means funds or economic resources frozen by virtue of regulation
15, and any reference to a person’s frozen funds or economic resources is to
funds or economic resources frozen as a consequence of the designation of that
person for the purpose of that regulation.

##### Basic needs

2

2.1

To enable the basic needs of a designated person, or (in the case of an
individual) any dependent family member of such a person, to be met.

2.2

In the case of an individual in sub-paragraph (1), “ basic needs ” includes—

2.2.a

medical needs;

2.2.b

needs for—

2.2.b.i

food;

2.2.b.ii

payment of insurance premiums;

2.2.b.iii

payment of tax;

2.2.b.iv

rent or mortgage payments;

2.2.b.v

utility payments.

2.3

In the case of a person other than an individual in sub-paragraph (1), “ basic
needs ” includes needs for—

2.3.a

payment of insurance premiums;

2.3.b

payment of reasonable fees for the provision of property management services;

2.3.c

payment of remuneration, allowances or pensions of employees;

2.3.d

payment of tax;

2.3.e

rent or mortgage payments;

2.3.f

utility payments.

2.4

In sub-paragraph (1)—

“ dependent ” means financially dependent; “ family member ” includes— the
wife or husband of the designated person; the civil partner of the designated
person; any parent or other ascendant of the designated person; any child or
other descendant of the designated person; any person who is a brother or
sister of the designated person, or a child or other descendant of such a
person.

##### Legal services

3

To enable the payment of—

3.a

reasonable professional fees for the provision of legal services, or

3.b

reasonable expenses associated with the provision of legal services.

##### Maintenance of frozen funds and economic resources

4

To enable the payment of—

4.a

reasonable fees, or

4.b

reasonable service charges,

arising from the routine holding or maintenance of frozen funds or economic
resources.

##### Extraordinary expenses

5

To enable an extraordinary expense of a designated person to be met.

##### Pre-existing judicial decisions etc.

6

To enable, by the use of a designated person’s frozen funds or economic
resources, the implementation or satisfaction (in whole or in part) of a
judicial, administrative or arbitral decision or lien, provided that—

6.a

the funds or economic resources so used are the subject of the decision or
lien,

6.b

the decision or lien—

6.b.i

was made or established before the date on which the person became a
designated person, and

6.b.ii

is enforceable in the United Kingdom, and

6.c

the use of the frozen funds or economic resources does not directly or
indirectly benefit any other designated person.

##### Humanitarian assistance activities etc.

7

7.1

To enable anything to be done in connection with the performance of any
humanitarian assistance activity.

7.2

In sub-paragraph (1) “ humanitarian assistance activity ” includes the work of
international and non-governmental organisations carrying out relief
activities in Iran for the benefit of the civilian population there.

##### Diplomatic missions

8

To enable anything to be done in order that the functions of a diplomatic
mission or consular post in Iran or of an international organisation enjoying
immunities in accordance with international law may be carried out.

##### Extraordinary situation

9

To enable anything to be done to deal with an extraordinary situation.

##### Prior obligations

10

To enable, by the use of a designated person’s frozen funds or economic
resources, the satisfaction of an obligation of that person (whether arising
under a contract, other agreement or otherwise), provided that—

10.a

the obligation arose before the date on which the person became a designated
person, and

10.b

no payments are made to another designated person, whether directly or
indirectly.

##### Medical goods or services

11

11.1

To enable anything to be done in connection with the provision of medical
goods or services for the benefit of the civilian population of a country.

11.2

To enable the import, export or use of medical goods.

##### Food

12

To enable anything to be done in connection with the production or
distribution of food for the benefit of the civilian population of a country.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act
2018 (c. 13)  to establish a sanctions regime in relation to Iran for the
purpose of encouraging the Government of Iran to comply with international
human rights law and to respect human rights and to deter the Government of
Iran or an armed group backed by the Government of Iran from conducting
hostile activity against the United Kingdom and other countries.

  The Regulations revoke and replace the Iran (Sanctions) (Human Rights) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2019.

  Part 2 of the Regulations confers a power on the Secretary of State to
designate persons who are, or have been, involved in the commission of serious
human rights violations or abuses in Iran or involved in hostile activity
against the United Kingdom and other countries for the purposes of financial,
director disqualification, immigration or shipping sanctions.

  Part 3 of the Regulations provides for designated persons to be made subject
to financial sanctions, including having their funds and/or economic resources
frozen.

  Part 4 of the Regulations provides for designated persons to be made subject
to director disqualification sanctions for the purpose of disqualifying those
persons from being a director of a company or directly or indirectly taking
part in or being concerned in the promotion, formation or management of a
company.

  Part 5 of the Regulations provides that designated persons are “ excluded
persons ” for the purposes of section 8B of the Immigration Act  1971 (c. 77)
, meaning generally that they must be refused leave to enter the United
Kingdom and leave to remain in the United Kingdom, and any leave that has been
granted is invalid.

  Part 6 of the Regulations imposes trade restrictions on specified goods and
technology which may be used to repress the civilian population of Iran (as
specified in Schedule 2 to these Regulations) and on specified goods and
technology (as specified in Schedule 3 to these Regulations) which may be used
for interception and monitoring services in Iran. A further trade sanction
that is imposed by these Regulations is to prohibit the provision of
interception and monitoring services to, or for the benefit of, the Government
of Iran. Part 6 also imposes trade restrictions on specified goods and
technology which may be used by Iran to build and improve their unmanned
aerial vehicle systems (as specified in Schedule 4 to these Regulations).

  Part 7 of the Regulations prohibits ships owned, controlled, chartered or
operated by a designated person, or where they are a specified ship, from
entering ports in the United Kingdom. There is a notification and publicity
requirement where the specification power is used. The Regulations provide the
Secretary of State with a power to control the movement of ships owned,
controlled, chartered or operated by a designated person, or specified ships,
by requiring them to leave or enter specified ports, proceed to a specified
place or remain where they are. The Regulations also confer powers on the
Secretary of State and harbour authorities to detain ships owned, controlled,
chartered or operated by a designated person, or specified ships, at ports or
anchorages. The registration of ships on the UK Ship Register is prohibited
where they are owned, controlled, chartered or operated by a designated
person, or where they are a specified ship.

  Part 8 of the Regulations provides for certain exceptions to this sanctions
regime, in particular in relation to financial sanctions (for example to allow
for frozen accounts to be credited with interest or other earnings) and also
acts done for the purpose of national security or the prevention of serious
crime. The Regulations also confer powers on the Secretary of State and the
Treasury to issue licences in respect of activities that would otherwise be
prohibited under the financial, director disqualification and trade sanctions
imposed. Schedule 5 to these Regulations sets out the purposes pursuant to
which the Treasury will issue such licences.

  Part 9 of the Regulations confers powers for obtaining and disclosing
information to enable the effective implementation and enforcement of the
sanctions regime, and imposes obligations on various persons to report
relevant information to the appropriate (specified) authorities. In Part 10,
the Regulations prescribe the mode of trial and penalties that apply to
offences under the Regulations. They also provide for the application of
similar types of provision in the Customs and Excise Management Act  1979 (c.
2)  to certain offences related to trade.

  Part 11 of the Regulations confers powers on specified maritime enforcement
officers to stop and search ships in international and foreign waters for the
purpose of enforcing specified trade sanctions and to seize goods found on
board ships which are being, or have been, dealt with in contravention, or
deemed contravention, of those prohibitions.

  Part 12 of the Regulations contains supplementary provision, including
transitional provision for licences issued under previous legislation to
continue to have effect and, where the designated person was previously
designated under another enactment, for the provisions relating to prior
obligations to be read in accordance with the date that the designated person
was first designated. Existing designations made under the Iran (Sanctions)
(Human Rights) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 are saved and treated as made under
regulation 5 of these Regulations.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for the Regulations as no, or
no significant, impact is foreseen on the private, voluntary or public sectors
in the United Kingdom. A de minimis assessment has been prepared as this
instrument is likely to entail some costs for businesses, but the net impact
is estimated to be below £10 million per year.

