Title: The Energy Bill Relief Scheme (Non-Standard Cases) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision about the Energy Bill Relief Scheme for Non-Standard Customers in Great Britain and Northern Ireland (“the Scheme”) by which the Secretary of State provides certain non-domestic customers with financial assistance to meet costs related to the use of electricity and gas. Assistance is provided under “scheme agreements”, that incorporate published “Scheme Terms”. Amongst other things, the Scheme Terms set out the criteria that customers, and the energy that they consume, must meet if they are to receive assistance.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/9

## The Energy Bill Relief Scheme (Non-Standard Cases) Regulations 2023

    Energy

Approved by both Houses of Parliament

  Made   10th January 2023

  Laid before Parliament   11th January 2023

  Coming into force   12th January 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 19, 26(2)(a) and (b) and (9), and 27(2)(b) of
the Energy Prices Act 2022 .

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Energy Bill Relief Scheme (Non-Standard
Cases) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 12th January 2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Energy Prices Act 2022; “licensed electricity supplier”—
in England and Wales and Scotland, has the meaning given in section 10(2) of
the Act; in Northern Ireland, has the meaning given in section 12(2) of the
Act; “licensed gas supplier”— in England and Wales and Scotland, has the
meaning given in section 10(6) of the Act; in Northern Ireland, has the
meaning given in section 12(5) of the Act; “ non-domestic supply ” means— the
provision of relevant energy in England and Wales or Scotland that— if the
relevant energy is electricity, would be GB non-domestic electricity supply
within the meaning of section 10(4) of the Act if the electricity were
provided by a licensed electricity supplier; if the relevant energy is gas,
would be GB non-domestic gas supply within the meaning of section 10(8) of the
Act if the gas were provided by a licensed gas supplier; the provision of
relevant energy in Northern Ireland that— if the relevant energy is
electricity, is NI non-domestic electricity supply within the meaning of
section 12(4) of the Act ; if the relevant energy is gas, is NI non-domestic
gas supply within the meaning of section 12(7)   of the Act; “ non-standard
customer ” means a person that receives a non-domestic supply of relevant
energy; “ relevant energy ” means— electricity conveyed by electric lines,
within the meaning of section 64(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 , that— is
provided, otherwise than by a licensed electricity supplier, to a person that
consumes it, and before being provided to the person that consumes it, is not
provided to another person by a licensed electricity supplier; gas, consisting
wholly or mainly of methane, conveyed by pipes, that— is provided, otherwise
than by a licensed gas supplier, to a person that consumes it, and before
being provided to the person that consumes it, is not provided to another
person by a licensed gas supplier, and, for the purposes of paragraphs (a)(i)
and (b)(i), the provision of electricity or gas to a person includes its
provision to itself of electricity or gas that it acquires as a Trading Party
or a Shipper User; “ relevant person ” means a person— that is a non-standard
customer, that— provides relevant energy by way of non-domestic supply to a
non-standard customer that is not a Trading Party or a Shipper User, or
purchases relevant energy with a view to its being provided (by itself or
another) to a person within paragraph (a), or that provides a service to a
person within paragraph (a) or (b) in respect of the provision of relevant
energy; “ scheme agreement ” means an agreement between the Secretary of State
and a relevant person, which incorporates— the Scheme Terms, the Scheme Terms
as amended by the Secretary of State in accordance with the Scheme Terms (or
the Scheme Terms as amended by the Secretary of State) and published after the
date of publication of the Scheme Terms, or any substantially similar terms
published by the Secretary of State under which the Secretary of State
provides support for meeting costs related to the use of relevant energy; “
the Scheme Terms ” means the document entitled “Energy Bill Relief Scheme for
Non-Standard Customers in Great Britain and Northern Ireland: Scheme Terms”
dated 9th January 2023 and published by the Secretary of State on 9th January
2023   as amended and republished on 24th April 2023 ; “ Shipper User ” has
the meaning given in the Uniform Network Code (being the code of that name
whose preparation and modification is provided for in the conditions of
transportation licences granted under section 7 of the Gas Act 1986 : see
paragraph 2.2.1 of Section B of the General Terms of that code ) as it was in
force on 1st January 2023; “ Trading Party ” has the meaning given in the
Balancing and Settlement Code (being the code for governance of electricity
balancing and settlement in Great Britain that is maintained in accordance
with the conditions of licences granted under section 6(1)(b) of the
Electricity Act 1989 : see section X-1 of that code ) as it was in force on
1st January 2023.

### Relevant agreements

#### Interpretation of this Part

3

In this Part, “ relevant agreement ” means an agreement or other arrangement
between——

3.a

two or more relevant persons, or

3.b

one or more relevant persons and one or more persons who are not relevant
persons,

in connection with the provision of relevant energy, or services relating to
the provision of relevant energy.

#### Duty of relevant persons to provide information to the Secretary of State

4

4.1

In this regulation, “ relevant information ” means information or documents
that are specified, or of a description specified, in a notice given under
paragraph (2).

4.2

The Secretary of State may give to a relevant person, or a person that the
Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe is a relevant person, a
notice requesting specified information or documents, or information or
documents of a specified description, relating to—

4.2.a

the existence, contents or effect of a relevant agreement, or

4.2.b

any matter connected with its operation (including information about any
plant, equipment or apparatus used to implement it).

4.3

A notice under paragraph (2) may specify the form in which relevant
information is to be provided and must—

4.3.a

be in writing;

4.3.b

specify the period within which the recipient of the notice is required to
respond to it;

4.3.c

identify, so far as practicable—

4.3.c.i

the relevant agreement about which the relevant information is requested;

4.3.c.ii

the relevant energy to which the Secretary of State believes that the relevant
agreement relates.

4.4

A notice under paragraph (2) may only be given for the purposes of—

4.4.a

facilitating—

4.4.a.i

the entry of a relevant person into a scheme agreement, or

4.4.a.ii

the implementation of a scheme agreement;

4.4.b

enabling or assisting the Secretary of State—

4.4.b.i

to determine whether a scheme agreement has been entered into or implemented
(including as regards any payments made under it) in accordance with any terms
incorporated or otherwise included in it;

4.4.b.ii

to reach a decision about whether, or how, to exercise any function or
discretion of the Secretary of State set out in those terms (including as
regards their amendment);

4.4.b.iii

to ensure the proper accounting for, tracing and control of public money in
connection with scheme agreements.

4.5

A person that receives a notice under paragraph (2) must respond to it—

4.5.a

in writing, within the period specified in the notice for responding to it,
and

4.5.b

by providing the Secretary of State—

4.5.b.i

with the relevant information, if it has it or can readily obtain it,

4.5.b.ii

if it does not have, and cannot readily obtain, the relevant information, but
is able to provide other information or documents that may enable the
Secretary of State to obtain it, with that other information or those other
documents, or

4.5.b.iii

with an explanation of why it is unable to comply with either paragraph (i) or
paragraph (ii) (which may include that it is not a relevant person).

4.6

A person’s duty under paragraph (5)—

4.6.a

is owed to the Secretary of State, and enforceable in civil proceedings—

4.6.a.i

for an injunction,

4.6.a.ii

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988 , or

4.6.a.iii

for any other appropriate remedy or relief;

4.6.b

does not apply to so much of the relevant information as the person would in
legal proceedings be entitled to refuse to provide on grounds of legal
privilege.

#### Implied terms

5

5.1

The following terms are implied into each relevant agreement—

5.1.a

a term to the effect that in complying with a duty owed under regulation 4(5),
a relevant person that is a party to the agreement does not breach any
obligation that that person owes under the relevant agreement to any other
person that is a party to it;

5.1.b

a term to the effect that each party to the agreement (“ A ”) owes each other
party (“ B ”) a duty to take such steps as B may reasonably request A to take
in order to facilitate—

5.1.b.i

the entry of B, or another relevant person, into a scheme agreement that it is
entitled to enter into, or

5.1.b.ii

the receipt by B, or another relevant person, of financial assistance from the
Secretary of State in accordance with the terms of a scheme agreement.

5.2

The following terms are implied into each relevant agreement under which a
relevant person provides relevant energy to a non-standard customer that is
not a Trading Party or a Shipper User—

5.2.a

a term to the effect that if—

5.2.a.i

one party to the relevant agreement (“ X ”) is notified, by the Secretary of
State, that an amount received by X under a scheme agreement must be repaid to
the Secretary of State in accordance with the terms of that scheme agreement,

5.2.a.ii

X has in accordance with those terms paid any part of that amount (such part
being the “relevant amount”) to another party to the relevant agreement (“ Y
”), and

5.2.a.iii

X informs Y of the notification it has received as referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) and of the relevant amount,

Y undertakes to repay to X, or to the Secretary of State, at X’s request, the
relevant amount;

5.2.b

a term to the effect that the relevant person who provides relevant energy
under the relevant agreement (“ P ”) may recover over a reasonable period from
the person to whom it is provided under that agreement (“ C ”) an amount that
represents an appropriate share of P’s relevant costs.

5.3

A term implied by paragraph (1) or (2)—

5.3.a

is implied into a relevant agreement only if, and to the extent that, the
agreement does not otherwise make provision to the same or similar effect;

5.3.b

prevails over or disapplies any other term of a relevant agreement into which
it is implied to the extent that that other term may be construed as
conflicting with the implied term or preventing it from being given effect.

5.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b)—

5.4.a

P’s “relevant costs” are its costs, reasonably and efficiently incurred in
implementing a scheme agreement to which it is a party and under which it
receives, or may receive, payments in respect of the provision of the relevant
energy that it provides to C;

5.4.b

a share of P’s relevant costs is “appropriate” if it reflects the share of all
the relevant energy provided by P to non-standard customers to which P’s
scheme agreement relates that is accounted for by the relevant energy that P
provided to C under the relevant agreement during the period to which the
scheme agreement relates.

### Pass-through Requirement

#### Interpretation of this Part

6

In this Part—

      “ end user ” means an end user as defined in section 19(3) of the Act
other than an excluded end user;           “ excluded end user ” means a
person to whom a relevant intermediary located in Northern Ireland supplies or
makes available energy , heating and/or hot water at premises located outside
England, Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland;           “ excluded person ”
means a person engaged in either or both of the provision of accommodation
within the meaning of standard industrial classification divisions 55.1, 55.2,
55.3 (except relevant accommodation providers) and 55.9 (except persons
providing student residences, school dormitories, workers hostels and rooming
and boarding houses) and the provision of energy, heating and/or hot water to
such accommodation;           “ heating and/or hot water ” means heating
and/or hot water provided through a heat network;           “ heat network ”
means a network that, by distributing a liquid or a gas, enables the transfer
of thermal energy for the purpose of supplying heating or hot water to a
building or persons in that building;           “ pass-through ” means the act
of a relevant intermediary of passing through all or part of a scheme benefit
to an end user;           “ pass-through amount ” means an amount, being all
or part of a scheme benefit, which is passed through to an end user by a
relevant intermediary pursuant to these Regulations;           “ period ” in
relation to—         a scheme benefit falling under paragraph (a) of the
definition of that term in this regulation, means the period in respect of
which that scheme benefit was provided to the relevant intermediary, and
a pass-through amount, means the period in connection with which such pass-
through was effected;                 “ relevant accommodation providers ”
means—         in England, Wales or Scotland, persons providing mobile homes
on protected sites as defined in the Mobile Homes Act 1983 , or           in
Northern Ireland, persons providing caravans on protected sites defined in the
Caravans Act (Northern Ireland) 2011 .                 “ relevant intermediary
” means a relevant person (other than an excluded person) to whom a scheme
benefit is provided in circumstances in which there is at least one end user
other than the relevant intermediary. In regulation 7, “ relevant intermediary
” includes a person who will have entitlement to have a scheme benefit
provided to it but to whom it has not yet been so provided;           “ scheme
benefit ” means energy price support  in the form of—         financial
assistance provided to a relevant intermediary (as a non-standard customer)
under a scheme agreement where the amount of the scheme benefit is the amount
notified to that relevant intermediary in accordance with the terms of that
agreement, or           where the end user is also a relevant intermediary, a
pass-through made by virtue of these Regulations where the amount of the
scheme benefit is the pass-through amount provided to the end user concerned
(as intermediary),         and the amount of the scheme benefit may be an
amount in pounds sterling or in pounds sterling per kWh (as appropriate) of
energy, heating and/or hot water and a scheme benefit may have been provided
in respect of a period before these Regulations came into force;           “
usage ” means the quantity of—         energy in respect of which a scheme
benefit has been provided, or           heating and/or hot water produced
using energy in respect of which a scheme benefit has been provided,
made available by a relevant intermediary to an end user.

#### Pass-through requirement

7

7.1

A relevant intermediary must not—

7.1.a

do anything which results in a reasonable likelihood that it will not receive
a scheme benefit to which it may otherwise be expected to be entitled either
as a non-standard customer or pursuant to the operation of these Regulations;

7.1.b

provide a pass-through amount to an excluded end user.

7.2

A relevant intermediary must ensure that as soon as reasonably practicable
after a scheme benefit has been provided to it in respect of a period, it
provides to each of its end users in respect of that period a just and
reasonable pass-through amount in respect of the scheme benefit provided to
that relevant intermediary.

7.3

If and to the extent that the relevant intermediary does not pass through the
whole of the scheme benefit provided to it in respect of a period to its end
users, it is for the relevant intermediary to demonstrate to end users that
the pass-through it has effected in respect of the period concerned is just
and reasonable, and in so doing it is entitled to take into account the extent
to which its charges to end users reflect the increased cost of energy,
heating and/or hot water as a result of the energy crisis.

7.4

The pass-through amount must be calculated in accordance with the rules set
out in regulation 8.

7.5

Unless the circumstances in paragraph (7) apply, a scheme benefit is provided
to a relevant intermediary—

7.5.a

when it is notified that a scheme benefit has been provided to it in
accordance with terms incorporated or otherwise included in a scheme
agreement, or

7.5.b

if the relevant intermediary is also an end user, when a pass-through amount
is provided to it by virtue of these Regulations.

7.6

A scheme benefit is deemed to have been provided to a relevant intermediary
when such relevant intermediary is notified that it has been identified as an
end user for the purpose of these Regulations but the pass-through amount set
out in such notification is zero.

7.7

A scheme benefit is not treated as having been provided to a relevant
intermediary for the purposes of these Regulations to the extent that the
relevant intermediary has notified the person that provided the scheme benefit
that it has been provided in error and the relevant intermediary is taking
reasonable steps to return such scheme benefit to that person in accordance
with the requirements of its scheme agreement (as appropriate).

7.8

An end user can also be a relevant intermediary in respect of a scheme benefit
provided to that end user and vice versa.

7.9

Where a person is an end user, and that person is also a relevant intermediary
in respect of some or all of the same energy, heating and/or hot water, that
person must comply with these Regulations.

7.10

To give full effect to the pass-through requirement a relevant intermediary
must take all such reasonable steps as may be necessary to secure that it is
provided with the scheme benefit to which it is entitled so that it may effect
a pass through to its end users.

7.11

If a scheme benefit has been provided to a relevant intermediary in respect of
energy, heating and/or hot water supplied or made available to an excluded end
user, the relevant intermediary must notify the person that provided the
scheme benefit of this and such scheme benefit is not treated as having been
provided to the relevant intermediary for the purposes of these Regulations.

#### Calculation of pass-through amount

8

8.1

Subject to regulation 8(3), the requirement for a relevant intermediary to
provide to end users a pass-through amount that is just and reasonable is
treated as having been met in any case where—

8.1.a

the relevant intermediary makes energy, heating and/or hot water available
through equipment where—

8.1.a.i

tariffs per unit of energy, heating and/or hot water used are automatically
charged by the equipment, and

8.1.a.ii

the energy, heating or hot water is paid for by end users at the time that the
energy, heating and/or hot water is made available, and

8.1.b

the relevant intermediary effects a pass-through by adjusting its tariffs
charged by the equipment to reflect the scheme benefit provided to the
relevant intermediary under its scheme agreement as soon as reasonably
practicable after the scheme benefit is provided to the relevant intermediary
in accordance with regulation 7(5).

8.2

Subject to regulation 8(3), where the relevant intermediary was charging end
users at the point at which the scheme benefit was provided to it either—

8.2.a

according to the proportion which each end user’s usage represents of the
aggregate quantity of energy, heating and/or hot water supplied or made
available to the relevant intermediary which led to provision of the scheme
benefit, or

8.2.b

according to the proportion each end user pays of the total amount paid by the
relevant intermediary in relation to the aggregate energy, heating and/or hot
water supplied or made available to the relevant intermediary which led to the
provision of the scheme benefit,

a pass-through amount is just and reasonable for the purposes of regulation
7(2) if the relevant intermediary applies the same approach, as the case may
be, to calculate the pass-through amount for each end user on this basis.

8.3

If neither paragraph (1) nor paragraph (2) applies, in considering what is
just and reasonable the relevant intermediary must apply the best available
information to allocate the scheme benefit amongst end users and in doing so
may take into account the basis on which the relevant intermediary was
allocating charges amongst end users at the point at which the scheme benefit
was provided to it.

8.4

When calculating the pass-through amount in accordance with this regulation, a
relevant intermediary must take into account circumstances in which a person
is an end user for part of a period, such that the pass-through to that end
user relates only to that part of the relevant period in which they were an
end user.

8.5

A relevant intermediary is not required to pass-through to end users amounts
in excess of the scheme benefit provided to it (as adjusted to take account of
its own end user usage, where relevant).

8.6

When calculating pass-through amounts, a relevant intermediary which is also
an end user in respect of a scheme benefit provided to it must not retain more
of the scheme benefit for itself than is proportionate to its own usage (or,
if it is not practicable to assess the volume of its usage, the proportion of
overall energy, heating and/or hot water charges borne by the relevant
intermediary and its end users that the relevant intermediary itself bears).

8.7

A relevant intermediary is entitled to include energy, heating and/or hot
water used to provide common services to end users as part of its own usage
for the purposes of the calculation in paragraphs (2) or (3) to the extent
that the cost of such energy, heating and/or hot water is or will not be borne
by its end users as part of the arrangements in place when the scheme benefit
was provided to the relevant intermediary in accordance with regulation 7(5).

#### Provision of information to end users

9

9.1

Within the period of 30 days beginning with the day on which the scheme
benefit was provided to it in accordance with regulation 7(5) or was deemed to
have been provided to it in accordance with regulation 7(6), the relevant
intermediary must take reasonable steps to notify its end users in writing
(where possible using the means of communication it customarily uses to
communicate with its end users)—

9.1.a

that the relevant intermediary has either—

9.1.a.i

had a scheme benefit provided to it and has identified the end user as a
person entitled to a just and reasonable proportion of such benefit by virtue
of the application of these Regulations, or

9.1.a.ii

been notified that it has been identified as an end user for the purpose of
these Regulations but the pass-through amount set out in such notification is
zero (and in such circumstances the relevant intermediary must also provide to
its end users the details in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) provided to it in the
notice from its relevant intermediary and the information set out in sub-
paragraphs (f) and (g)),

9.1.b

the amount of scheme benefit provided to the relevant intermediary and that
the scheme benefit has been passed through by virtue of these Regulations,

9.1.c

the amount or proportion of scheme benefit provided to the relevant
intermediary (if any) which it intends to pass-through to the end user
concerned together with supporting details demonstrating why the relevant
intermediary considers such pass-through amount to be just and reasonable,

9.1.d

to the extent applicable, when and how the relevant intermediary will provide
the pass-through amount to the end user,

9.1.e

to the extent applicable, of any steps it is taking to correct an error in the
way in which the relevant intermediary has previously passed-through a scheme
benefit to an end user,

9.1.f

how the end user may appeal to the relevant intermediary about the matters set
out in the notice, and

9.1.g

that if the pass-through amount to which it is entitled by virtue of these
Regulations is not provided to the end user, it is entitled to recover it from
the relevant intermediary as a civil debt pursuant to regulation 11(1).

9.2

Where the relevant intermediary makes energy, heating and/or hot water
available through equipment which automatically charges a tariff per unit of
energy, heating and/or hot water used, paid by end users at the time the
energy, heating and/or hot water is made available—

9.2.a

paragraph (1) does not apply, and

9.2.b

the relevant intermediary must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
scheme benefit was provided to it, notify its end users by notice on or near
such equipment in a place in which it will be seen by end users of—

9.2.b.i

the tariff adjustment which the relevant intermediary has applied pursuant to
these Regulations to effect the pass-through to end users of the scheme
benefit which has been provided to it, and

9.2.b.ii

the contact details of the relevant intermediary which can be used should the
end user require further information about its entitlements under these
Regulations, including the ability to appeal to the relevant intermediary in
respect of the basis on which the tariffs have been adjusted to reflect the
scheme benefit provided to the relevant intermediary.

#### Effecting the pass-through

10

10.1

Notwithstanding any provision in the contract between the relevant
intermediary and the end user at the time the scheme benefit was provided to
the relevant intermediary, the relevant intermediary must effect the pass-
through so that the pass-through amount is provided to the end user as soon as
reasonably practicable.

10.2

Where the relevant intermediary makes energy, heating and/or hot water
available through equipment which automatically charges a tariff per unit of
energy, heating and/or hot water used, paid by end users at the time that the
energy, heating and/or hot water is made available, the relevant intermediary
must as soon as reasonably practicable make such adjustments to its tariff as
is necessary to effect the pass-through required under regulation 7(2).

10.3

Without prejudice to paragraph (1), a pass-through can be effected, in pounds
sterling or pounds sterling per kWh (as appropriate) by—

10.3.a

application of a credit in the next invoice, statement of account or other
similar document provided by the relevant intermediary to the end user,

10.3.b

a payment in cash or by any other means, including a bank transfer,

10.3.c

tariff adjustment on tariff equipment,

10.3.d

adjusting the amount of money taken pursuant to a direct debit or the amount
of a standing order,

10.3.e

set off against an amount or part of an amount which was owed by the end user
to the relevant intermediary at the time at which the scheme benefit was
provided to the relevant intermediary in accordance with regulation 7(5),

or a combination of the methods set out in this paragraph, as appropriate.

10.4

A relevant intermediary has discharged its duty under regulations 7(2), 9(1)
or 9(2), and paragraph (1) in respect of an end user if and to the extent it
has taken reasonable steps to notify and effect a pass-through of a just and
reasonable pass-through amount to that end user but is unable to do so.

10.5

An end user has no right to a pass-through amount if the relevant intermediary
has discharged its duty under regulations 7(2), 9(1) or 9(2), and paragraph
(1) pursuant to paragraph (4) and a period of six months has elapsed after the
scheme benefit concerned was provided to the relevant intermediary.

10.6

If the contract between the relevant intermediary and the end user expires or
is terminated before the pass-through required by these Regulations is
effected (such that the full value of the pass-through amount has not been
provided to the end user), the relevant intermediary must effect a pass
through to the end user to reflect the end user’s entitlement (or remaining
entitlement) under these Regulations as soon as reasonably practicable
following such expiry or termination.

#### Enforcement

11

11.1

Where a relevant intermediary fails to effect a pass-through to which an end
user is entitled by virtue of these Regulations, that end user may, subject to
regulation 10(5), recover the relevant pass-through amount from the relevant
intermediary as a civil debt.

11.2

Where a relevant intermediary fails to effect a pass-through to which an end
user is entitled by virtue of these Regulations, the end user may claim
interest to be paid by the relevant intermediary on such amount at a rate of
2% per cent per annum over the Bank of England base rate from the date 60 days
after the date on which the scheme benefit to which the pass-through relates
was provided to the relevant intermediary.

11.3

For the purposes of this regulation the “ Bank of England base rate ” means—

11.3.a

the rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England as the official dealing rate, being the rate at which the Bank
is willing to enter into transactions for providing short term liquidity in
the money markets, or

11.3.b

where an order under section 19 of the Bank of England Act 1998  (reserve
powers) is in force, any equivalent rate determined by the Treasury under that
section.

      Graham Stuart   Minister of State for Climate   Department for Business,
Energy and Industrial Strategy     10th January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision about the Energy Bill Relief Scheme for
Non-Standard Customers in Great Britain and Northern Ireland (“ the Scheme ”)
by which the Secretary of State provides certain non-domestic customers with
financial assistance to meet costs related to the use of electricity and gas.
Assistance is provided under “scheme agreements”, that incorporate published
“Scheme Terms”. Amongst other things, the Scheme Terms set out the criteria
that customers, and the energy that they consume, must meet if they are to
receive assistance.

  Regulation 2 introduces a number of defined terms that reflect the operation
of the Scheme.

  Regulations 3 and 4 provide the Secretary of State with a power to obtain
information about the supply of gas or electricity to persons who are or may
be eligible for assistance under the Scheme.

  Regulation 5 implies terms into certain descriptions of contract connected
with the provision of energy to persons who are or may be eligible for
assistance under the Scheme.

  These Regulations also make provision for pass-through requirements in
relation to the Scheme. Pass-through requirements are imposed on a “ relevant
intermediary ” (defined in regulation 6) and establish that they must pass-
through the benefits of the scheme to an “end user” to whom energy, heating
and/or hot water has been made available. These Regulations apply in respect
of relevant intermediaries other than those providing certain types of
hospitality accommodation (defined as “excluded persons” under these
Regulations).

  Regulation 7 establishes the requirement for relevant intermediaries to
pass-through a just and reasonable amount of the benefit provided to them
under the Scheme to each of their end users.

  Regulation 8 provides for the calculation of the pass-through amount and
sets out the way in which relevant intermediaries are to determine what is a
just and reasonable amount for the purposes of regulation 7.

  Regulation 9 sets out the information which relevant intermediaries are
required to provide to each of their end users about the scheme benefit
provided to them, the amount or proportion the relevant intermediary intends
to provide to the end user, and supporting details about how they have
calculated that this is a just and reasonable amount.

  Regulation 10 makes provision about the way in which the pass-through is to
be given effect including that it must be provided to the end user as soon as
reasonably practicable after the scheme benefit has been provided to the
relevant intermediary.

  Regulation 11 provides for unpaid pass-through amounts to be recoverable
from the relevant intermediary by the end user as a civil debt.

  An impact assessment of the effect the Scheme, including the related pass-
through requirements, will have on the costs of business and the voluntary
sector is available from the Department for Business Energy and Industrial
Strategy, 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H 0ET.

