Title: The Judicial Pensions (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-05-22
Description: These Regulations amend the Judicial Pensions (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2015 (S.R. 2015 No. 76) (“the 2015 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/63

## The Judicial Pensions (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Public Service Pensions

  Made   4th April 2023

  Coming into operation   2nd May 2023

      The Department of Justice makes these Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(b), 2(1), 3(1) to (3), 18(5), (6),
and (7) (read with section 89(4) and (5) of the Public Service Pensions and
Judicial Offices Act 2022)  and 25(3) of, and paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 and
Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 .
In accordance with section 21 of, and paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 2 to, the
Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 the Department of Justice
has consulted such persons and representatives of such persons as appear to be
likely to be affected by these Regulations.       In accordance with section
3(5) of that Act, the Department of Finance  has consented to the making of
these Regulations.       The Department of Justice has had regard to the
matters referred to in section 5(4) of that Act.           In accordance with
section 24(1)(c) of that Act, the Pension Board for the scheme of judicial
office holders has stated that it considers these Regulations to be minor or
wholly beneficial.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Judicial Pensions (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.

1.2

Save as provided by paragraph (3), these Regulations come into operation on
2nd May 2023 or, if later, the day after the day on which they are made.

1.3

Regulations 1, 2(1) and (2), 4(b), 14, 15 and 16(2)(b), (5) and (6) come into
force on the day after the day on which these Regulations are made.

1.4

In these Regulations—

      “the 2015 Regulations” mean the Judicial Pensions Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015 ;           “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Judicial Pensions
(Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017 .

### Application, effect and transitory provision

2

2.1

Paragraph (2) to (4) and regulations 3 (in so far as it applies to regulations
4(b) and 16(2)(b), (5) and (6)), 4(b) and 16(2)(b), (5) and (6) are deemed to
have effect from 1st April 2015.

2.2

Until the coming into force of regulation 16(2)(e) the definition of “tapered
protection member” in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2015 Regulations is to
have effect as though for “12 and 13” there were substituted  “12, 13 and 13A”
.

2.3

Paragraph (4) of this regulation applies where a person (P) is—

2.3.a

a member of the scheme established by the 2015 Regulations; and

2.3.b

a person to whom regulation 48(1) of the 2017 Regulations applies.

2.4

The 2015 Regulations are to apply to the calculation of any sums payable in
respect of P’s retirement or death under the 2015 Regulations as though—

2.4.a

the amendments made by these Regulations other than regulations 14 and 15; and

2.4.b

the 2017 Regulations, had been in force on the day before the day on which P
retired or died.

### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2015

3

The 2015 Regulations are amended in accordance with regulations 4 to 17.

4

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

4.a

In the appropriate place, insert—

      “ FPJR 2017 ” means the Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations
2017;

;

      “ the Fee-Paid Judges Scheme ” means the scheme established by Parts 1
to 11 of the FPJR 2017;

;

      “ qualifying judicial service ” has the meaning given in regulation 6 of
the FPJR 2017;

;

      “ relevant scheme ” means—         an existing scheme;           the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme;

, and

4.b

in the definition of “index adjustment”, for “that scheme year” substitute
“the previous scheme year” .

5

In regulation 17 (enrolment), in paragraph (2)(b)(ii), for “an existing”
substitute  “a relevant” .

6

In regulation 55 (qualifying service)—

6.a

for “an existing” in both places where it occurs substitute  “a relevant” ,
and

6.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

6.b.3

In this regulation a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

7

In regulation 97 (entitlement to surviving adult’s pension)—

7.a

in paragraphs (1) and (2), for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” , and

7.b

after paragraph (5) insert—

7.b.6

In this regulation a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

8

In regulation 100 (annual rate of surviving adult’s pension on death in
service)—

8.a

In paragraphs (2) and (5)(b)(i), for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” ,
and

8.b

At the end insert—

8.b.7

In this regulation a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

9

In regulation 119 (meaning of “ final pay ”)—

9.a

for paragraph (4) substitute—

9.a.4

In this regulation and in regulation 120, if the member is a transition member
with continuity of service, “pensionable earnings” in respect of any period
includes—

9.a.4.a

the member’s pensionable earnings under an existing scheme before the closing
date; and

9.a.4.b

the amount which is the higher of—

9.a.4.b.i

the total fees paid to the member in respect of qualifying fee-paid service in
the period in question, or

9.a.4.b.ii

the total fees which would have been paid to the member in respect of such
service in the period in question if, for any office held by the member, the
daily fee paid to the member had been the daily fee determined by the
Industrial Tribunals and Fair Employment Tribunal or accepted by the
appropriate Minister to be payable in respect of that period.

, and

9.b

after paragraph (4) insert—

9.b.5

In this regulation “ qualifying fee-paid service ” has the meaning given in
regulation 4 of the FPJR 2017.

.

10

In regulation 120 (meaning of “ annualised final pay ”) omit paragraph (3).

11

In regulation 121 (amount payable on death in service)—

11.a

in paragraph (2) for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” , and

11.b

after paragraph (7) insert—

11.b.8

In this regulation a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

12

In regulation 122 (amount payable on death out of service), in paragraph (2),
for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” .

13

Omit regulation 144.

14

In regulation 153 (forfeiture: relevant monetary obligations and relevant
monetary losses), in paragraph 5—

14.a

in sub-paragraph (c) of the definition of “relevant monetary obligation” for
“criminal, fraudulent or negligent” substitute  “criminal or fraudulent” , and

14.b

in sub-paragraph (b) of the definition of “relevant monetary loss” for
“criminal, fraudulent or negligent” substitute  “criminal or fraudulent” .

15

In regulation 154 (set-off)—

15.a

After paragraph (3)(a), insert—

15.a.aa

arose out of P’s criminal or fraudulent act or omission;

, and

15.b

In paragraph (4)(b), for “criminal, fraudulent or negligent” substitute
“criminal or fraudulent” .

16

16.1

Schedule 2 (transitional provisions) is amended as follows.

16.2

In paragraph 1 (interpretation)—

16.2.a

in the definition of “closing date”—

16.2.a.i

for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” , and

16.2.a.ii

for “that scheme” substitute  “such a scheme” ;

16.2.b

in the definition of “full protection member”, for “8 and 9” substitute  “8, 9
and 9A” ;

16.2.c

in the definition of “protected member” for “an existing” substitute  “a
relevant” ;

16.2.d

in the definition of “tapered protection closing date” for “an existing”
substitute  “a relevant” ;

16.2.e

for the definition of “tapered protection member” substitute—

      “tapered protection member”—         in relation to an existing scheme,
has the meaning given in paragraphs 12, 13 and 13A; and           in relation
to the Fee-Paid Judges Scheme, means a person who meets the conditions in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (d) of regulation 14(6);

;

16.2.f

in the definition of “transition date”—

16.2.f.i

for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” ;

16.2.f.ii

for “that scheme” substitute  “such a scheme” , and

16.2.g

in the definition of “transition member” for “an existing” substitute  “a
relevant” .

16.3

In paragraph 2 (meaning of “ continuity of service ”)—

16.3.a

renumber the existing text as sub-paragraph (1);

16.3.b

in that paragraph for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” , and

16.3.c

at the end insert—

16.3.c.2

In this paragraph a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

16.4

In paragraph 3 (meaning of “ tapered protection closing date ”)—

16.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

16.4.a.i

for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” , and

16.4.a.ii

omit “under Part 4 of this Schedule”, and

16.4.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

16.4.b.3

In this paragraph “ the option ” means—

16.4.b.3.a

in relation to an existing scheme, the option under Part 4 of this Schedule;

16.4.b.3.b

in relation to the Fee-Paid Judges Scheme, the option under regulation
14(6)(d).

.

16.5

After paragraph 9 (members moving between schemes after the scheme closing
date) insert—

######### Members with previous service in a fee-paid office

16.5.9A

A person (P) is a full protection member of an existing scheme if—

16.5.9A.a

P was serving in a fee-paid office on 31st March 2012;

16.5.9A.b

P was aged 55 years or over on 1st April 2012;

16.5.9A.c

the appropriate Minister has notified P that P is eligible to a pension in
respect of their service in that fee-paid office;

16.5.9A.d

P either—

16.5.9A.d.i

was an active member of an existing scheme on the scheme closing date, or

16.5.9A.d.ii

begins service, which would have been pensionable under an existing scheme,
after scheme closing date, and

16.5.9A.e

P would, unless P dies, reach normal pension age under that scheme on or
before 1st April 2022.

.

16.6

After paragraph 13 (members moving between schemes after the scheme closing
date) insert—

######### Members with previous service in a fee-paid office

16.6.13A

A person (P) is a tapered protection member of an existing scheme if—

16.6.13A.a

P was serving in a fee-paid office on 31st March 2012;

16.6.13A.b

P was aged between 51 years and 6 months and 55 years on 1st April 2012;

16.6.13A.c

the appropriate Minister has notified P that P is eligible to a pension in
respect of their service in that fee-paid office;

16.6.13A.d

P either—

16.6.13A.d.i

was an active member of an existing scheme on the scheme closing date, or

16.6.13A.d.ii

begins service, which would have been pensionable under an existing scheme,
after the scheme closing date, but before the tapered protection closing date
for that scheme, and

16.6.13A.e

P would, unless P dies, reach normal pension age under that scheme during the
period beginning with 2nd April 2022 and ending with 1st September 2025.

.

16.7

In the heading before paragraph 15 for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant”
.

16.8

In paragraph 15 (transition member who has not reached normal pension age), in
sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) for “an existing” in each place where it
occurs substitute  “a relevant” .

16.9

In paragraph 16 (annual rate of surviving adult’s pensions when transition
member dies in service)—

16.9.a

in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) and in the definition of “period of service” in
sub-paragraph (4), for “an existing” in each place where it occurs substitute
“a relevant” , and

16.9.b

at the end, insert—

16.9.b.5

In this paragraph a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

16.10

In paragraph 17 (annual rate of eligible child’s pension when transition
member dies in service)—

16.10.a

in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) and in the definition of “period of service” in
sub-paragraph (4), for “an existing” in each place where it occurs substitute
“a relevant” , and

16.10.b

at the end, insert—

16.10.b.5

In this regulation a reference to “ pensionable service ” in relation to the
Fee-Paid Judges Scheme is a reference to qualifying judicial service.

.

16.11

In paragraph 18(2)(b) (death in service lump sum) for “an existing” substitute
“a relevant” .

16.12

In paragraph 19 (death out of service lump sum)—

16.12.a

for “an existing” in each place where it occurs substitute  “a relevant” ; and

16.12.b

for “the existing” substitute  “the relevant” .

16.13

In the heading to Part 7 for “an existing scheme” substitute  “relevant
schemes” .

16.14

In the heading to paragraph 21 for “the existing” substitute  “a relevant” .

16.15

In paragraph 21 (repayment of contributions under the existing scheme) for “an
existing” in both places where it occurs substitute  “a relevant” .

16.16

In the heading to paragraph 23 for “the existing” substitute  “a relevant” .

16.17

In paragraph 23 (nomination under existing scheme continues to have effect)
for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

16.17.3

In this paragraph, “ existing nomination ” means—

16.17.3.a

a nomination which—

16.17.3.a.i

was made for the purpose of a relevant scheme; and

16.17.3.a.ii

at the closing date, had effect under that scheme; or

16.17.3.b

a nomination which—

16.17.3.b.i

was made in anticipation of membership of the Fee-Paid Judges Scheme; and

16.17.3.b.ii

at the closing date would have had effect under that scheme if it had been in
force.

.

17

17.1

Schedule 3 (modifying provisions and amendments) is amended as follows.

17.2

In paragraph 1 (application) for “an existing” substitute  “a relevant” .

17.3

In paragraph 2(3)(a) after “the Act” insert  “and the scheme created by the
Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017” .

17.4

In paragraph 3 (application)—

17.4.a

renumber the existing text as sub-paragraph (1);

17.4.b

in that sub-paragraph omit “(“ the old scheme ”)”, and

17.4.c

at the end insert—

17.4.c.2

This Part also applies where a person (P)—

17.4.c.2.a

is a member of the Fee-Paid Judges Scheme by virtue of pensionable service for
that scheme;

17.4.c.2.b

is a member of this scheme by virtue of pensionable service for this scheme;

17.4.c.2.c

P’s service in the Fee-Paid Judges Scheme and service in the new scheme are
continuous.

17.4.c.3

In this Part “ the old scheme ” means a scheme referred to in sub-paragraph
(1)(a) or (2)(a) of which P is a member.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 4th April
2023         Richard Pengelly   A senior officer of the   Department of
Justice           The Department of Finance consents to the foregoing
Regulations.       Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance
on 4th April 2023         Patrick Neeson   A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  These Regulations amend the Judicial Pensions (Northern Ireland) Regulations
2015 ( S.R. 2015 No. 76 ) (“ the 2015 Regulations ”).

  Regulations 4(a), 5 to 12, 16(2)(a) and (c) to (g), (3), (4) and (7) to (17)
and 17 make provision consequential upon the making of the Judicial Pensions
(Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017 ( S.I.2017/522  (“ the 2017 Regulations ”)
in order to ensure that, where relevant, pensions calculated under the 2015
Regulations take account of a person’s service in the scheme established by
the 2017 Regulations as they would take account of a person’s entitlement
under the scheme established by the Judicial Pensions and Retirement Act  1993
(c. 8) .

  Regulation 4(b) corrects the definition of index adjustment to ensure that
adjustment of the opening balance of a member’s pension account is made using
the index adjustment for the year it follow.

  Regulations 14 and 15 remove negligence as a basis for forfeiture or set-off
of pension while regulation 16(2)(b) and (e), (5) and (6) apply full and
tapering protection to fee-paid judges who have subsequently been appointed to
salaried office and meet the required age conditions.

  Regulation 2(1) provides that regulation 4(b) has effect from 1st April
2015. It also provides that regulations 2(2) and 16(2)(b), (5) and (6) (which
provide for an extension of full and tapering protection as set out above)
have effect from that date. As those aspects of regulation 16(2)(e) which also
relate to this provision form part of a wider amendment which comes into force
separately regulation 2(2) makes transitory provision which modifies the
definition of “tapered protection member” until regulation 16(2)(e) comes into
force. Regulation 2(3) and (4) ensures that the pension entitlements of, or in
respect of, individuals who have already retired or died and who would have
been a member of the scheme established by the 2017 Regulations if they had
been in force are calculated in the same way as those who die or retire after
the coming into force of these Regulations. Section 3(3)(b) of the Public
Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland)  2014 (c. 2)  permits scheme
regulations to make retrospective provision.

  Regulation 13 removes the need for valuations of the scheme to be carried
out.

