Title: The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 (“the 2014 Regulations”) established the Local Government Pension Scheme (“the Scheme”) as a career average revalued earnings scheme in accordance with section 8(2)(a) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/81

## The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

Local Government

Made 17th May 2023

Coming into operation 12th June 2023

The Department for Communities , with the consent of the Department of Finance
, makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 1(1)
and 3(1) to (3) of, and Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland) 2014 , and now vested in it . In accordance with section 21
of that Act, the Department has consulted with such persons or representatives
of such persons as appear to the Department likely to be affected by these
Regulations. The retrospective provisions contained in these Regulations do
not appear to the Department to have significant adverse effects in relation
to the pension payable to or in respect of members of the scheme established
by The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 ,
or the schemes preserved by the Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment and
Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 , nor to have
significant adverse effect in any other way in relation to members of those
schemes. Accordingly, the procedures set out in section 23 of the Public
Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 are not applicable in respect of
these Regulations.

### Citation, commencement and retrospection

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Local Government Pension Scheme
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and except as provided for in
paragraph (2) shall come into operation on 12th June 2023.

1.2

These Regulations shall come into effect from 1st April 2023.

### Amendment of the Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014

2

The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 shall
be amended in accordance with regulations  3  to 8.

### Revaluation date: revaluation adjustments, members

3

3.1

In regulation 25 (active member’s pension accounts)—

3.1.a

in paragraph (2)—

3.1.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) insert  “plus” ;

3.1.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

3.1.a.ii.e

for any Scheme year beginning with the Scheme year that starts on 1st April
2023, the revaluation adjustment which was applied on the revaluation date
falling within that Scheme year;

; and

3.1.a.iii

omit the words from “and the revaluation adjustment” to the end.

3.1.b

in paragraph (3) omit “revalued”; and

3.1.c

after paragraph (3) insert—

3.1.c.3A

Each Scheme year, beginning with the Scheme year that starts on 1st April
2023, the revaluation adjustment must be applied to the balance mentioned at
paragraph (3) on the revaluation date, in accordance with actuarial guidance
issued by the Department.

.

3.2

In regulation 26 (deferred member’s pension account and deferred refund
account)—

3.2.a

after paragraph (4) insert—

3.2.a.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(a), where a member’s last day of active
membership falls in the period beginning with 6th April and ending with 31st
March in any Scheme year, the opening balance includes the revaluation
adjustment which was applied on the revaluation date falling within that
member’s last active Scheme year.

3.2.a.4B

If a member’s last day of active membership falls in the period beginning with
1st April and ending with 5th April in any Scheme year, on the revaluation
date falling within the Scheme year during which the member was last active
the revaluation adjustment must be applied to the opening balance mentioned at
paragraph (4)(a) in accordance with actuarial guidance issued by the
Department.

;

3.2.b

in paragraph (7), for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation
date in” ; and

3.2.c

for paragraph (8) substitute—

3.2.c.8

The balance calculated under paragraph (4) including any adjustment made in
accordance with paragraph (4B), is the opening balance for the following
Scheme year and having applied the revaluation adjustment to the balance in
accordance with paragraph (7) thereafter, subject to paragraph (9), the
balance in the account is adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from
the date that an increase would apply if that balance were a pension in
payment to which the 1971 Act applied.

3.2.c.8A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

3.3

In regulation 27 (retirement pension accounts: active members)—

3.3.a

in paragraph (3), after “regulation 26(4) (deferred member’s pension account
and deferred refund account)” insert  “and where applicable, regulation
26(4A)” ;

3.3.b

after paragraph (4), insert—

3.3.b.4A

If a member’s last day of active membership falls in the period beginning with
1st April and ending with 5th April in any Scheme year, on the revaluation
date falling within the Scheme year during which the member was last active
the revaluation adjustment must be applied to the opening balance for the
member’s last active Scheme year and takes effect from the date the member
became entitled to immediate payment, in accordance with actuarial guidance
issued by the Department.

;

3.3.c

in paragraph (6)—

3.3.c.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ;

3.3.c.ii

after “pensioner member” in the second place where it occurs, insert  “and
takes effect from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in
which the member became a pensioner member” ;

3.3.d

for paragraph (7), substitute—

3.3.d.7

The balance calculated under paragraph (2) including any adjustment made in
accordance with paragraph (4A), is the opening balance for the following
Scheme year and, having applied the revaluation adjustment to the balance in
accordance with paragraph (6), thereafter, the balance is adjusted each year
by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase would apply if
that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act applied.

3.3.d.7A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

;

3.4

In regulation 29 (flexible retirement pension accounts)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (5)—

3.4.a.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ;

3.4.a.ii

after “retirement pension” in the third place where it occurs, insert  “and
takes effect from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in
which the member became entitled to that pension” ;

3.4.b

for paragraph (6) substitute—

3.4.b.6

The balance calculated under paragraph (2), is the opening balance for the
following Scheme year and, having applied the revaluation adjustment to the
balance in accordance with paragraph (5), thereafter, the balance in the
account is adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that
an increase would apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the
1971 Act applied.

3.4.b.7

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

### Survivor benefits: revaluation adjustments, survivor benefits for partners and children of active members

4

4.1

In regulation 41 (survivor benefits: partners of active members)—

4.1.a

after paragraph (4)(a) insert—

4.1.a.aa

for the purposes of sub-paragraph (a), if the member died in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in any Scheme year, the
pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have been
due at the next revaluation date;

;

4.1.b

in paragraph (5)—

4.1.b.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ;

4.1.b.ii

after “was opened,” in the second place where it occurs, insert  “and takes
effect from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in which
the survivor member’s account was opened,” ;

4.1.c

for paragraph (6) substitute—

4.1.c.6

The balance calculated under paragraph (3) is the opening balance of the
survivor member’s pension account for the following Scheme year and, having
applied the revaluation adjustment to the balance in accordance with paragraph
(5), thereafter, the balance in that survivor member’s pension account is
adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase
would apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act
applied.

4.1.c.6A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

4.2

In regulation 43 (survivor benefits: children of active members)—

4.2.a

in paragraph (4)—

4.2.a.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ;

4.2.a.ii

for “valuation” substitute  “revaluation” ; and

4.2.a.iii

after “was opened,” in the second place where it occurs, insert  “and takes
effect from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in which
the survivor member’s account was opened,” ; and

4.2.b

for paragraph (5), substitute—

4.2.b.5

The balance calculated under regulation 44(2) (survivor benefits: children of
active member where pension is payable to partner of an active member) or
45(2) (survivor benefits: children of active member where no pension is
payable to partner of an active member) is the opening balance of the survivor
member’s pension account for the following Scheme year and, having applied the
revaluation adjustment to the balance in accordance with paragraph (4),
thereafter, the balance in that survivor member’s pension account is adjusted
each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase would
apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act applied.

4.2.b.5A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

4.3

In regulation 44 (survivor benefits: children of active members where pension
is payable to partner of an active member) after paragraphs (3)(a) and (4)(a),
in each place insert—

4.3.aa

for the purposes of sub-paragraph (a), if the member died in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in any Scheme year, the
pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have been
due at the next revaluation date;

.

4.4

In regulation 45 (survivor benefits: children of active members where no
pension is payable to partner of an active member) after paragraphs (3)(a) and
(4)(a), in each place insert—

4.4.aa

for the purposes of sub-paragraph (a), if the member died in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in any Scheme year, the
pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have been
due at the next revaluation date;

.

### Survivor benefits: revaluation adjustments, death grants: deferred and pensioner credit members

5

In regulation 46 (death grants: deferred members and pension credit members)—

5.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

5.a.3A

For the purposes of paragraph (3), if the member—

5.a.3A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

5.a.3A.b

ceased to be an active member and became a deferred member in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and
subsequently died within that same period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

; and

5.b

in paragraph (5), at the end insert  “and paragraph (3A) does not apply” .

### Revaluation date: revaluation adjustments, survivor benefits for partners and children of deferred members

6

6.1

In regulation 47 (survivor benefits: partners of deferred members)—

6.1.a

after paragraph (4), insert—

6.1.a.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4), if the member—

6.1.a.4A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

6.1.a.4A.b

ceased to be an active member and became a deferred member in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending 5th April in a Scheme year and
subsequently died within that same period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

;

6.1.b

in paragraph (5)—

6.1.b.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ;

6.1.b.ii

after “was opened,” in the second place where it occurs, insert  “and takes
effect from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in which
the survivor member’s pension account was opened,” ;

6.1.c

for paragraph 6, substitute—

6.1.c.6

Where—

6.1.c.6.a

paragraph (5) applies, the balance calculated under paragraph (3) is the
opening balance of the survivor member’s pension account for the following
Scheme year, and the revaluation adjustment is applied to the balance in
accordance with paragraph (5);

6.1.c.6.b

paragraph (5) does not apply, the balance under paragraph (3) is the opening
balance of the survivor member’s pension account for the following Scheme
year,

and, thereafter, the balance in the survivor member’s pension account is
adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase
would apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act
applied.

6.1.c.6A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

6.2

In regulation 48 (survivor benefits: children of deferred members)—

6.2.a

in paragraph (4)—

6.2.a.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ; and

6.2.a.ii

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.2.b

for paragraph (5), substitute—

6.2.b.5

Where—

6.2.b.5.a

paragraph (4) applies, the balance calculated under regulation 49(2) (survivor
benefits: children of deferred member where pension is payable to partner of
deferred member) or 50(2) (survivor benefits: children of deferred member
where no pension is payable to partner of deferred member) is the opening
balance of the survivor member’s pension account for the following Scheme year
and the revaluation adjustment is applied to the balance in accordance with
paragraph (4);

6.2.b.5.b

paragraph (4) does not apply, the balance under regulation (49)(2) or 50(2),
as the case may be, is the opening balance of the survivor member’s pension
account for the following Scheme year,

and, thereafter, the balance in the survivor member’s pension account is
adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase
would apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act
applied.

6.2.b.5A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

6.3

In regulation 49 (survivor benefits: children of deferred member where pension
is payable to partner of deferred member)—

6.3.a

After paragraph (3) insert—

6.3.a.3A

For the purposes of paragraph (3), if the member—

6.3.a.3A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

6.3.a.3A.b

ceased to be an active member and became a deferred member in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and
subsequently died within that same period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

; and

6.3.b

After paragraph (4) insert—

6.3.b.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4), if the member—

6.3.b.4A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

6.3.b.4A.b

ceased to be an active member and became a deferred member in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and
subsequently died within that same period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

.

6.4

In regulation 50 (survivor benefits: children of deferred member where no
pension is payable to partner of deferred member)—

6.4.a

After paragraph (3) insert—

6.4.a.3A

For the purposes of paragraph (3), if the member—

6.4.a.3A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member become a deferred
member; or

6.4.a.3A.b

ceased to be an active member and became a deferred member in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and
subsequently died within that same period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

;

6.4.b

After paragraph (4) insert—

6.4.b.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4), if the member—

6.4.b.4A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

6.4.b.4A.b

ceased to be an active member and became a deferred member in the period
beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and
subsequently died within that same period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

.

### Survivor benefits: revaluation adjustments, death grants and survivor benefits: pensioner members

7

7.1

In regulation 51 (death grants: pensioner members)  after paragraph (4)
insert  —

7.1.6

For the purposes of a death grant payable in accordance with paragraph (3)
(but not for the purposes of a death grant derived from a pension credit
payable in accordance with paragraph (4)), if the member—

7.1.6.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

7.1.6.b

ceased to be an active member in the period beginning with 1st April and
ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and subsequently died within that same
period,

the pension the member would have been entitled to receive as retirement
pension at the date of death is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment
that would have been due at the next revaluation date.

.

7.2

In regulation 52 (survivor benefits: partners of pensioner members)—

7.2.a

after paragraph (4), insert—

7.2.a.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4), if the member—

7.2.a.4A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

7.2.a.4A.b

ceased to be an active member in the period beginning with 1st April and
ending 5th April in a Scheme year and subsequently died within that same
period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

;

7.2.b

in paragraph (5)—

7.2.b.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ; and

7.2.b.ii

after “was opened,” in the second place that it occurs, insert  “and takes
effect from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in which
the member became a pensioner member,” ;

7.2.c

for paragraph (6), substitute—

7.2.c.6

Where—

7.2.c.6.a

paragraph (5) applies, the balance calculated under paragraph (3) is the
opening balance of the survivor member’s pension account for the following
Scheme year, and the revaluation adjustment is applied to the balance in
accordance with paragraph (5);

7.2.c.6.b

paragraph (5) does not apply, the balance under paragraph (3) is the opening
balance of the survivor member’s pension account for the following Scheme
year,

and, thereafter, the balance in the survivor member’s pension account is
adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase
would apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act
applied.

7.2.c.6A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

7.3

In regulation 53 (survivor benefits: children of pensioner members)—

7.3.a

in paragraph (4)—

7.3.a.i

for “at the beginning of” substitute  “on the revaluation date in” ; and

7.3.a.ii

after “was opened,” in the second place it occurs, insert  “and takes effect
from the start of the Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the
member became a pensioner member,” ;

7.3.b

for paragraph (5), substitute—

7.3.b.5

Where—

7.3.b.5.a

paragraph (4) applies, the balance calculated under regulation 54(2) (survivor
benefits: children of pensioner member where pension is payable to partner of
pensioner member) or 55(2) (survivor benefits: children of pensioner member
where no pension is payable to partner of pensioner member) is the opening
balance of the survivor member’s pension account for the following Scheme
year, and the revaluation adjustment is applied to the balance in accordance
with paragraph (4);

7.3.b.5.b

paragraph (4) does not apply, the balance under paragraph (54)(2) or 55(2), as
the case may be, is the opening balance of the survivor member’s pension
account for the following Scheme year,

and, thereafter, the balance in the survivor member’s pension account is
adjusted each year by the index rate adjustment from the date that an increase
would apply if that balance were a pension in payment to which the 1971 Act
applied.

7.3.b.5A

Where an index rate adjustment is due to be made on a revaluation date, any
such adjustment must be made immediately after the revaluation adjustment is
made.

.

7.4

In regulation 54 (survivor benefits: children of pensioner members where
pension is payable to partner of pensioner member)—

7.4.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

7.4.a.3A

For the purposes of paragraph (3), if the member—

7.4.a.3A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

7.4.a.3A.b

ceased to be an active member in the period beginning with 1st April and
ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and subsequently died within that same
period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

;

7.4.b

after paragraph (4) insert—

7.4.b.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4), if the member—

7.4.b.4A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

7.4.b.4A.b

ceased to be an active member in the period beginning with 1st April and
ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and subsequently died within that same
period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

.

7.5

In regulation 55 (survivor benefits: children of pensioner members where no
pension is payable to partner of pensioner member)—

7.5.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

7.5.a.3A

For the purposes of paragraph (3), if the member—

7.5.a.3A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

7.5.a.3A.b

ceased to be an active member in the period beginning with 1st April and
ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and subsequently died within that same
period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

;

7.5.b

after paragraph (4) insert—

7.5.b.4A

For the purposes of paragraph (4), if the member—

7.5.b.4A.a

died in the period beginning with 1st April and ending with 5th April in the
Scheme year following the Scheme year in which the member ceased to be an
active member; or

7.5.b.4A.b

ceased to be an active member in the period beginning with 1st April and
ending with 5th April in a Scheme year and subsequently died within that same
period,

the pension is deemed to include the revaluation adjustment that would have
been due at the next revaluation date.

.

### Amendments to definitions

8

In Schedule 1 (interpretation)—

8.a

for the definition of “revaluation adjustment” , substitute—

“ revaluation adjustment ” means— in the case of a balance transferred under a
Club Transfer, the adjustment that would have applied to that balance if it
had not been transferred and which is applied to the balance on the same day
as the percentage increase or decrease referred to in paragraph (b); and in
any other case the percentage specified as the change in prices in relation to
the Scheme set out in the relevant Treasury Order made under section 9(2) of
the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 in relation to the
previous Scheme year which applied to a sum in a pension account;

; and

8.b

after the definition of “revaluation adjustment” insert—

“ revaluation date ” means 6th April;

.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 16th May
2023 Anthony Carleton A senior officer of the Department for Communities The
Department of Finance consents to these Regulations Sealed with the Official
Seal of the Department of Finance on 17th May 2023 Patrick Neeson A senior
officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 (“ the
2014 Regulations ”) established the Local Government Pension Scheme (“ the
Scheme ”) as a career average revalued earnings scheme in accordance with
section 8(2)(a) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (“
the Act ”).

According to section 8(4) of the Act, a person’s pensionable earnings under a
career average revalued earnings scheme must be revalued each year until the
person leaves pensionable service, based upon the index rate adjustment for
the relevant period specified in an Order made by the Department of Finance
under section 9(2) of the Act.

Section 3(3)(b) of the Act provides that scheme regulations may make
retrospective provision. The regulations listed in regulation 1(2) are
retrospective. The retrospective provisions contained in these Regulations do
not appear to the Department to have significant adverse effects in relation
to the pension payable to or in respect of members of the scheme, or members
of previous schemes. Accordingly, the procedures set out in section 23 of the
Act are not applicable in relation to these Regulations.

These Regulations amend the provisions of the 2014 Regulations in relation to
the process of making revaluation adjustments which currently require the
revaluation adjustment to be made at the beginning of the Scheme year, meaning
that on 1 April each year, members’ pensions are revalued to take account of
the impact of inflation over the previous scheme year (1 April to 31 March).
Currently, tax liabilities may arise because the timing of the Scheme
revaluation process on 1 April is not aligned with HMRC’s process for
assessing the annual allowance tax charge under the Finance Act 2004.

The overall effect of the changes made by these Regulations to the 2014
Regulations is that the revaluation adjustment is made on 6 April each year,
so that the Scheme revaluation is brought into alignment with the HMRC process
for assessing the annual allowance tax charge and then applied to the member’s
account and accounted for when calculating the end of year balance on 31
March. These Regulations will have no effect on the amount of Scheme benefits
to which members are entitled.

Regulation 3 amends regulations 25, 26, 27 and regulation 29 of the 2014
Regulations in relation to active members and members who change status within
a Scheme year by becoming deferred members of the Scheme, or by taking full or
flexible retirement.

The amendments specify that the revaluation adjustment made to the member’s
pension account must take place on the ‘revaluation date’ (defined as being 6
April). This change means that the inflation figure used for the revaluation
adjustment in the tax year commencing 6th April is the same as the inflation
figure used for any tax calculation specified by HMRC for annual allowance
purposes, under the Finance Act 2004.

Regulation 3 also makes consequential changes to the 2014 Regulations, to
ensure that the correct figures are used and the index rate adjustment in
accordance with the Pensions (Increase) Act 1971 is correctly applied.

Regulation 4 amends regulations 41 and 43 to 45 of the 2014 Regulations in
relation to survivor benefits for the partners and children of active members
and makes consequential changes to reflect the fact that the revaluation
adjustment is now to take place at the new ‘revaluation date’. The purpose of
these changes is to ensure that, notwithstanding the change in the revaluation
date, there is no change to the amount of Scheme benefits to which survivors
are entitled.

Regulation 5 amends regulation 46 of the 2014 Regulations in relation to death
grants relating to deceased deferred members and pension credit members. The
purpose of these changes is to ensure that, notwithstanding the change in the
revaluation date, there is no change to the amount of Scheme benefits to which
survivors are entitled. The changes ensure that for deferred members, where
the person died within the period 1 to 5 April within a Scheme year (ahead of
the revaluation date), the death grant reflects the correct pension
entitlement, factoring in the relevant revaluation adjustment.

Regulation 6 amends regulations 47, 48, 49 and 50 of the 2014 Regulations in
relation to survivor benefits for partners and children of deceased deferred
members and similarly to regulation 4, makes consequential changes to reflect
the fact that the revaluation adjustment is now to take place at the new
‘revaluation date’. The purpose of these changes is to ensure that,
notwithstanding the change in the revaluation date, there is no change to the
amount of Scheme benefits to which survivors are entitled.

Regulation 7 amends regulation 51 of the 2014 Regulations in relation to death
grants relating to deceased pensioner members, and regulations 52, 53, 54 and
55 of the 2014 regulations relating to survivor benefits in relation to such a
member. The changes to regulation 51 of the 2014 Regulations ensure that where
the pensioner member died within the period 1 to 5 April within a Scheme year
(ahead of the revaluation date), any death grant payable reflects the correct
pension entitlement, factoring in the relevant revaluation adjustment. The
purpose of these changes is to ensure that, notwithstanding the change in the
revaluation date, there is no change to the amount of Scheme benefits to which
survivors are entitled.

Regulation 8 substitutes the definition of “revaluation adjustment” at
Schedule 1 of the 2014 Regulations and inserts a new definition of
“revaluation date”, so that the revaluation date is fixed as 6th April which
aligns with the start of the tax year, rather than taking place at the end of
a tax year.

