Title: The Register of Overseas Entities (Penalties and Northern Ireland Dispositions) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-09-11
Description: These Regulations make provision relating to the register of overseas entities (“the register”) kept by the registrar of companies for England and Wales (“the registrar”) in accordance with Part 1 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 (c. 10). The provisions relate to financial penalties, appeals, and enforcement.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/696

## The Register of Overseas Entities (Penalties and Northern Ireland Dispositions) Regulations 2023

    Companies       Land Registration, Northern Ireland

  Made   22nd June 2023

  Coming into force   23rd June 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 33(4), 39(1) and (2), 67(2) and (3) of the
Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 .       The Secretary
of State has consulted the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland, in
accordance with section 33(6) of the Economic Crime (Transparency and
Enforcement) Act 2022.           In accordance with sections 33(7), 39(7) and
67(4) of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022, a draft
of these Regulations has been laid before Parliament and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Register of Overseas Entities (Penalties
and Northern Ireland Dispositions) Regulations 2023 and come into force on
23rd June 2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland,
except for Part 5 which extends to Northern Ireland only.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the ECTEA ” means the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement)
Act 2022;           “ conduct ” means an act or omission;           “
financial penalty ” means a requirement to pay to the registrar a penalty, of
an amount determined by the registrar in accordance with regulation 7, which
may be—         a fixed amount (“a fixed penalty”);           an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate (“a daily rate penalty”); or
a combination of a fixed penalty and a daily rate penalty.

### Financial Penalties

#### The registrar’s powers

3

3.1

Subject to paragraph (2), regulation 7 and following the process in
regulations 4 and 5, the registrar  may impose a financial penalty on a person
if satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that the person has engaged in conduct
amounting to an offence under Part 1 of the ECTEA.

3.2

No financial penalty may be imposed on a person in respect of conduct
amounting to an offence if—

3.2.a

proceedings have been brought against the person for that offence in respect
of that conduct and the proceedings are ongoing; or

3.2.b

the person has been convicted of that offence in respect of that conduct.

3.3

No proceedings may be brought or continued against a person in respect of
conduct amounting to an offence if the person has been given a financial
penalty under these Regulations in respect of that conduct.

#### Warning and penalty notices

4

4.1

If the registrar suspects that a person has engaged in conduct amounting to an
offence under Part 1 of the ECTEA, the registrar may issue a warning notice in
writing to that person.

4.2

The warning notice referred to in paragraph (1) above must contain—

4.2.a

the grounds for suspecting that an offence has been committed;

4.2.b

the period within which the person may make written representations to the
registrar about their conduct (which must be at least 28 days beginning on the
day after the date of the warning notice) and how such representations may be
delivered; and

4.2.c

a warning that at the end of the period referred to in sub-paragraph (b)
above, the registrar may impose a financial penalty.

5

5.1

After the end of the period stated in the warning notice, the registrar, if
satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the person has engaged in the conduct
referred to in the warning notice and that that conduct amounts to an offence
under Part 1 of the ECTEA, may issue a penalty notice in writing to the person
who was issued the warning notice.

5.2

The penalty notice referred to in paragraph (1) above must   set out —

5.2.a

the grounds for issuing the financial penalty;

5.2.b

whether the financial penalty is a fixed penalty, a daily rate penalty or a
combination of both and how it is calculated;

5.2.c

in the case of a fixed penalty, the amount of the penalty;

5.2.d

in the case of a daily rate penalty, the amount of the daily rate, the day on
which the amount first   started   to accumulate and the day on which, or the
circumstances in which, it   ceased   to accumulate;

5.2.e

how payment may be made;

5.2.f

the period within which payment is to be made (which period must not end
sooner than  the end of the period of   28 days beginning on the date of the
penalty notice  is given );

5.2.g

rights of appeal; and

5.2.h

the consequences of non-payment.

#### Review, variation and revocation of financial penalties

6

6.1

Subject to regulations 7(1) and (2), the registrar may vary or revoke the
penalty notice as the registrar considers appropriate.

6.2

If a financial penalty is revoked under these Regulations, the registrar must,
as soon as practicable, give a notice in writing to the person upon whom the
financial penalty was imposed.

6.3

If a financial penalty, or the period within which a financial penalty is to
be paid, is varied under this regulation, the registrar must, as soon as
practicable, issue a new penalty notice which, in addition to the information
referred to in regulation 5(2), must state the variation and the reasons for
the variation.

#### Penalties

7

7.1

A financial penalty must not exceed the maximum fine that could be imposed by
a court for the same offence under criminal proceedings in the jurisdiction in
which the offence was committed.

7.2

The registrar may not impose a daily rate penalty unless the person’s conduct
constitutes an offence in respect of which a daily default fine may be imposed
in the jurisdiction in which the offence was committed.

7.3

In relation to conduct for which the fine for the relevant offence in the
jurisdiction in which the offence was committed does not include a daily
default fine, the registrar may impose more than one fixed penalty in relation
to that conduct where there is a continuing contravention.

7.4

For the purposes of a daily rate penalty—

7.4.a

the first day from which the amount may start to accumulate is the day after
the day the registrar determines to be the day on which the person first
engaged in the conduct amounting to a relevant offence;

7.4.b

unless the registrar determines an earlier date, the daily rate ceases to
accumulate at the beginning of the earliest of—

7.4.b.i

the day on which the requirement to comply to which the offence relates is
satisfied,

7.4.b.ii

the day on which that requirement no longer applies.

7.5

Interest accrues on  the amount of   a financial penalty which has not been
paid within the period stated in the penalty notice at such rate as the
registrar may direct or, if no such direction is given, the rate for the time
being specified in section 17 of the Judgments Act 1838 .

### Penalty Appeals

8

8.1

Subject to paragraph (3), a person who has received a penalty notice under
regulations 5 or 6(3) may appeal the financial penalty to the High Court or,
in Scotland, the Court of Session on the grounds mentioned in paragraph (2).

8.2

The grounds referred to in paragraph (1) are that the decision to impose a
financial penalty or the level or type of financial penalty—

8.2.a

is unlawful;

8.2.b

is irrational or unreasonable; or

8.2.c

has been made on the basis of a procedural impropriety or otherwise
contravenes the rules of natural justice.

8.3

No appeal may be brought unless the permission of the court has been obtained.

8.4

No application for such permission may be made after 28 days beginning on the
day after the date of the penalty notice  is given   unless the court is
satisfied that there was good reason for the failure of the applicant to seek
permission before the end of that period.

8.5

An applicant who seeks permission to appeal must serve written notice of the
application on the registrar within 7 days beginning with the date on which
the application for permission was issued.

8.6

The court determining an appeal may—

8.6.a

dismiss the appeal;

8.6.b

vary the amount  of   the financial penalty;

8.6.c

change the nature of the financial penalty between a fixed penalty, a daily
rate penalty or a combination of a fixed penalty and a daily rate penalty; or

8.6.d

quash the financial penalty.

### Penalty Enforcement

#### Recovering penalties

9

9.1

The registrar may recover any of  the amount of   the financial penalty and
any interest that has not been paid if—

9.1.a

no appeal relating to the financial penalty has been brought under regulation
8 during the period within which such an appeal may be brought; or

9.1.b

an appeal has been determined or withdrawn.

9.2

In England and Wales, and in Northern Ireland,  the amount of   the financial
penalty is recoverable as if it were payable under an order of the High Court.

9.3

In Scotland, the financial penalty may be enforced in the same manner as an
extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution issued by
the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.

9.4

Where action is taken under this regulation for the recovery of a sum payable
under a penalty notice, the financial penalty is—

9.4.a

in relation to England and Wales, to be treated for the purposes of section 98
of the Courts Act 2003  as if it were a judgment entered in the High Court,
and

9.4.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, to be treated for the purposes of article 116
of the Judgments Enforcement (Northern Ireland) Order 1981  as if it were a
judgment in respect of which an application has been accepted under article 22
or 23(1) of that Order.

### Northern Ireland Dispositions

#### Amendment of the Land Registration Act (Northern Ireland) 1970

10

10.1

Schedule 8A to the Land Registration Act (Northern Ireland) 1970  is amended
as follows.

10.2

After paragraph 4 (Registrable dispositions by overseas entity entitled to be
registered (but not registered)), insert—

########## Consent to registration of dispositions that cannot otherwise be registered

10.2.4A

10.2.4A.1

The Secretary of State may consent to the registration of a disposition that
would otherwise be prohibited by an inhibition entered under paragraph 3, or
by paragraph 4, if satisfied—

10.2.4A.1.a

that at the time of the disposition the person to whom it was made did not
know, and could not reasonably have been expected to know, of the prohibition,
and

10.2.4A.1.b

that in all the circumstances it would be unjust for the disposition not to be
registered.

10.2.4A.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in connection with
applications for consent, and the giving of consent, under sub-paragraph (1).

10.2.4A.3

The regulations may, for example, make provision about—

10.2.4A.3.a

who may apply;

10.2.4A.3.b

evidence;

10.2.4A.3.c

time limits.

10.2.4A.4

Regulations made under sub-paragraph (2) are to be made by statutory
instrument within the meaning given by section 1 of the Statutory Instruments
Act 1946  subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

.

10.3

In paragraph 3(5) —

10.3.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (d), and

10.3.b

after paragraph (d) insert—

10.3.b.da

the Secretary of State gives consent under paragraph 4A to the registration of
the disposition, or

.

10.4

In paragraph 4(3) —

10.4.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (d), and

10.4.b

after paragraph (d) insert—

10.4.b.da

the Secretary of State gives consent under paragraph 4A to the registration of
the disposition, or

.

10.5

In paragraph 5(1), after “An overseas entity must not make a registrable
disposition of a qualifying estate if” insert  “, disregarding the possibility
of consent under paragraph 4A,” .

      Kevin Hollinrake   Minister for Enterprise, Markets and Small Business
Department for Business and Trade     22nd June 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision relating to the register of overseas
entities (“ the register ”) kept by the registrar of companies for England and
Wales (“ the registrar ”) in accordance with Part 1 of the Economic Crime
(Transparency and Enforcement) Act  2022 (c. 10) . The provisions relate to
financial penalties, appeals, and enforcement.

  The Regulations also amend the Land Registration Act (Northern Ireland)
1970, to provide for the registration of otherwise unregistrable dispositions
in Northern Ireland.

  Part 2 confers power on the registrar to impose a financial penalty on a
person if satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the person has engaged in
conduct amounting to an offence under Part 1 of that Act.

  Regulations 4 and 5 describe the process by which the registrar may issue
warning notices and penalty notices. They also set out when the registrar may
issue either type of notice, the required contents and information about
relevant time periods regulation 6 allows the registrar to vary or revoke the
penalty notice as the registrar considers appropriate subject to certain
conditions and regulation 7. Regulation 7 provides rules for imposing and
calculating penalties under a penalty notice, and states that amounts
recovered by the registrar under these Regulations are to be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

  Part 3 makes provision for the route of appeal against a financial penalty
imposed under regulations 5 or 6(3) and sets out the substantive grounds of
appeal, procedural rules, and the court’s powers in relation to the appeal.

  Part 4 makes provision for the enforcement of the financial penalties
imposed.

  Regulation 9 allows the registrar to recover the financial penalty (with any
accrued interest) after the expiry of the period stated in the penalty notice,
if no appeal has been brought, or, if an appeal has been determined or
withdrawn. It also describes how the financial penalty is treated for recovery
purposes in England and Wales, Northern Ireland, and Scotland.

  Part 5 amends Schedule 8A to the Land Registration Act (Northern Ireland)
1970 . Schedule 8A was inserted by Schedule 5 to the Economic Crime
(Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022  and makes provision about the
ownership of registered land by overseas entities and the registrable
dispositions they make.

  Regulation 10(2) inserts new paragraph 4A into Schedule 8A to the Land
Registration Act (Northern Ireland) 1970.

  Sub-paragraph (1) of new paragraph 4A provides that the Secretary of State
may consent to the registration of a disposition that would otherwise be
incapable of registration because it would be prohibited by an inhibition
entered under paragraph 3 or by paragraph 4 of Schedule 8A. The Secretary of
State must be satisfied that, at the time of the disposition, the person to
whom it was made did not know, and could not reasonably have been expected to
know, that the disposition could not be registered. The Secretary of State
must also be satisfied that in all the circumstances it would be unjust for
the disposition not to be registered.

  Sub-paragraph (2) of new paragraph 4A provides that the Secretary of State
may make regulations in connection with applications for consent under
paragraph 4A(1) and these regulations may, for example, set out who may apply,
the evidence required to be produced, and time limits (paragraph 4A(3)). Such
regulations are subject to the negative resolution procedure (paragraph
4A(4)).

  Paragraphs (3) and (4) of regulation 10 introduce a new exception to the
prohibition on registration of certain dispositions under paragraphs 3 and 4
of Schedule 8A, where the Secretary of State gives consent to registration of
the disposition under new paragraph 4A.

  Regulation 10(5) amends paragraph 5(1) of Schedule 8A to make clear that the
possibility of obtaining consent under paragraph 4A is to be disregarded in
determining whether an overseas entity breaches the prohibition on making a
registrable disposition of a qualifying estate which cannot be registered
under paragraphs 3 or 4 of Schedule 8A.

