Title: The Loans for Mortgage Interest (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-05-22
Description: These Regulations amend the Loans for Mortgage Interest Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2017 (“the 2017 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/31

## The Loans for Mortgage Interest (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    This Statutory Rule has been printed to correct an error in  S.R. 2018 No.
37  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of that
Statutory Rule.

    Social Security

  Made   8th March 2023

  Coming into operation   3rd April 2023

      The Department for Communities , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 13(1), (2) and (3) and 14(1),
(3)(b) and (e) to the Welfare Reform and Work (Northern Ireland) Order 2016 .
The powers are exercisable by the Department for Communities by virtue of
Article 2 to the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Cessation of
Transitory Provision) Order 2020 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Loans for Mortgage Interest (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and come into operation on 3rd April 2023.

### Amendment of the Loans for Mortgage Interest Regulations

2

2.1

The Loans for Mortgage Interest Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2017  are
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

2.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), in sub-paragraph (a) of the definition of
“qualifying period”, for “9” substitute  “3” .

2.3

In regulation 3 (the offer of loan payments)—

2.3.a

in paragraph (1) , omit “, unless paragraph (4) applies”;

2.3.b

omit paragraph (4).

2.4

In regulation 8 (period covered by loan payments)—

2.4.a

in paragraph (1)—

2.4.a.i

in sub-paragraph (b), after “in the case of a UC claimant”, insert  “, except
where sub-paragraph (ba) or (bb) applies,” ;

2.4.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (b), insert—

2.4.a.ii.ba

in the case of a couple where one member is an SPC claimant receiving loan
payments, the first day of entitlement to universal credit as a couple;

2.4.a.ii.bb

in the case of a couple where one member was formerly an SPC claimant
receiving loan payments, the first day of entitlement to universal credit as a
couple, if the first day of that entitlement is within the period of one month
beginning with the day on which the entitlement to state pension credit ended;

;

2.4.a.iii

in sub-paragraph (c), for “SPC claimant”, substitute  “SPC claimant (who is
not in a couple)” ;

2.4.b

in paragraph (2) , for “paragraph (1)(a) to (c) and (e)”, substitute  “sub-
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of paragraph (1)” .

2.4.c

after paragraph (2), insert—

2.4.c.3

In this regulation, “ couple ” means a couple entitled to universal credit as
joint claimants under regulation 3(1)(a) of the UC Regulations .

.

2.5

In regulation 9 (duration of loan payments)—

2.5.a

in paragraph (3), omit sub-paragraph (e);

2.5.b

for paragraph (7) , substitute—

2.5.b.7

If a legacy benefit claimant ceases to be entitled to, or treated as entitled
to, a legacy benefit (“the old entitlement”) but becomes entitled, or treated
as entitled, again to the benefit ( “the new entitlement” ) within the period
of 52 weeks beginning with the day on which the claimant ceased to be
entitled, or treated as entitled, to the old entitlement, and the claimant
wishes to receive loan payments on the basis of the new entitlement, there is
no requirement for the claimant to serve a new qualifying period.

2.5.b.8

If a UC claimant ceases to be entitled to universal credit (“the old
entitlement”) but becomes entitled again to universal credit ( “the new
entitlement” ) within the period of 6 months beginning with the day on which
the claimant ceased to be entitled to the old entitlement, and the claimant
wishes to receive loan payments on the basis of the new entitlement, there is
no requirement for the claimant to serve a new qualifying period.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 8th
March 2023       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Loans for Mortgage Interest Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2017 (“ the 2017 Regulations ”).

  Regulation 2(2) reduces the length of the qualifying period for universal
credit claimants from 9 consecutive assessment periods to 3 consecutive
assessment periods.

  Regulation 2(3) and 2(5)(a) remove the condition that a universal credit
claimant must not have any earnings in order to be eligible to receive loan
payments.

  Regulation 2(4) provides that a couple is not required to re-serve the
qualifying period where one member of the couple is still a state pension
credit claimant receiving loan payments when the joint entitlement to
universal credit begins, and also where one member of the couple was formerly
a state pension credit claimant receiving loan payments, provided their
entitlement to universal credit begins within one month of the end of the
entitlement to state pension credit. The former is included because
termination of the state pension credit entitlement can take place after the
joint entitlement to universal credit begins. Regulation 2(4) also operates to
ensure that the qualifying period of 3 consecutive assessment periods applies
for all other couples which do not fall within the two circumstances
specified. Regulation 2(4)(c) inserts a definition of a couple for the
purposes of regulation 8 of the 2017 Regulations.

  Regulation 2(5)(b) inserts a new paragraph (8) into regulation 9 of the 2017
Regulations providing that, for claimants who return to universal credit
within 6 months, and wish to start receiving loan payments, there is no
requirement to serve a new qualifying period.

  Regulation 2(5)(b) also substitutes a revised paragraph (7) of regulation 9
for the existing paragraph (7) with a view to ensuring that the wording of
paragraph (7) is consistent with the wording of the new paragraph (8) of
regulation 9.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 8) , are not subject
to requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

