Title: The Private Crossings (Signs and Barriers) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-13
Description: Section 52 of the Transport and Works Act 1992 allows the operator of a railway or tramway that is crossed by a private road or private path to cause or permit the placement near the crossing of crossing signs or barriers that are prescribed in regulations made by the Secretary of State, or as otherwise authorised by the Secretary of State.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1112

##  The Private Crossings (Signs and Barriers) Regulations 2023  

    RAILWAYS

  Made   23rd October 2023

  Laid before Parliament   26th October 2023

  Coming into force   18th November 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 52(1)(a), (3) and (5) of the Transport and Works Act 1992
.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Private Crossings (Signs and Barriers)
Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 18th November 2023.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2016 Regulations ” means the Traffic Signs Regulations and General
Directions 2016 ;           “ crossing ” means a place where a railway or
tramway is crossed by a relevant road;           “ crossing operator ” means
the operator of a railway or tramway that is crossed in any place by a
relevant road;           “ relevant road ” means—         a private road;
a private path; or           both a private road and a private path;
“ retroreflecting material ” means material which reflects a ray of light back
towards the source of that light;           “ signaller ” means a person
employed by a crossing operator who operates signals, and where applicable the
points, on a railway or tramway or otherwise controls the movement of trains
or trams.

### Crossing signs to be of the size, colour and type described

3

3.1

Subject to regulations 5, 6 and 9, where a crossing operator causes or permits
a crossing sign to be placed on or near a relevant road at or near a crossing,
the crossing sign must be of the size, colour and type shown and described in—

3.1.a

a diagram in Schedule 1; or

3.1.b

any of the following diagrams set out in the signs tables in the following
Schedules to the 2016 Regulations—

3.1.b.i

Schedule 2—

3.1.b.i.aa

Part 2: diagrams 770 (Item 51), 771 (Item 52), 772 (Item 53), 779 (Item 54)
and 782 (Item 55),

3.1.b.i.bb

Part 6: diagrams 774 (Item 4) and 781 (Item 5);

3.1.b.ii

Schedule 9—

3.1.b.ii.aa

Part 2: diagrams 602 (Item 2), 778 (Item 4) and 778.1 (Item 5),

3.1.b.ii.bb

Part 4: diagram 784.1 (Item 4),

3.1.b.ii.cc

Part 6: diagrams 1002.1 (Item 1), 1022 (Item 2), 1003A (Item 3), 1023A (Item
4), 1013.1 (Item 23) and 1045 (Item 26);

3.1.b.iii

Schedule 11—

3.1.b.iii.aa

Part 2: diagrams 963.3 (Item 43), 775 (Item 67), 783 (Item 68), 785.1 (Item
69), 786 (Item 70), 787 (Item 71) and 788 (Item 72),

3.1.b.iii.bb

Part 4: diagrams 1004 (Item 2), 1012.1 (Item 11) and 1026 (Item 16);

3.1.b.iv

Schedule 14—

3.1.b.iv.aa

Part 2: diagrams 3014 (Item 5), 773 (Item 6), 776 and 777 (Item 8), 1001 (Item
46), 790 (Item 67) and 1003.2 (Item 68).

3.2

Where, in accordance with these Regulations, a crossing operator causes or
permits the placement of a crossing sign referred to in paragraph (1)(b), the
provisions of the 2016 Regulations relating to the size, illumination and
significance of, and the requirements conveyed by, that sign by virtue of
those Regulations apply to that crossing sign as if the relevant road
concerned were a road as defined in section 142 of the Road Traffic Regulation
Act 1984 .

### Colours of backs of crossing signs

4

The back of a crossing sign shown in a diagram in Schedule 1 and any pole or
other structure provided for mounting the crossing sign shall be black or grey
in colour.

### Dimensions

5

5.1

A variation in a dimension specified in Schedule 1 is permitted by these
Regulations if the variation does not exceed 5% more or 5% less than the
dimension specified.

5.2

In Schedule 1 the dimensions of the crossing signs are expressed in
millimetres.

### Permitted variants

6

6.1

The crossing signs shown in diagrams 102, 106, 157, 160, 161, 162 and 164 in
Schedule 1 may be varied as set out in Schedule 1 where the circumstances so
require.

6.2

A crossing sign shown in diagrams 104 and 118 in Schedule 1 may be varied to
show a different penalty where the maximum penalty for failing to comply with
the requirement on the crossing sign has changed.

6.3

In relation to a crossing sign shown in diagrams 106 (variant B), 120, 121,
140, and 164 (variants B, C and D) in Schedule 1, the telephone number may be
changed if the number of the signaller changes.

### Illumination of crossing signs

7

7.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the front of a crossing sign shown in the diagrams
in Schedule 1 must be covered in retroreflecting material.

7.2

Retroreflecting material must not be applied to—

7.2.a

any part of a crossing sign, including words, coloured black;

7.2.b

the red and green lights prescribed in regulation 8 in a crossing sign shown
in a diagram in Part 4 of Schedule 1; and

7.2.c

a crossing sign at a crossing which motor vehicles do not use.

### Miniature stop lights

8

8.1

The crossing signs shown in diagrams 158, 159, 160 and 161 in Part 4 of
Schedule 1 must contain red and green lights which—

8.1.a

are internally illuminated by a steady light so that—

8.1.a.i

when one light is lit, the other is not;

8.1.a.ii

the green light is and remains lit so long as no railway or tramway vehicle is
approaching the vicinity of the crossing from either direction; and

8.1.a.iii

the red light is and remains lit if the green light is not lit; or

8.1.b

are activated either by the user pushing a button, or by a motion sensor so
that—

8.1.b.i

when one light is lit, the other is not;

8.1.b.ii

the green light is only activated so long as no railway or tramway vehicle is
approaching the vicinity of the crossing from either direction; and

8.1.b.iii

the red light is and remains activated until the green light is lit.

8.2

The lenses of the lights must be—

8.2.a

circular and not less than 60 millimetres in diameter; or

8.2.b

rectangular with the short side measuring a minimum of 60 millimetres;

and the distance between the edges of the lenses of the lights must be not
less than 40 millimetres.

8.3

The information, warnings, requirements and prohibitions conveyed by the
lights described in paragraphs (1) and (2) are—

8.3.a

the red light when lit warns the user of a crossing that a railway or tramway
vehicle is approaching the vicinity of that crossing and users are prohibited
from using the crossing;

8.3.b

the green light when lit informs the user of a crossing that no railway or
tramway vehicle is approaching the vicinity of that crossing and users may use
the crossing;

8.3.c

if neither light is lit, users must either telephone the signaller, or cross
the railway or tramway with caution after following the instructions on any
crossing sign at or near the crossing.

### Crossing signs relating to telephones

9

9.1

The crossing signs shown in a diagram in Schedule 1 which incorporates a
telephone symbol highlighted in yellow is permitted to be placed only where
there is a fixed telephone, which connects directly to the signaller, provided
at each side of the crossing.

9.2

The crossing signs shown in diagrams in Schedule 1 which have space designated
on them for a telephone number must show the telephone number to contact the
signaller. Such crossing signs are only permitted to be placed under these
Regulations where there are no fixed telephones at the crossing.

### Gates or barriers to be of the character described in Schedule 2 or Schedule 3

10

Where a crossing operator causes or permits the placement of a barrier on a
relevant road near a crossing, the barrier must, in the case of a gate, be of
the character described in Schedule 2, or in the case of any other barrier be
of the character described in Schedule 3.

### Revocation

11

The Private Crossings (Signs and Barriers) Regulations 1996  are revoked.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport       Huw
Merriman   Minister of State   Department for Transport     23rd October 2023

  Crossing signs

Regulation 3

##### Warning signs

    Diagram 101

    Diagram 102: Permitted variants A or B as circumstances require.

    Diagram 103

    Diagram 104

    Diagram 105

    Diagram 106 Permitted variants A or B: On sign B, the telephone number for
the signaller must be provided at crossings with no fixed telephones.

##### Summary signs and stop sign

    Diagram 107

    Diagram 108

    Diagram 109

    Diagram 110

##### Instruction signs

    Diagram 111

    Diagram 112

    Diagram 113

    Diagram 114

    Diagram 115

    Diagram 116

    Diagram 117

    Diagram 118

    Diagram 119

    Diagram 120

    Diagram 121

    Diagram 122

    Diagram 123

    Diagram 124

    Diagram 125

    Diagram 126

    Diagram 127

    Diagram 128

    Diagram 129

    Diagram 130

    Diagram 131

    Diagram 132

    Diagram 133

    Diagram 134

    Diagram 135

    Diagram 136

    Diagram 137

    Diagram 138

    Diagram 139

    Diagram 140

    Diagram 141

    Diagram 142

    Diagram 143

    Diagram 144

    Diagram 145

    Diagram 146

    Diagram 147

    Diagram 148

    Diagram 149

    Diagram 150

    Diagram 151

    Diagram 152

    Diagram 153

    Diagram 154

    Diagram 155

    Diagram 156

    Diagram 157:Permitted variants A or B as the circumstances require

##### Miniature stop light instructions and units

    Diagram 158

    Diagram 159

    Diagram 160: Permitted variants A, B or C as circumstances require

    Diagram 161: Permitted variants A, B, C or D as circumstances require

##### Information signs

    Diagram 162: Permitted variant: different times may be substituted as
circumstances require

    Diagram 163

    Diagram 164: Permitted variant: the appropriate variant (A, B, C, or D)
may be placed according to the circumstances at the crossing.

##### Reminder signs

    Diagram 165

    Diagram 166

  Gates

Regulation 10

1

A gate must, by itself or with another gate on the same side of the railway or
tramway, be long enough to extend across the full width of the relevant road.

2

Where gates are placed, they must pivot to open away from the railway or
tramway.

3

When a gate is closed, the top surface of the gate must be a minimum of 1350
millimetres above the road surface at the centre of the relevant road.

4

The underclearance between each gate and the road must not exceed 150
millimetres. If the relevant road is an unmetalled track, the underclearance
between the gate and the road may be greater than 150 millimetres only if
necessary to avoid the gate grounding during opening and closing.

5

Where a gate is installed otherwise than for the sole use of pedestrians, it
must have a way to secure it in the open and in the closed positions.

6

A gate must be as light in weight as possible but nevertheless strong enough
to withstand distortion or breakage caused by wind pressure or by a farm
animal.

  Barriers other than gates

Regulation 10

1

1.1

Where a barrier, other than a gate, is placed, it must when lowered across the
relevant road be long enough to extend either—

1.1.a

across the full width of the relevant road, or

1.1.b

subject to paragraph (2), from the left-hand side of the relevant road (as
seen from a vehicle approaching the crossing) to a point as close as possible
to the centre of the relevant road.

1.2

In a case falling within paragraph (1)(b), there must be a minimum distance of
3 metres from the tip or, as the case may be, vertical edge of the barrier to
the other side of the relevant road to allow clear passage.

2

When a barrier is lowered its top surface must be a minimum height of 900
millimetres above the road surface at the centre of the relevant road.

3

The underclearance between the barrier when lowered and the road surface must
not exceed 1000 millimetres.

4

A barrier must have means to raise it, and hold it in the raised position. It
must also have means to release the hold and allow the barrier to return to a
horizontal position.

5

A barrier may be linked with another barrier at the crossing to allow all the
barriers to be raised or lowered simultaneously from either side of the
crossing.

6

The pivot post of a barrier must be covered to avoid injury to persons using
it.

7

A barrier must have on both front and rear faces alternate red and white bands
each approximately 600 millimetres wide (measured horizontally across the face
of the barrier) and to the full depth of the barrier measured vertically on
the full face of the barrier when horizontal. A strip of retroreflecting
material not less than 50 millimetres deep, in a colour matching that of the
bands must be attached along the full width of each band.

8

A barrier may be fitted with a skirt which fills the space between the barrier
and the road surface. Any skirt must be light in colour.

9

Electric lights may be fitted to a barrier and each light must show a red
light, when illuminated, in each direction along the relevant road.

10

A barrier, with or without a skirt if fitted, must be as lightweight as
possible but nevertheless—

10.a

a barrier must be strong enough to withstand distortion or breakage, and

10.b

a skirt fitted to a barrier must be capable of withstanding damage

caused by wind pressure or by a farm animal.

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Section 52 of the Transport and Works Act 1992 allows the operator of a
railway or tramway that is crossed by a private road or private path to cause
or permit the placement near the crossing of crossing signs or barriers that
are prescribed in regulations made by the Secretary of State, or as otherwise
authorised by the Secretary of State.

  These Regulations prescribe crossing signs and barriers which may be placed
on or near a private road or private path at or near the crossing as provided
for in that section.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument because
no, or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is
foreseen. An Explanatory Memorandum has been produced for this instrument and
is published alongside this instrument at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

