Title: The Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend various legislation which makes provision about, and in connection with student finance.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/74

## The Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2023

    This Statutory Instrument, in part, corrects errors in the Education
(Student Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1951 ), the
Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2018 (
S.I. 2018/137 ), the Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment)
Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/127 ), the Education (Student Fees, Awards, and
Support) (Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/1348 ), the Higher
Education Short Course Loans Regulations ( S.I. 2022/349 ) and the Education
(Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2022 ( S.I.
2022/534 ) and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of those
Statutory Instruments.

    Education, England

  Made   24th January 2023

  Laid before Parliament   26th January 2023

  Coming into force   16th February 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers in sections 1 and 2 of the Education (Fees and Awards) Act 1983 ,
sections 22 and 42(6) of the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998  and
sections 10(4)(b) and 119(5) of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017 .

### Introductory

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Education (Student Fees, Awards and
Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 16th February
2023.

#### Extent and application

2

2.1

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

2.2

Regulations 97 to 109 (amendment of the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition)
(England) Regulations 2017) apply in relation to English higher education
providers .

2.3

Otherwise these Regulations apply in relation to England only.

2.4

The provisions of these Regulations specified in paragraph  (5)  apply only in
relation to the provision of support, and to fees and awards applicable, in
relation to a new academic year, whether or not anything done under these
Regulations is done before, on or after 1st August 2023.

2.5

The provisions mentioned in paragraph  (4)  are—

2.5.a

regulations  11  to 32,  60  to 62, 76 to 78,  90  to 92,  104 ,  105 ,  116
to 118, 127 and  128  (amendments relating to ordinary residence requirements
for existing protected categories or to in-year events);

2.5.b

regulations  33(3)(b) ,  34(b) ,  35(b) ,  36(b) ,  37(3) ,  63(b) ,  64(4) ,
70(b) ,  71(3)(b) ,  80(b) ,  81(b) ,  82(b) ,  94(b) ,  95(b) ,  107(b) ,
108(b) ,  120(b) ,  121(b) ,  129(b) ,  130(b) ,  131(b)  and  132(3)(b)
(amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of
the Ukraine Schemes);

2.5.c

regulation  53  and the Schedule (new payment rates: student support).

2.6

The provisions of these Regulations specified in paragraph  (7)  apply only in
relation to the provision of support, and to fees and awards applicable, in
relation to—

2.6.a

a new course, or

2.6.b

a new academic year of an existing course,

whether or not anything done under these Regulation is done before, on or
after 1st August 2023.

2.7

The provisions mentioned in paragraph  (6)  are regulations  33(2) ,  33(3)(a)
,  34(a) ,  35(a) ,  36(a) ,  37(2) ,  63(a) ,  64(2)  and  (3) ,  70(a) ,
71(2)  and  (3) (a) , 79,  80(a) ,  81(a) ,  82(a) , 93,  94(a) ,  95(a) ,
106,  107(a) ,  108(a) , 119,  120(a) ,  121(a) 129(a) ,  130(a) ,  131(a) ,
132(2)  and  (3) (a)  (amendments relating to family members of persons
granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes).

2.8

The following provisions of these Regulations apply in relation to the
provision of support to a student, and to fees and awards applicable, in
relation to a new course, whether or not anything done under these Regulations
is done before, on or after 1st August 2023—

2.8.a

regulations 38 to 47 and 109 (amendments relating to courses for higher
technical qualifications or courses for the initial training of teachers in
further education);

2.8.b

regulation 96 (new payment rates: Master’s Degrees);

2.8.c

regulations 122 and 123 (new payment rates: Doctoral Degrees);

2.8.d

regulations  134  to  136  (amendments relating to students who cease to be
eligible students).

2.9

In this regulation—

      “ existing course ” means a course which begins—         on or after 1st
August 2022, and           on or before 31st July 2023;                 “ new
course ” means a course which begins on or after 1st August 2023.

2.10

This regulation is subject to Part 5 (savings).

#### Interpretation: general

3

3.1

In these Regulations “ new academic year ” means an academic year which begins
on or after 1st August 2023.

3.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, an “academic year” is the period of
twelve months beginning with 1st January, 1st April, 1st July or 1st September
of the calendar year in which the academic year of the course in question
begins, according to whether the academic year of the course in question
begins—

3.2.a

on or after 1st January and before 1st April,

3.2.b

on or after 1st April and before 1st July,

3.2.c

on or after 1st July and before 1st August, or

3.2.d

on or after 1st August and on or before 31st December.

### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011

#### Introductory

##### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011

4

The Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011  are amended in accordance
with this Part.

#### Definitions

##### Insertion of definition of “the course start date”

5

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), after the definition of “course for the
initial training of teachers” insert—

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins;

.

6

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

6.a

paragraph 2A(1)(a) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom), for “the
day on which the first term of the first academic year actually begins”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

6.b

in paragraph 8(1)(c) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” ;

6.c

in paragraph 8A(1)(d) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” .

##### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

7

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) —

7.a

after the definition of “household income”, insert—

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971 ;

;

7.b

in the definition of “person granted Calais leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

7.c

in the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph
(a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

7.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

7.e

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

7.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, paragraph (a)(i) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971”;

7.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

7.g.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it appears, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

7.g.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

7.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

7.h.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

7.h.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

7.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

7.j

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

7.j.i

in paragraph (a)(i) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971”;

7.j.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971”;

7.k

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

8

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

8.a

in paragraph 3(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

8.b

in paragraph 4A(4) omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971)”.

##### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

9

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(1)—

9.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

9.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

##### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

10

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the definition of “ person granted
leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended
by regulation 7 of these Regulations)—

10.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

10.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

10.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

#### Eligible students, eligible part-time students and eligible postgraduate students

##### Amendments relating to the ordinary residence requirements for students in existing protected categories

11

11.1

Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories)  is amended as follows.

11.2

In paragraph 4 (refugees and their family members)—

11.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

11.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

11.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

11.3

In paragraph 4A (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

11.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

11.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

11.3.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

11.4

In paragraph 4B (persons granted section 67 leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

11.5

In paragraph 4C (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

11.6

In paragraph 4D (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

11.7

In paragraph 4E (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” .

11.8

In paragraph 5 (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

11.8.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

11.8.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

11.8.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

11.9

In paragraph 14 (persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes), for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

11.10

In paragraph 15 (evacuated or assisted British Nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

##### Amendments relating to students becoming eligible for student support in the course of an academic year

12

In regulation 2 (interpretation) —

12.a

in the heading, after interpretation insert  “: general” ;

12.b

in paragraph (1)—

12.b.i

after the definition of “contribution” insert—

“ course designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(5);

;

12.b.ii

after the definition of “intensive course” insert—

“ in-year qualifying event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(2);

;

12.b.iii

after the definition of “ordinary duration” insert—

“ part-time course designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation
2A(6);

;

12.b.iv

after the definition of “person with protected rights” insert—

“ postgraduate course designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation
2A(7);

;

12.b.v

after the definition of “private institution” insert—

“ protected category event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(3);

;

12.b.vi

after the definition of “Scottish healthcare allowance” insert—

“ settled status event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(4);

.

13

After regulation 2 insert—

######### Meaning of “in-year qualifying event”, “protected category event”, “settled status event”, “course designation event” etc. and related matters

13.2A

13.2A.1

This regulation defines “in-year qualifying event”, “protected category event”
“settled status event”, “course designation event”, “part-time course
designation event” and “postgraduate course designation event” and makes
related provision for the purposes of these Regulations.

13.2A.2

“ In-year qualifying event ”, in relation to a student, means—

13.2A.2.a

a protected category event which occurs after the course start date;

13.2A.2.b

a settled status event;

13.2A.2.c

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3(1)(a) of Schedule 1;

13.2A.2.d

where regulation 4(2A), 137(2A) or 159(3A) applies, the student becomes a
person described in paragraph 12(a) of Schedule 1;

13.2A.2.e

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 6A(1)(a) of Schedule 1, or
where regulation 4(2A), 137(2A) or 159(3A) applies, in paragraph 6(1)(a) of
Schedule 1;

13.2A.2.f

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 11A(a) of Schedule 1 or,
where regulation 4(2A), 137(2A) or 159(3A) applies, in paragraph 11(1)(a) of
Schedule 1; or

13.2A.2.g

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 9B(1)(a)(ii) of Schedule
1.

13.2A.3

“ Protected category event ”, in relation to a student, means—

13.2A.3.a

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent is recognised as
a refugee;

13.2A.3.b

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted stateless leave;

13.2A.3.c

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted humanitarian protection;

13.2A.3.d

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

13.2A.3.e

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

13.2A.3.f

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

13.2A.3.g

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner;

13.2A.3.h

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

13.2A.3.i

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

13.2A.4

“ Settled status event ”, in relation to a student. means the student becomes
a family member described in paragraph 9A(1)(a), 9C(1)(a) or 9D(1)(a) or
(2)(a) of Schedule 1.

13.2A.5

“ Course designation event ”, in relation to a course, means—

13.2A.5.a

the course is designated under regulation 5(10);

13.2A.5.b

the English higher education provider which is providing the course, or on
whose behalf the course is being provided, becomes a registered provider;

13.2A.5.c

the course becomes a Northern Irish designated full-time course, a Scottish
designated full-time course or a Welsh designated full-time course.

13.2A.6

“ Part-time course designation event ”, in relation to a course, means—

13.2A.6.a

the course is designated under regulation 139(7);

13.2A.6.b

the English higher education provider which is providing the course, or on
whose behalf the course is being provided, becomes a registered provider;

13.2A.6.c

the course becomes a Northern Irish designated part-time course, a Scottish
designated part-time course or a Welsh designated part-time course.

13.2A.7

“ Postgraduate course designation event ”, in relation to a course, means—

13.2A.7.a

the course is designated under regulation 139(7);

13.2A.7.b

the English higher education provider which is providing the course, or on
whose behalf the course is being provided, becomes a registered provider; or

13.2A.7.c

the course becomes a Northern Irish designated part-time course, a Scottish
designated part-time course or a Welsh designated part-time course.

13.2A.8

Where a protected category event occurs in relation to a student after the
course start date, paragraph (9) applies for the purposes of determining
whether that event results in the student becoming an eligible student,
eligible part-time student or eligible postgraduate student.

13.2A.9

The student is to be treated, for the purposes of determining whether the
student satisfies any requirement in Schedule 1 to be ordinarily resident in
England on the course start date, as if the student was, on the course start
date, lawfully residing in the place where the student was residing on that
date.

.

14

In regulation 9(2)(a) (time limits), for “one of the events listed in
regulation 17” substitute  “an in-year qualifying event” .

15

15.1

For regulation 16 (other than the heading) (students becoming eligible during
the course of an academic year) substitute—

15.1.16

15.1.16.1

Where—

15.1.16.1.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year;

15.1.16.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
student occurs—

15.1.16.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

15.1.16.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

15.1.16.1.c

an in-year qualifying event which results in a student becoming an eligible
student occurs within the first three months of an academic year,

the student may qualify for a fee loan in accordance with this Part in respect
of that academic year.

15.1.16.2

But a fee loan is not available in respect of any academic year beginning
before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

.

16

Omit regulation 17 (events).

17

In regulation 38 (general qualifying conditions for grants for living and
other costs) , for paragraph (8) substitute—

17.8

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

17.8.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

17.8.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a particular grant in accordance with this Part in
respect of that academic year.

17.8A

Subject to paragraph (8B), where—

17.8A.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

17.8A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a particular grant in accordance with this Part in
respect of part of that academic year.

17.8B

A student does not qualify for such a grant in respect of any academic year
beginning before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

.

18

In regulation 41 (amount of disabled students’ allowance) , for paragraph (8)
substitute—

18.8

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

18.8.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

18.8.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for the disabled students’ allowance in respect of the
four quarters of that academic year.

18.8A

Where—

18.8A.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

18.8A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for the disabled students’ allowance in respect of the
qualifying quarters.

18.8B

For the purposes of paragraph (8A) “ the qualifying quarters ” means—

18.8B.a

the quarter in which the relevant event occurs; and

18.8B.b

if relevant, such other quarters as begin after the relevant event occurs.

.

19

In regulation 45 (childcare grant) , for paragraph (11) substitute—

19.11

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

19.11.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

19.11.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a childcare grant in respect of the four quarters
of that academic year.

19.11A

Where—

19.11A.a

a course designation event which results in student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

19.11A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a childcare grant in respect of such quarters of
the academic year as begin after the event in question occurs.

.

20

In regulation 47(8)(d) (calculations)  for “an event referred to in regulation
17” substitute—

—

20.i

a course designation event, or

20.ii

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event)

.

21

For regulation 49A (quarters in respect of which grant for travel is payable)
substitute—

21.49A

21.49A.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), a grant for travel is payable in respect of
the four quarters of the academic year.

21.49A.2

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

21.49A.2.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

21.49A.2.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a grant for travel in respect of the four quarters
of the first academic year of the course.

21.49A.3

Where—

21.49A.3.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

21.49A.3.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a grant for travel in respect of such quarters of
the academic year as begin after the event in question occurs.

.

22

In regulation 56 (qualifying conditions for maintenance grants) , for
paragraph (6) substitute—

22.6

Where any of the following events occur in the course of an academic year, a
student may qualify for a maintenance grant in respect of such quarters of the
academic year as begin after the relevant event occurs—

22.6.a

a course designation event which results in the student’s course becoming a
designated course; or

22.6.b

an event falling within regulation 2A(2)(c), (d), (e) or (f), or 2A(3)(a), (b)
or (c), which results in the student becoming an eligible student.

.

23

In regulation 61 (qualifying conditions for special support grant) , for
paragraph (6) substitute—

23.6

Where any of the following events occur in the course of an academic year, a
student may qualify for a special support grant in respect of such quarters of
the academic year as begin after the relevant event occurs—

23.6.a

a course designation event which results in the student’s course becoming a
designated course; or

23.6.b

an event falling within regulation 2A(2)(c), (d), (e) or (f), or 2A(3)(a), (b)
or (c), which results in the student becoming an eligible student.

.

24

24.1

In regulation 85 (students becoming eligible in the course of an academic
year: loans for living costs)  is amended as follows.

24.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

24.2.1

Where any of the following events occur in the course of an academic year, a
student may qualify for a loan for living costs in respect of which such a
loan is payable as begin after the event in question occurs—

24.2.1.a

a course designation event which results in the student’s course becoming a
designated course; or

24.2.1.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in the student becoming an eligible student.

24.2.1A

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

24.2.1A.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

24.2.1A.b

on before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a loan for living costs in respect of all quarters
of that academic year in respect of which a loan for living costs is payable.

.

24.3

Omit paragraph (2).

25

For regulation 138 (other than the heading) (students becoming eligible for
support under Part 11A during the course of the academic year) substitute—

25.138

25.138.1

Where—

25.138.1.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated part-time course occurs in the course of an academic
year;

25.138.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
part-time student occurs—

25.138.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year or a course; and

25.138.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

25.138.1.c

an in-year qualifying event occurs within the first three months of an
academic year which results in a student becoming an eligible part-time
student,

the student may qualify for a fee loan in accordance with this Part in respect
of that academic year.

25.138.2

But a fee loan is not available in respect of any academic year beginning
before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

.

26

For regulation 138A (other than the heading) (students becoming eligible for
support under Part 11B during the course of an academic year)  substitute—

26.138A

26.138A.1

Where—

26.138A.1.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated part-time course occurs in the course of an academic
year; or

26.138A.1.b

an in-year qualifying event (other a settled status event) which results in a
student becoming an eligible student occurs within the first three months of
an academic year,

the student may qualify for a loan for living costs in respect of such
quarters in respect of which a loan for living costs is payable as begin after
the event in question occurs.

26.138A.2

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible part-time student occurs—

26.138A.2.a

in the course of the first academic year of the course; and

26.138A.2.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a loan for living costs in respect of all quarters
of that academic year in respect of which a loan for living costs is payable.

.

27

In regulation 147 (disabled part-time students’ allowance) , for paragraph (8)
substitute—

27.8

Where—

27.8.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated part-time course occurs in the course of an academic
year; or

27.8.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible part-time student occurs in the course of an
academic year,

the student may qualify for the grant under this regulation in respect of the
qualifying quarters.

27.8A

For the purposes of paragraph (8), “ the qualifying quarters ” means—

27.8A.a

the quarter in which the relevant event occurs; and

27.8A.b

if relevant, such other quarters as begin after the relevant event occurs.

27.8B

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible part-time student occurs—

27.8B.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

27.8B.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for the grant under this regulation in respect of the
four quarters of that academic year.

.

28

In regulation 148(6)(a) (applications for support) , for “one of the events
listed in paragraph (4) of regulation 138” substitute  “an event falling
within regulation 138(1)” .

29

In regulation 157C(6)(a) (applications for a loan for living costs)  for “one
of the events listed in paragraph (4) of regulation 138” substitute  “an event
falling within regulation 138(1)” .

30

For regulation 160 (other than the heading) (postgraduate students becoming
eligible for support in the course of an academic year) substitute—

30.160

30.160.1

Where—

30.160.1.a

a postgraduate course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated postgraduate course occurs in the course of an academic
year;

30.160.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
postgraduate student occurs—

30.160.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

30.160.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

30.160.1.c

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible postgraduate student occurs in the course of
an academic year,

the student may qualify for the grant under this Part in respect of that
academic year in accordance with this Part.

30.160.1B

But a grant of a kind available under this Part is not available in respect of
any academic year beginning before the academic year in which the event in
question occurs.

.

31

31.1

Regulation 166 (amount of grant)  is amended as follows.

31.2

In paragraph (5) for “one of the events listed in regulation 160(2)”
substitute  “an event falling within regulation 160(1)(a) or (c)” .

31.3

After paragraph (5) insert—

31.3.6

Where an event falling within regulation 160(1)(b) occurs, a student may
qualify for a grant under this Part in respect of the four quarters of the
first academic year.

.

32

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(2A), after “place”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “(but see also
regulation 2A(8) and (9))” .

##### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

33

33.1

Regulation 2 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

33.2

In paragraph (1)—

33.2.a

in the definition of “ person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme ” (as amended by regulation 7 of these Regulations), in
paragraph (a)—

33.2.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

33.2.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (ii) (other than “and” at the end of that sub-paragraph);

33.2.b

in the definition of “ person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended by regulation 10 of these Regulations),
in paragraph (a)—

33.2.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (ii) insert  “or” ;

33.2.b.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

33.2.b.iii

omit sub-paragraph (iv).

33.3

In regulation 2A(3) (as inserted by regulation 13 of these Regulations)—

33.3.a

in sub-paragraph (h), after “student” insert  “or the student’s spouse, civil
partner or parent” ;

33.3.b

in sub-paragraph (i), after “student” insert  “or the student’s spouse, civil
partner or parent” .

34

In regulation 4 (eligible students) —

34.a

in paragraph (13C)(a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

34.b

in paragraph (13D)(a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

35

In regulation 137 (eligible part-time students) —

35.a

in paragraph (11C)(a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

35.b

in paragraph (11D)(a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

36

In regulation 159 (eligible postgraduate students) —

36.a

in paragraph (16C)(a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

36.b

in paragraph (16D)(a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

37

37.1

Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) is amended as follows.

37.2

In paragraph 14 (as amended by regulation  11(9)  of these Regulations)—

37.2.a

for the heading substitute—

Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

;

37.2.b

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

37.2.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

37.2.c.2

A person who—

37.2.c.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

37.2.c.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

37.2.c.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

37.2.c.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

37.2.c.3

A person who—

37.2.c.3.a

is—

37.2.c.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

37.2.c.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

37.2.c.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

37.2.c.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

37.2.c.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of the person
granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

37.2.c.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

37.2.c.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

37.2.c.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the day on the course start date.

37.2.c.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

37.3

For paragraph 16 (including the heading)  substitute—

########### Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

37.3.16

37.3.16.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in England on the course start date.

37.3.16.2

A person who—

37.3.16.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

37.3.16.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

37.3.16.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

37.3.16.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

37.3.16.3

A person who—

37.3.16.3.a

is—

37.3.16.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

37.3.16.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

37.3.16.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

37.3.16.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

37.3.16.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of the person
granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

37.3.16.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

37.3.16.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

37.3.16.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

37.3.16.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

#### Designated courses and designated part-time courses

##### Designation of courses for higher technical qualifications

38

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) —

38.a

after the definition of “allied health profession subject” insert—

“ approved HTQ ” means an approved technical education qualification (within
the meaning of Chapter A1 of Part 1 of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Learning
and Children Act 2009  (see section A12(1) of that Act)) which is— included in
the list of qualifications maintained by the Institute for Apprenticeships and
Technical Education  in accordance with section A2HA of the Apprenticeships,
Skills, Learning and Children Act 2009 (list of technical education
qualifications); and at level 4 or 5— on the Framework for Higher Education
Qualifications of UK-Degree Awarding Bodies , as amended from time to time; or
as described in the Ofqual Handbook: General Conditions of Recognition , as
amended from time to time;

;

38.b

for the definition of “preliminary course” substitute—

“ preliminary course ” means— a course mentioned in paragraph 2 to 4 of
Schedule 2, or overseas equivalent, that is taken before a full-time degree
course (other than a first degree course for the initial training of
teachers); a course mentioned in paragraph 12 of Schedule 2 that is taken
before a full-time degree course; or a foundation degree course, or overseas
equivalent, taken before a full-time honours degree course;

.

39

39.1

In regulation 22 (standard entitlement of current system students on certain
degree courses etc) —

39.1.a

in paragraph (2)(a), for the words from “mentioned in paragraph” to “intensive
course” substitute  “specified in paragraph (2A)” ;

39.1.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

39.1.b.2A

The courses mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) are—

39.1.b.2A.a

an intensive course;

39.1.b.2A.b

a course mentioned in paragraph 2, 3 or 4 of Schedule 2 or overseas
equivalent;

39.1.b.2A.c

a course mentioned in paragraph 12 of Schedule 2;

39.1.b.2A.d

a foundation degree course or overseas equivalent.

39.1.b.2B

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a) it does not matter whether a course
specified in paragraph (2A)(b), (c) or (d) was completed on a full-time, part-
time or full-time distance learning basis.

.

40

In regulation 139(2A) (designated part-time courses) , after sub-paragraph (c)
insert—

40.ca

a course which leads to an approved HTQ;

.

41

In Schedule 2 (designated courses), after paragraph 11 insert—

41.12

A course for an approved HTQ.

.

##### Amendments relating to courses for initial further education teacher training

42

42.1

Regulation 2 (interpretation)  is amended as follows.

42.2

In paragraph (1)—

42.2.a

for the definition of “course for the initial training of teachers”
substitute—

“ course for the initial training of teachers ” has the meaning given in
paragraph (1ZA);

;

42.2.b

after the definition of “quarter” insert—

“ recognised initial further education teacher training course ” means a
course included in the list maintained by the Secretary of State in accordance
with regulation 2B;

;

42.3

After paragraph (1) insert—

42.3.1ZA

“ Course for the initial training of teachers ” means any of the following
courses other than an employment-based teaching training scheme—

42.3.1ZA.a

a course of initial teacher training undertaken in England and leading to the
recommendation of qualified teacher status in England;

42.3.1ZA.b

a course of initial teacher training undertaken in Wales and accredited as
initial teacher training by the Education Workforce Council ;

42.3.1ZA.c

a course of initial teacher training undertaken in Scotland and accredited as
initial teacher training by the General Teaching Council for Scotland ;

42.3.1ZA.d

a course of initial teacher training undertaken in Northern Ireland and
accredited as initial teacher training by the General Teaching Council for
Northern Ireland ;

42.3.1ZA.e

a course for the initial training of teachers in further education undertaken
in England leading to a Diploma in Education and Training awarded by a
recognised body, or with content equivalent to a Diploma in Education and
Training and leading to a qualification awarded by a relevant provider, which—

42.3.1ZA.e.i

is not a recognised initial further education teacher training course; and

42.3.1ZA.e.ii

begins before 1st September 2024;

42.3.1ZA.f

a recognised initial further education teacher training course undertaken in
England;

42.3.1ZA.g

a course for the initial training of teachers in further education which is
undertaken in Wales and leads to a qualification the standard of which is at
least equivalent to a Diploma in Higher Education;

42.3.1ZA.h

a course for the Teaching Qualification in Further Education which is
undertaken in Scotland;

42.3.1ZA.i

a course for the initial training of teachers in further education undertaken
in Northern Ireland which leads to a qualification which is approved by the
Department for the Economy as a qualification which entitles a person to work
as a full-time, associate or essential skills lecturer in a further education
college in Northern Ireland.

42.3.1ZB

For the purposes of paragraph (1ZA)—

42.3.1ZB.a

a course mentioned in sub-paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (g), (h) or (i) of
that paragraph includes a course leading to a first degree;

42.3.1ZB.b

“ recognised body ” means an awarding body (within the meaning of section 132
of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009) which is
recognised by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation  in
accordance with that section;

42.3.1ZB.c

“ relevant provider ” means an English higher education provider which has
been granted degree awarding powers by a Royal Charter or by or under an Act
of Parliament.

.

43

In regulation 2A (as inserted by regulation 13 of these Regulations)—

43.a

in paragraph (5) (definition of “course designation event”), at the end of
sub-paragraph (c) insert—

; or

43.a.d

the course becomes a recognised initial further education teacher training
course.

;

43.b

in paragraph (6) (definition of “part-time course designation event”), at the
end of sub-paragraph (c) insert—

; or

43.b.d

the course becomes a recognised initial further education teacher training
course.

.

44

After regulation 2A insert—

######### Recognition of initial further education teacher training courses

44.2B

44.2B.1

The Secretary of State must—

44.2B.1.a

publish in such manner as the Secretary of State considers appropriate; and

44.2B.1.b

maintain,

a list of courses which are, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, initial
further education teacher training courses.

44.2B.2

For the purposes of this regulation, a course is an initial further education
teacher training course if successful completion of the course means that a
person meets the occupational standard for a learning and skills teacher as
determined by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education from
time to time .

.

45

In regulation 12(4ZA) (previous course) , for sub-paragraph (a) (other than
“and” at the end of that sub-paragraph) substitute—

45.a

the current course is a course falling within regulation 2(1ZA)(e), (f), (g),
(h) or (i);

.

46

In regulation 13(2ZA) (miscellaneous) , for sub-paragraph (a) (other than
“and” at the end of that sub-paragraph) substitute—

46.a

the current course is a course falling within regulation 2(1ZA)(e), (f), (g),
(h) or (i);

.

47

In regulation 144(6A) (fee loans for designated part-time courses beginning on
or after 1st September 2012) , for sub-paragraph (a) (other than “and” at the
end of that sub-paragraph) substitute—

47.a

the current course is a course falling within regulation 2(1ZA)(e), (f), (g),
(h) or (i);

.

#### Other minor amendments

##### Omission of references to “qualifying courses” and “qualifying students”

48

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) omit the definition of “qualifying
course”.

49

49.1

Regulation 4 (eligible students)  (as amended by regulation 34 of these
Regulations) is amended as follows.

49.2

In paragraph (12)—

49.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

49.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

49.2.c

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute  “eligible student” .

49.3

In paragraph (13)—

49.3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

49.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

49.3.c

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute  “eligible student” .

49.4

In paragraph (13C)—

49.4.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i)(cc), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

49.4.b

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

49.4.c

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute  “eligible student” .

49.5

In paragraph (13D)—

49.5.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i)(cc), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

49.5.b

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

49.5.c

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute  “eligible student” .

50

In regulation 56(5) (qualifying conditions for the maintenance grant) for
“qualifying student” substitute  “current system student” .

51

In regulation 111 (provision of national insurance number)—

51.a

in paragraph (1), for “eligible or qualifying student” substitute  “eligible
student” ;

51.b

in paragraph (2), for “eligible or qualifying student” substitute  “eligible
student” ;

51.c

in paragraph (3), for “eligible or qualifying student”, in both places it
occurs, substitute  “eligible student” .

52

In regulation 112 (information requirements)—

52.a

in paragraph (1), for “, eligible student or qualifying student” substitute
“or eligible student” ;

52.b

in paragraph (2), for “, eligible student or qualifying student” substitute
“or eligible student” ;

52.c

in paragraph (3), for “, eligible student or qualifying student” substitute
“or eligible student” .

#### New payment rates

##### Amendments relating to new payment rates for student support

53

The Schedule contains amendments relating to payment rates for student
support.

### Corresponding amendments to other subordinate legislation

#### The Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007

54

The Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007  are amended in
accordance with this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Insertion of definition of “the course start date”

55

In regulation 2 (interpretation), after the definition of “award” insert—

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins;

.

56

56.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students)  is amended as follows.—

56.2

In paragraph 2A(1) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom)—

56.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of the course actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” ;

56.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of the course actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” .

56.3

In paragraph 8(1)(c) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year of the course actually begins” substitute
“the course start date” .

56.4

In paragraph 8A(1)(d) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year of the course actually begins” substitute
“the course start date” .

###### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

57

57.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students) is amended as follows.

57.2

In paragraph 1(1) (interpretation) —

57.2.a

after the definition of “family member” insert—

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971;

;

57.2.b

in the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph
(a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

57.2.c

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971”;

57.2.d

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

57.2.d.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

57.2.d.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

57.2.e

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

57.2.e.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

57.2.e.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

57.2.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section
33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

57.2.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

57.2.g.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

57.2.g.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

57.2.h

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

57.3

In paragraph 3(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”.

57.4

In paragraph 4A(4) omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971)”.

57.5

In paragraph 4C omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971”.

57.6

In paragraph 4D omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971”.

57.7

In paragraph 4E(a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971”.

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

58

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) —

58.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

58.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

59

In Schedule 1 (eligible students) , in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of
“person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy
Scheme”—

59.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

59.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

59.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Qualifying persons

###### Amendments relating to the ordinary residence requirements for persons in existing protected categories

60

60.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students)  is amended as follows.

60.2

In paragraph 4 (refugees and their family members)—

60.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

60.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

60.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

60.3

In paragraph 4A (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

60.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

60.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

60.3.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

60.4

In paragraph 4B(c) (persons granted section 67 leave), for “the first day of
the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

60.5

In paragraph 4C(c) (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

60.6

In paragraph 4D(c) (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

60.7

In paragraph 4E(c) (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” .

60.8

In paragraph 5 (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

60.8.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

60.8.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

60.8.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

60.9

In paragraph 5A (persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes), for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

60.10

In paragraph 5B (evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

###### Amendments relating to students who fall within in a paragraph of Schedule 1 after the start of a course

61

In regulation 2(3A) (interpretation) , after “place”, in the second place it
occurs, insert  “(but see also regulation 4(2A) and (2B))” .

62

In regulation 4 (fee charging) , for paragraph (2) substitute—

62.2

For the purposes of this regulation, a person falls within a paragraph of
Schedule 1 if—

62.2.a

in the case of paragraph 2A, 4, 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 5, 5A, 5B, 5C, 8 or 8A of
that Schedule—

62.2.a.i

in relation to the first academic year of the course, they fall within that
paragraph on the course start date; or

62.2.a.ii

in relation to any other academic year of the course, they fall within that
paragraph on the first day of that academic year;

62.2.b

in the case of any other paragraph of that Schedule, they fall within the
relevant paragraph on the first day of an academic year of the course.

62.2A

Where a protected category event occurs in relation to a person after the
course start date, paragraph (2B) applies for the purposes of determining
whether the person falls within a paragraph of Schedule 1 in relation to an
academic year (other than the first academic year).

62.2B

The person is to be treated, for the purposes of determining whether they
satisfy any requirement in Schedule 1 to be ordinarily resident in the United
Kingdom on the course start date, as if they were, on the course start date,
lawfully residing in the place where they were residing on that date.

62.2C

In this regulation “ protected category event ”, in relation to a person,
means—

62.2C.a

the person or the person’s spouse, civil partner or parent is recognised as a
refugee or becomes a person granted stateless leave or a person granted
humanitarian protection;

62.2C.b

the person becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

62.2C.c

the person becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

62.2C.d

the person becomes a person granted Calais leave;

62.2C.e

the person becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner;

62.2C.f

the person becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes.

62.2C.g

the person becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes;

62.2D

For the purposes of paragraph (2C), the following terms have the meanings
given for the purposes of Schedule 1—

62.2D.a

refugee;

62.2D.b

person granted stateless leave;

62.2D.c

person granted humanitarian protection;

62.2D.d

person granted section 67 leave;

62.2D.e

person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of domestic violence or
domestic abuse;

62.2D.f

person granted Calais leave;

62.2D.g

person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner;

62.2D.h

person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes;

62.2D.i

person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

.

###### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

63

In regulation 4(2C) (as inserted by regulation 62 of these Regulations)—

63.a

in sub-paragraph (f), after “the person” insert  “or the person’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” ;

63.b

in sub-paragraph (g), after “the person” insert  “or the person’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” .

64

64.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students) (as amended by regulations 59 and  60(9)  of
these Regulations) is amended as follows.

64.2

In paragraph 1(1)—

64.2.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, for paragraph (a) (other than “and” at the end)
substitute—

64.2.a.a

who has indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside the
immigration rules, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme;

;

64.2.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

64.2.b.i

insert  “or”  at the end of paragraph (a)(ii);

64.2.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

64.2.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv).

64.3

In paragraph 5A—

64.3.a

for the heading substitute—

Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

;

64.3.b

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

64.3.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

64.3.c.2

A person who—

64.3.c.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

64.3.c.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

64.3.c.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

64.3.c.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

64.3.c.3

A person who—

64.3.c.3.a

is—

64.3.c.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

64.3.c.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

64.3.c.3.b

on the leave application date was—

64.3.c.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

64.3.c.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

64.3.c.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

64.3.c.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

64.3.c.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

64.3.c.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

64.4

For paragraph 5C (including the heading)  substitute—

############ Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

64.4.5C

64.4.5C.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

64.4.5C.2

A person who—

64.4.5C.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

64.4.5C.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

64.4.5C.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

64.4.5C.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

64.4.5C.3

A person who—

64.4.5C.3.a

is—

64.4.5C.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

64.4.5C.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

64.4.5C.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

64.4.5C.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

64.4.5C.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

64.4.5C.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

64.4.5C.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

64.4.5C.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

64.4.5C.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

#### The Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010

65

The Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations
2010  are amended in accordance with this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

66

In regulation 3(1) (interpretation) —

66.a

after the definition of “grants for living and other costs”, insert—

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971;

;

66.b

in the definition of “person granted Calais leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “,
as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

66.c

in the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph
(a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

66.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

66.e

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a
victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

66.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

66.f.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

66.f.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

66.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

66.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

66.h.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules;

66.h.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules;

66.i

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

67

67.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students)  is amended as follows.

67.2

In Part 1 (interpretation), in paragraph 1(1)—

67.2.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971”;

67.2.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

67.2.b.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

67.2.b.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” .

67.3

In Part 2 (categories)—

67.3.a

in paragraph 3(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

67.3.b

in paragraph 4A(4) omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971)”.

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

68

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(1)—

68.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

68.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

69

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation), in paragraph
1(1), in the definition of “ person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations
and Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended by regulation  67  of these
Regulations)—

69.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

69.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under ARAP paragraph 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

69.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Eligible students

###### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

70

In regulation 9 (eligible students) —

70.a

in paragraph (11C)(a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

70.b

in paragraph (11D)(a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

71

71.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students)  is amended as follows.

71.2

In Part 1 (interpretation), in paragraph 1(1) (as amended by regulations  67
and 69 of these Regulations)—

71.2.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”—

71.2.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

71.2.a.ii

omit paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

71.2.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

71.2.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii) insert  “or” ;

71.2.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

71.2.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv).

71.3

In Part 2 (categories)—

71.3.a

for paragraph 5A (including the heading) substitute—

############## Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

71.3.a.5A

71.3.a.5A.1

A person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in England on the relevant date.

71.3.a.5A.2

A person who—

71.3.a.5A.2.a

is the spouse or the civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

71.3.a.5A.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

71.3.a.5A.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

71.3.a.5A.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the relevant date.

71.3.a.5A.3

A person who—

71.3.a.5A.3.a

is—

71.3.a.5A.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

71.3.a.5A.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

71.3.a.5A.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

71.3.a.5A.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

71.3.a.5A.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

71.3.a.5A.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

71.3.a.5A.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

71.3.a.5A.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the relevant date.

71.3.a.5A.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

71.3.b

for paragraph 5C (including the heading) substitute—

############## Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

71.3.b.5C

71.3.b.5C.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in England on the relevant date.

71.3.b.5C.2

A person who—

71.3.b.5C.2.a

is the spouse or the civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

71.3.b.5C.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

71.3.b.5C.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

71.3.b.5C.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the relevant date.

71.3.b.5C.3

A person who—

71.3.b.5C.3.a

is—

71.3.b.5C.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

71.3.b.5C.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

71.3.b.5C.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

71.3.b.5C.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

71.3.b.5C.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

71.3.b.5C.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

71.3.b.5C.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

71.3.b.5C.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the relevant date.

71.3.b.5C.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

#### The Further Education Loans Regulations 2012

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Further Education Loans Regulations 2012

72

The Further Education Loans Regulations 2012  are amended in accordance with
this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

73

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) —

73.a

after the definition of “further education course”, insert—

      “ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971;

;

73.b

in the definition of “person granted Calais leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “,
as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

73.c

in the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph
(a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

73.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

73.e

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

73.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971”;

73.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

73.g.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

73.g.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

73.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

73.h.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

73.h.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

73.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

73.j

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

73.j.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

73.j.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

73.k

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

73.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

73.2.a

in paragraph 3(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

73.2.b

in paragraph 4A(4) omit “(within in the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971)”.

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

74

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(1)—

74.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

74.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

75

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the definition of “ person granted
leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended
by regulation 73 of these Regulations)—

75.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

75.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

75.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Eligible students

###### Amendments relating to students becoming eligible for loans after their course has started

76

For regulation 6 (including the heading) substitute—

########## Students becoming eligible after a designated further education course has begun

76.6

76.6.1

Where any of the following events occur after a designated further education
has begun, a student may qualify for a fee loan in accordance with this Part
in respect of that course—

76.6.1.a

the student’s course becomes a designated further education course; or

76.6.1.b

an event specified in paragraph (2) which results in the student becoming an
eligible student.

76.6.2

The events mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) are—

76.6.2.a

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent is
recognised as a refugee or becomes a person granted stateless leave or a
person granted humanitarian protection;

76.6.2.b

the student becomes a family member described in paragraph 9A(1)(a), 9B(1)(a),
9C(1)(a) or 9D(1)(a) or (2)(a) of Schedule 1;

76.6.2.c

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3(1)(a) of Schedule 1;

76.6.2.d

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 6A(1)(a) of Schedule 1;

76.6.2.e

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 11A(a) of Schedule 1;

76.6.2.f

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

76.6.2.g

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

76.6.2.h

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

76.6.2.i

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner;

76.6.2.j

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes;

76.6.2.k

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

76.6.3

Where the event that occurs in relation to a student is an event specified in
paragraph (2)(a), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j) or (k), paragraph (4) applies for
the purposes of determining whether the event results in the student becoming
an eligible student.

76.6.4

The student is to be treated, for the purposes of determining whether the
student satisfies any requirement in Schedule 1 that the student is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the relevant course (“the
course start date”), as if the student was, on the course start date, lawfully
residing in the place where the student was residing on that date.

.

77

Omit regulation 7 (events).

78

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation), in paragraph 1(3)
after “place”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “(but see regulation
6(3) and (4))” .

###### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

79

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) (as amended by regulations 73 and 79 of
these Regulations)—

79.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”—

79.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

79.a.ii

omit paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

79.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

79.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii), insert  “or” ;

79.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

79.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv).

80

In regulation 3 (eligible students) —

80.a

in paragraph (8A)(a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan
Schemes” ;

80.b

in paragraph (8B)(a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes” .

81

In regulation 6 (as substituted by regulation 76 of these Regulations)—

81.a

in paragraph (j), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse, civil
partner or parent” ;

81.b

in paragraph (k), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse, civil
partner or parent” ;

82

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

82.a

for paragraph 5A (including the heading) substitute—

############ Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

82.a.5A

82.a.5A.1

A person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the designated further
education course.

82.a.5A.2

A person who—

82.a.5A.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

82.a.5A.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

82.a.5A.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

82.a.5A.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the
designated further education course.

82.a.5A.3

A person who—

82.a.5A.3.a

is—

82.a.5A.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

82.a.5A.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

82.a.5A.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

82.a.5A.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

82.a.5A.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

82.a.5A.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

82.a.5A.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

82.a.5A.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the
designated further education course.

82.a.5A.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

82.b

for paragraph 5C (including the heading) substitute—

############ Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

82.b.5C

82.b.5C.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the designated further
education course.

82.b.5C.2

A person who—

82.b.5C.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

82.b.5C.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

82.b.5C.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

82.b.5C.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the
designated further education course.

82.b.5C.3

A person who—

82.b.5C.3.a

is—

82.b.5C.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

82.b.5C.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

82.b.5C.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

82.b.5C.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

82.b.5C.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes;

82.b.5C.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

82.b.5C.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

82.b.5C.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the
designated further education course.

82.b.5C.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

#### The Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016

83

The Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016  are
amended in accordance with this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Insertion of definition of “the course start date”

84

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), after the definition of “the course”
insert—

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins;

.

85

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

85.a

in paragraph 2A(1)(a) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom), for
“the day on which the first term of the first academic year actually begins”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

85.b

in paragraph 8(1)(c) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” ;

85.c

in paragraph 8A(1)(d) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” .

###### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

86

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) —

86.a

after the definition of “healthcare bursary” insert—

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971;

;

86.b

in the definition of “person granted Calais leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “,
as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

86.c

the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph (a)
omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

86.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

86.e

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

86.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971”;

86.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

86.g.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

86.g.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

86.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

86.h.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

86.h.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

86.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a) for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

86.j

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

86.j.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

86.j.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

86.k

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

87

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

87.a

in paragraph 3(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

87.b

in paragraph 4A(4) omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971)”.

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

88

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(1)—

88.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

88.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

89

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the definition of “ person granted
leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended
by regulation 86 of these Regulations)—

89.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

89.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

89.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Eligible students

###### Amendments relating to the ordinary residence requirements relating to students in existing protected categories

90

90.1

Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories)  is amended as follows.

90.2

In paragraph 4 (refugees and their family members)—

90.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

90.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

90.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

90.3

In paragraph 4A (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

90.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

90.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

90.3.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

90.4

In paragraph 4B (persons granted section 67 leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

90.5

In paragraph 4C(c) (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

90.6

In paragraph 4D (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

90.7

In paragraph 4E (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” .

90.8

In paragraph 5 (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

90.8.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

90.8.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

90.8.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

90.9

In paragraph 5A (persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes), for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

90.10

In paragraph 5B (evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

###### Amendments relating to students who become eligible for a loan during their course

91

For regulation 7 (other than the heading) (students becoming eligible in the
course of an academic year) substitute—

91.7

91.7.1

Where—

91.7.1.a

during the currency of a course, the course becomes a designated course—

91.7.1.a.i

under regulation 4(6);

91.7.1.a.ii

by virtue of the course being provided by or on behalf of an English higher
education provider which becomes a registered provider; or

91.7.1.a.iii

by virtue of the course becoming a Northern Irish designated master’s degree
course, a Scottish designated master’s degree course or a Welsh designated
master’s degree course;

91.7.1.b

the student commences a designated course after the start date of the
designated course as the relevant academic authority has permitted the student
to commence the course at this later start date; or

91.7.1.c

an event specified in paragraph (2) occurs during the currency of a student’s
course which results in the student becoming an eligible student,

the student may qualify for a postgraduate master’s degree loan, provided that
the student complies with the application provisions set out in Chapter 3 of
Part 1.

91.7.2

The events mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) are—

91.7.2.a

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent is recognised as
a refugee, or becomes a person granted stateless leave or a person granted
humanitarian protection;

91.7.2.b

the student becomes a family member as described in paragraph 9A(1)(a),
9B(1)(a), 9C(1)(a) or 9D(1)(a) or (2)(a) of Schedule 1;

91.7.2.c

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 1;

91.7.2.d

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 6A(1)(a) of Schedule 1;

91.7.2.e

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 11A(1)(a) of Schedule 1;

91.7.2.f

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

91.7.2.g

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

91.7.2.h

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

91.7.2.i

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner;

91.7.2.j

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes;

91.7.2.k

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

91.7.3

Where an event specified in paragraph (2)(a), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j) or (k)
occurs in relation to a student after course start date, paragraph (4) applies
for the purposes of determining whether the event results in the student
becoming an eligible student.

91.7.4

The student is to be treated, for the purposes of determining whether the
student satisfies any requirement in Schedule 1 to be ordinarily resident in
England on the course start date, as if the student was, on the course start
date, lawfully residing in the place where the student was residing on that
date.

.

92

Omit regulation 8 (events).

###### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

93

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) (as amended by regulations 86 and 89 of
these Regulations)—

93.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”—

93.a.i

at the end paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

93.a.ii

omit paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

93.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

93.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii), insert  “or” ;

93.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

93.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv).

94

In regulation 7 (as substituted by regulation 91 of these Regulations)—

94.a

in paragraph (2)(j), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” ;

94.b

in paragraph (2)(k), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” .

95

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories)—

95.a

in paragraph 5A (as amended by regulation  90(9)  of these Regulations)—

95.a.i

for the heading substitute—

Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

;

95.a.ii

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

95.a.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

95.a.iii.2

A person who—

95.a.iii.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

95.a.iii.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

95.a.iii.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

95.a.iii.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

95.a.iii.3

A person who—

95.a.iii.3.a

is—

95.a.iii.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

95.a.iii.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

95.a.iii.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

95.a.iii.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

95.a.iii.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

95.a.iii.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

95.a.iii.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

95.a.iii.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

95.a.iii.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

;

95.b

for paragraph 5C (including the heading)  substitute—

############ Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

95.b.5C

95.b.5C.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in England on the course start date.

95.b.5C.2

A person who—

95.b.5C.2.a

is the spouse or the civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

95.b.5C.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

95.b.5C.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

95.b.5C.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

95.b.5C.3

A person who—

95.b.5C.3.a

is—

95.b.5C.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

95.b.5C.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

95.b.5C.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

95.b.5C.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

95.b.5C.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

95.b.5C.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

95.b.5C.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

95.b.5C.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

95.b.5C.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

##### Payment rates

###### Amendments relating to payment rates

96

In regulation 12(1) and (2) for “£11,836” substitute  “£12,167” .

#### The Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017

97

The Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017  are
amended in accordance with this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Insertion of definition of “the course start date”

98

In regulation 2 (interpretation) , after paragraph (ba) insert—

98.bza

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins;

.

99

99.1

Part 2 of the Schedule (qualifying persons: categories)  is amended as
follows.

99.2

In paragraph 3A(1) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom)—

99.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “the day on which the first term of the first
academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start date” ;

99.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the day on which the first term of the first
academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start date” .

99.3

In paragraph 9(1)(c) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” .

99.4

In paragraph 9A(1)(d) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” .

###### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

100

In regulation 2 (interpretation) —

100.a

after paragraph (bb) (definition of “dental profession subject”) insert—

100.a.bbzza

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971;

;

100.b

in paragraph (bbza) (definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain
as a bereaved partner”), in paragraph (i) omit “, as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971”;

100.c

in paragraph (bba) (definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain
as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse”), in paragraph (i) omit “,
as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

100.d

in paragraph (bbab) (definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan
Citizens Resettlement Scheme”), in paragraph (i)(aa) omit “as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

100.e

in paragraph (bbac) (definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan
Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”), in paragraph (a)(i)—

100.e.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

100.e.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

100.f

in paragraph (bbb) (definition of “person granted Calais Leave”), in paragraph
(i) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

100.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

100.g.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

100.g.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

100.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

100.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

100.i.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

100.i.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” .

101

101.1

The Schedule (qualifying persons)  is amended as follows.

101.2

In Part 1 (interpretation), in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of “person
granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “(within the meaning given in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

101.3

In Part 2 (categories)—

101.3.a

in paragraph 4(2) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom) omit “(as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”;

101.3.b

in paragraph 5A(4) (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)
omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

101.3.c

in paragraph 6(4)(a) (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”.

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

102

In Part 1 of the Schedule (qualifying persons: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(1)—

102.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

102.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

103

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in the definition of “ person granted leave
under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended by
regulation 100 of these Regulations)—

103.a

after paragraph (a)(i) insert—

103.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

103.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Qualifying persons

###### Amendments relating to the ordinary residence requirements for existing protected categories

104

104.1

Part 2 of the Schedule (qualifying persons: categories)  is amended as
follows.

104.2

In paragraph 5 (refugees and their family members)—

104.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “the first day of the academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

104.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

104.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

104.3

In paragraph 5A (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

104.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

104.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

104.3.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

104.4

In paragraph 5B(b) (persons granted section 67 leave), for “the first day of
the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

104.5

In paragraph 5C (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

104.6

In paragraph 5D (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

104.7

In paragraph 5E (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” .

104.8

In paragraph 5F (persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes), for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

104.9

In paragraph 5G (evacuated or assisted British Nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

104.10

In paragraph 6 (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

104.10.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

104.10.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

104.10.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

###### Amendments relating to events occurring after the start of an academic year

105

Regulation 4 (qualifying person)  is amended as follows.

105.1

In paragraph (1) for the words from “falls within” to the end substitute—

—

105.1.a

falls within a settled category or a protected category—

105.1.a.i

on the course start date, where the relevant academic year is the first
academic year of the person’s course, or

105.1.a.ii

otherwise, on the first day of a relevant academic year;

105.1.b

falls within a prescribed category on the first day of a relevant academic
year.

105.2

In paragraph (2)—

105.2.a

for “the date in that paragraph” substitute  “1st September 2023” ;

105.2.b

for “a prescribed category” substitute  “a settled category, a protected
category or a prescribed category” .

105.3

In paragraph (4)(a), omit—

105.3.a

“3A,”;

105.3.b

“5, 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D, 5E, 5F, 5G, 5H, 6,”;

105.3.c

“9A,”.

105.4

After paragraph (6) insert—

105.4.7

Where a protected category event occurs in relation to a person after the
course start date, paragraph (8) applies for the purposes of determining
whether the person falls within a prescribed category on the first day of the
relevant academic year.

105.4.8

The person is, for the purposes of determining whether they satisfy any
requirement in Part 2 of the Schedule that they are ordinarily resident in the
United Kingdom on the course start date, to be treated as if the person was,
on the course start date, lawfully residing in the place where the person was
residing on that date.

105.4.9

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ protected category ” means any category of persons described in paragraph 5,
5A, 5B, 5C, 5D, 5E, 5F, 5G, 5H or 6 of Part 2 of the Schedule; “ protected
category event ” means an event specified in regulation 6(2)(b), (i), (j),
(k), (l), (m) or (n); “ relevant academic year ” means an academic year
beginning on or after 1st September 2023; “ settled category ” means any
category of persons described in paragraph 3A or 9A of Part 2 of the Schedule.

.

###### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

106

In regulation 2 (interpretation) (as amended by regulations 100 and 103 of
these Regulations)—

106.a

in paragraph (bbab) (definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan
Citizens Resettlement Scheme”)—

106.a.i

at the end of paragraph (i)(aa), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

106.a.ii

omit paragraph (i)(bb) (including “and” at the end);

106.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

106.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii), insert  “or” ;

106.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

106.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv).

107

In regulation 6(2) (qualifying person: effect of event during academic year) —

107.a

in sub-paragraph (m), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” ;

107.b

in sub-paragraph (n), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” .

108

In Part 2 of the Schedule (qualifying persons: categories)—

108.a

in paragraph 5F (as amended by regulation  104(8)  of these Regulations)—

108.a.i

for the heading substitute—

Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

;

108.a.ii

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

108.a.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

108.a.iii.2

A person who—

108.a.iii.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

108.a.iii.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

108.a.iii.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

108.a.iii.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

108.a.iii.3

A person who—

108.a.iii.3.a

is—

108.a.iii.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

108.a.iii.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

108.a.iii.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

108.a.iii.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

108.a.iii.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

108.a.iii.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

108.a.iii.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

108.a.iii.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

108.a.iii.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

;

108.b

for paragraph 5H (including the heading)  substitute—

############ Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

108.b.5H

108.b.5H.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

108.b.5H.2

A person who—

108.b.5H.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

108.b.5H.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

108.b.5H.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

108.b.5H.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

108.b.5H.3

A person who—

108.b.5H.3.a

is—

108.b.5H.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

108.b.5H.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

108.b.5H.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

108.b.5H.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

108.b.5H.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

108.b.5H.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

108.b.5H.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

108.b.5H.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

108.b.5H.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

##### Courses

###### Exceptions: training courses for further education teachers

109

In regulation 5(2A)(a) (qualifying persons: exceptions) , for the words from
“a course” to “Postgraduate Certificate in Education” substitute  “a course
falling within regulation 2(1ZA)(e), (f), (g), (h) or (i) of the Education
(Student Support) Regulations 2011” .

#### The Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations 2018

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations 2018

110

The Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student
Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations 2018  are amended in
accordance with this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Insertion of definition of “the course start date”

111

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), after the definition of “course” insert—

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins.

.

112

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

112.a

in paragraph 2A(1)(a) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom), for
“the day on which the first term of the first academic year begins” substitute
“the course start date” ;

112.b

in paragraph 9(1)(c) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year begins” substitute  “the course start date” ;

112.c

in paragraph 9A(1)(d) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year begins” substitute  “the course start date” ;

###### Insertion of definition of “immigration rules”

113

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) —

113.a

after the definition of “healthcare bursary” insert—

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971;

;

113.b

in the definition of “person granted Calais leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “,
as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

113.c

the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph (a)
omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

113.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

113.e

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

113.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971”;

113.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

113.g.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

113.g.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

113.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

113.h.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

113.h.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

113.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

113.j

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

113.j.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

113.j.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

113.k

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

113.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories) —

113.2.a

in paragraph 3(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

113.2.b

in paragraph 5(4) omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971)”.

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

114

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation) , in paragraph
1(1)—

114.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

114.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

115

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the definition of “ person granted
leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme ” (as amended
by regulation 113 of these Regulations)—

115.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

115.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

115.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Eligible students

###### Amendments relating to the ordinary residence requirements for existing protected categories

116

116.1

Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories)  is amended as follows.

116.2

In paragraph 4 (refugees and their family members)—

116.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

116.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

116.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

116.3

In paragraph 5 (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

116.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

116.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

116.3.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

116.4

In paragraph 5A (persons granted section 67 leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

116.5

In paragraph 5B (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

116.6

In paragraph 5C (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” .

116.7

In paragraph 5D (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” .

116.8

In paragraph 6 (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

116.8.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

116.8.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(d), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

116.8.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(e), for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” .

116.9

In paragraph 6A (persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes), for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

116.10

In paragraph 6B (evacuated or assisted British Nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” .

###### Amendments relating to students becoming eligible in the course of an academic year

117

For regulation 7 (other than the heading) (students becoming eligible in the
course of an academic year) substitute—

117.7

117.7.1

Where—

117.7.1.a

during the currency of a course, a course becomes a designated course—

117.7.1.a.i

under regulation 4(5);

117.7.1.a.ii

because the course is provided by or on behalf of an English higher education
provider which becomes a registered provider; or

117.7.1.a.iii

by virtue of the course becoming a Welsh designated doctoral degree course;

117.7.1.b

the student commences a designated course after the start date of the
designated course as the relevant academic authority has permitted the student
to commence the course at this later start date; or

117.7.1.c

an event specified in paragraph (2) occurs during the currency of a student’s
course which results in the student becoming an eligible student,

the student may qualify for a postgraduate doctoral degree loan, provided that
the student complies with the application provisions set out in Chapter 3 of
Part 1.

117.7.2

The events mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) are—

117.7.2.a

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent is recognised as
a refugee or becomes a person granted stateless leave or a person granted
humanitarian protection;

117.7.2.b

the student becomes a family member described in paragraph 10A(1)(a),
10B(1)(a), 10C(1)(a) or 10D(1)(a) or (2)(a) of Schedule 1;

117.7.2.c

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 1;

117.7.2.d

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 7A(1)(a) of Schedule 1;

117.7.2.e

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 12A(a) of Schedule 1;

117.7.2.f

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

117.7.2.g

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

117.7.2.h

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

117.7.2.i

the student becomes a person granted leave to remain as a bereaved partner;

117.7.2.j

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes;

117.7.2.k

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

117.7.3

Where an event specified in paragraph (2)(a), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j) or (k)
occurs in after the course start date in relation to a student, paragraph (4)
applies for the purposes of determining whether the event results in the
student becoming an eligible student.

117.7.4

The student is, for the purposes of determining whether the student satisfies
any requirement in Schedule 1 to be ordinarily resident in England on the
course start date, to be treated as if the student was, on the course start
date, lawfully residing in the place where the student was residing on that
date.

.

118

Omit regulation 8 (events).

###### Amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

119

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) (as amended by regulations 113 and 115 of
these Regulations)—

119.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”—

119.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

119.a.ii

omit paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

119.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

119.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii), insert  “or” ;

119.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

119.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv).

120

In regulation 7(2) (as substituted by regulation 117 of these Regulations)
(students becoming eligible in the course of an academic year: events)—

120.a

in sub-paragraph (j), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” ;

120.b

in sub-paragraph (k), after “the student” insert  “or the student’s spouse,
civil partner or parent” .

121

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: categories)—

121.a

in paragraph 6A (as amended by regulation  116(9)  of these Regulations)—

121.a.i

for the heading substitute—

Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

;

121.a.ii

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

121.a.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

121.a.iii.2

A person who—

121.a.iii.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

121.a.iii.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

121.a.iii.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

121.a.iii.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

121.a.iii.3

A person who—

121.a.iii.3.a

is—

121.a.iii.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

121.a.iii.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

121.a.iii.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

121.a.iii.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

121.a.iii.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

121.a.iii.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

121.a.iii.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

121.a.iii.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

121.a.iii.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

;

121.b

for paragraph 6C (including the heading)  substitute—

############ Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

121.b.6C

121.b.6C.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in England on the course start date.

121.b.6C.2

A person who—

121.b.6C.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

121.b.6C.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

121.b.6C.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

121.b.6C.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

121.b.6C.3

A person who—

121.b.6C.3.a

is—

121.b.6C.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

121.b.6C.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

121.b.6C.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

121.b.6C.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

121.b.6C.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

121.b.6C.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

121.b.6C.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

121.b.6C.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the course start date.

121.b.6C.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

##### Payment rates

###### Amendments relating to payment rates

122

In regulation 12(1)(a), for “£27,892” substitute  “£28,673” .

123

In regulation 13(4) for “£11,836” substitute  “£12,167” .

#### The Higher Education Short Course (Loans) Regulations 2022

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Higher Education Short Course (Loans) Regulations 2022

124

The Higher Education Short Course (Loans) Regulations 2022  are amended in
accordance with this Chapter.

##### Definitions

###### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

125

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

125.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”, for “St Helena and Dependencies
(Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and
Tristan da Cunha” ;

125.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”, for “St Helena
and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)” substitute  “St
Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” .

###### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme”

126

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (eligible students: interpretation), in paragraph
1(1), in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations
and Assistance Policy Scheme”—

126.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

126.a.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

126.b

in paragraph (a)(iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” .

##### Eligible students

###### Amendments relating to students who become eligible after the start of an HE short course

127

In regulation 2(4) (interpretation) after “place”, in the second place it
occurs, insert  “(but see regulation 7(3) and (4))” .

128

128.1

Regulation 7 (students who become eligible students after the start of an HE
short course) is amended as follows.

128.2

In paragraph (1) for “course, a student” substitute  “course which results in
a student becoming an eligible student, the student” .

128.3

After paragraph (2) insert—

128.3.3

Where an event specified in paragraph (2)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) or
(l) occurs in relation to a student, paragraph (4) applies for the purposes of
determining whether that event results in the student becoming an eligible
student.

128.3.4

The student is, for the purposes of determining whether the student satisfies
any requirement in Schedule 1 to be ordinarily resident in England on the
first day of the HE short course, to be treated as if the student was, on the
course start date, lawfully residing in the place where the student was
residing on that date.

.

###### Amendment relating to the family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

129

In regulation 3(5) (eligible students) —

129.a

for sub-paragraph (h) substitute—

129.a.h

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of being—

129.a.h.i

a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, or

129.a.h.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ A ”) granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes,

the period for which P, or, as the case may be, A, is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired;

;

129.b

for sub-paragraph (i) substitute—

129.b.i

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of being—

129.b.i.i

a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, or

129.b.i.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ U ”) granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes,

the period for which P, or, as the case may be, U, is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired.

.

130

In regulation 6 (students who cease to be eligible students before the start
of an HE short course) —

130.a

in paragraph (9)(a), after “Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil partner,
child or step-child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes”
;

130.b

in paragraph (9A)(a), after “Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil partner,
child or step-child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine
Schemes” .

131

In regulation 7 (students who become eligible after the start of an HE short
course) (as amended by regulation  128  of these Regulations), in paragraph
(2)—

131.a

in sub-paragraph (g), after “the student” insert  “, or the student’s spouse,
civil partner, parent or step-parent,” ;

131.b

in sub-paragraph (l), after “the student” insert  “, or the student’s spouse,
civil partner, parent or step-parent,” .

132

132.1

Schedule 1 (eligible students) is amended as follows.

132.2

In Part 1 (interpretation), in paragraph 1(1) (as amended by regulation 126 of
these Regulations)—

132.2.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”—

132.2.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

132.2.a.ii

omit paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

132.2.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”—

132.2.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii), insert  “or” ;

132.2.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (a)(iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

132.2.b.iii

omit paragraph (a)(iv) (including “and” at the end).

132.3

In Part 2 (categories)—

132.3.a

for paragraph 26 (including the heading) substitute—

############## Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

132.3.a.26

132.3.a.26.1

A person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes who is ordinarily
resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

132.3.a.26.2

A person who—

132.3.a.26.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes,

132.3.a.26.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person,

132.3.a.26.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

132.3.a.26.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

132.3.a.26.3

A person who—

132.3.a.26.3.a

is—

132.3.a.26.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, or

132.3.a.26.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes,

132.3.a.26.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

132.3.a.26.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, or

132.3.a.26.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date,

132.3.a.26.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date,

132.3.a.26.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

132.3.a.26.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

132.3.a.26.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

;

132.3.b

for paragraph 28 (including the heading)  substitute—

############## Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

132.3.b.28

132.3.b.28.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes who is ordinarily
resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

132.3.b.28.2

A person who—

132.3.b.28.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes,

132.3.b.28.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person,

132.3.b.28.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

132.3.b.28.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

132.3.b.28.3

A person who—

132.3.b.28.3.a

is—

132.3.b.28.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, or

132.3.b.28.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes,

132.3.b.28.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

132.3.b.28.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, or

132.3.b.28.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date,

132.3.b.28.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date,

132.3.b.28.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

132.3.b.28.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

132.3.b.28.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

### Other amendments

#### Amendment of regulation 9 of the Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010

133

In regulation 9 (eligible students) of the Education (Student Support)
(European University Institute) Regulations 2010 (as amended by regulation 70
of these Regulations)—

133.a

in paragraph (11C)(a), for “eligible person” substitute  “eligible student” ;

133.b

in paragraph (11D)(a), for “eligible person” substitute  “eligible student” .

#### Amendments relating to termination of status as eligible student: Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016

134

134.1

Regulation 3 (eligible students) of the Education (Postgraduate Master’s
Degree Loans) Regulations 2016  is amended as follows.

134.2

After paragraph (8) insert—

134.2.8A

Where—

134.2.8A.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a refugee or the
spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a refugee, a person (“ A ”) was
an eligible student in connection with an application for a postgraduate
master’s degree loan for a designated course; and

134.2.8A.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the refugee status of A or of A’s
spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent, as the case may be, has expired
and no further leave to remain has been granted and no appeal is pending
(within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum
Act 2002 (“ the 2002 Act ”) ),

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8B

Where—

134.2.8B.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
stateless leave or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person
granted stateless leave, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in
connection with an application for a postgraduate master’s degree loan for a
designated course; and

134.2.8B.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which the person granted
stateless leave is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no
further leave to remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8C

Where—

134.2.8C.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
section 67 leave, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with
an application for a postgraduate master’s degree loan for a designated
course; and

134.2.8C.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A is allowed to
stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further leave to remain has been
granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8D

Where—

134.2.8D.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
Calais leave, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with an
application for a postgraduate master’s degree loan for a designated course;
and

134.2.8D.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A is allowed to
stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further leave to remain has been
granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8E

Where—

134.2.8E.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
humanitarian protection or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a
person granted humanitarian protection, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible
student in connection with an application for a postgraduate master’s degree
loan for a designated course; and

134.2.8E.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which the person granted
humanitarian protection is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
and no further leave to remain has been granted and no appeal is pending
(within the meaning of section 104 of the 2002 Act),

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8F

Where—

134.2.8F.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person with
protected rights with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules, a person (“ A ”) was
an eligible student in connection with an application for a postgraduate
master’s degree loan for a designated course; and

134.2.8F.b

as at the day before the relevant day, A no longer has extant limited leave to
enter or remain granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules and no
further leave to enter or remain has been granted under those rules,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8G

Where—

134.2.8G.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being—

134.2.8G.a.i

a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

134.2.8G.a.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ S ”) granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes,

a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with an application for
a postgraduate master’s degree loan for a designated course; and

134.2.8G.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A or, as the case
may be, S is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

134.2.8H

Where—

134.2.8H.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being—

134.2.8H.a.i

a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

134.2.8H.a.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ U ”) granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes,

a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with an application for
a postgraduate master’s degree loan for a designated course; and

134.2.8H.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A or, as the case
may be, U is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further
leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

.

134.3

In paragraph (9)—

134.3.a

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the first day of the first academic year of that
designated course” substitute  “the relevant day” ;

134.3.b

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “the first day of the first academic
year of that designated course” substitute  “the relevant day” .

134.4

After paragraph (9) insert—

134.4.10

In this regulation “ the relevant day ” means—

134.4.10.a

for the purposes of paragraphs (8A) to (8E), (8G) and (8H)—

134.4.10.a.i

the course start date; or

134.4.10.a.ii

if the relevant status or period for which a person is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom expires on or after the course start date, the first day of the
academic year which begins immediately after the academic year during which
the status or period expires;

134.4.10.b

for the purposes of paragraphs (8F) and (9)—

134.4.10.b.i

the first day of the first academic year of the designated course (“the AY1
start date”); or

134.4.10.b.ii

if A ceases to be a person with protected rights, or to have extant limited
leave to enter or remain, on or after the AY1 start date, the first day of the
academic year which begins immediately after the academic year during which A
ceases to be a person with protected rights or, as the case may be, to have
extant limited leave to enter or remain.

.

135

In regulation 12(4) (amount of the postgraduate master’s degree loan)—

135.a

for “eligible student”, in second place it occurs, substitute  “student” ;

135.b

after “(1) and (2)” insert  “and the student’s status as an eligible student
has not terminated (see regulation 3)” .

#### Amendments relating to termination of status as eligible student: Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations 2018

136

136.1

Regulation 3 of the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the
Education (Student Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations
2018 (eligible students)  is amended as follows.

136.2

After paragraph (11) insert—

136.2.11A

Where—

136.2.11A.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a refugee or the
spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a refugee, a person (“ A ”) is
an eligible student in connection with an application for a postgraduate
doctoral degree loan for a designated course; and

136.2.11A.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the refugee status of A or of A’s
spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent, as the case may be, has expired
and no further leave to remain has been granted and no appeal is pending
(within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum
Act 2002 (“ the 2002 Act ”)),

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11B

Where—

136.2.11B.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
stateless leave or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person
granted stateless leave, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in
connection with an application for a postgraduate doctoral degree loan for a
designated course; and

136.2.11B.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which the person granted
stateless leave is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no
further leave to remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11C

Where—

136.2.11C.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
section 67 leave, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with
an application for a postgraduate doctoral degree loan for a designated
course; and

136.2.11C.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A is allowed to
stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further leave to remain has been
granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11D

Where—

136.2.11D.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
Calais leave, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with an
application for a postgraduate doctoral degree loan for a designated course;
and

136.2.11D.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A is allowed to
stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further leave to remain has been
granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11E

Where—

136.2.11E.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person granted
humanitarian protection or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a
person granted humanitarian protection, a person (“ A ”) was an eligible
student in connection with an application for a postgraduate doctoral degree
loan for a designated course; and

136.2.11E.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which the person granted
humanitarian protection is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
and no further leave to remain has been granted and no appeal is pending
(within the meaning of section 104 of the 2002 Act),

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11F

Where—

136.2.11F.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being a person with
protected rights with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules, a person (“ A ”) was
an eligible student in connection with an application for a postgraduate
doctoral degree loan for a designated course; and

136.2.11F.b

as at the day before the relevant day, A no longer has extant limited leave to
enter or remain granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules and no
further leave to enter or remain has been granted under those rules,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11G

Where—

136.2.11G.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being—

136.2.11G.a.i

a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

136.2.11G.a.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ S ”) granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes,

a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with an application for
a postgraduate doctoral degree loan for a designated course; and

136.2.11G.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A or, as the case
may be, S is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

136.2.11H

Where—

136.2.11H.a

the Secretary of State determined that, by virtue of being—

136.2.11H.a.i

a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

136.2.11H.a.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ U ”) granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes,

a person (“ A ”) was an eligible student in connection with an application for
a postgraduate doctoral degree loan for a designated course; and

136.2.11H.b

as at the day before the relevant day, the period for which A or, as the case
may be, U is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further
leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the relevant
day.

.

136.3

In paragraph (12)—

136.3.a

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the first day of the first academic year of that
designated course” substitute  “the relevant day” ;

136.3.b

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “the first day of the first academic
year of that designated course” substitute  “the relevant day” .

136.4

After paragraph (12) insert—

136.4.13

In this regulation “ the relevant day ” means—

136.4.13.a

for the purposes of paragraphs (11A) to (11E), (11G) and (11H)—

136.4.13.a.i

the course start date, or

136.4.13.a.ii

if the relevant status or period for which a person is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom expires on or after the course start date, the first day of the
academic year which begins immediately after the academic year during which
that status or period expires;

136.4.13.b

for the purposes of paragraphs (11F) and (12)—

136.4.13.b.i

the first day of the first academic year of the designated course (the “AY1
start date”), or

136.4.13.b.ii

if A ceases to be a person with protected rights, or to have extant limited
leave to enter or remain, on or after the AY1 start date, the first day of the
academic year which begins immediately after the academic year during which A
ceases to be a person with protected rights or, as the case may be, to have
extant limited leave to enter or remain.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 2 of the Higher Education Short Course Loans Regulations 2022

137

In regulation 2 of the Higher Education Short Course Loans Regulations 2022—

137.a

in paragraph (1), in the definition of “eligible prisoner”, at the beginning
of paragraph (b) insert  “who” ;

137.b

in paragraph (2), omit sub-paragraph (aa).

### Savings

#### Interpretation of Part 5

138

In this Part “ earlier academic year ” means an academic year beginning before
1st August 2023.

#### Savings: Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011

139

139.1

This regulation applies where an existing SSR Afghan scheme student (“ S ”)
applies for support under the SSR 2011 in respect of a new academic year of a
relevant course (the “current course”).

139.2

For the purposes of determining whether S’s status as a relevant student
terminates before the first day of the academic year of the current course in
respect of which S is applying for support (see regulation 4, 137 or 159 of
the SSR 2011 (as the case may be)), the SSR 2011 apply as if the amendments
made by regulations  33 ,  34(a) ,  35(a) ,  36(a)  and  37(2)  of these
Regulations had not been made.

139.3

In this regulation—

“designated course”, “designated part-time course”, “designated postgraduate
course”, eligible student”, “eligible part-time student” and “eligible
postgraduate student” have the meanings given in the SSR 2011; “ existing SSR
Afghan scheme student ” means a student who the Secretary of State determined,
by virtue of the student falling within paragraph (a)(ii) of the definition of
“person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme” in
regulation 2(1) of the SSR 2011, or paragraph (a)(iv) of the definition of
“person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy
Scheme” in that regulation, to be a relevant student— in connection with an
application for support for an earlier academic year of the current course, or
in connection with an application for support for a relevant course from which
the student’s status   as an eligible student, eligible part-time student or
eligible postgraduate student has been transferred to the current course; “
relevant course ” means a designated course, designated part-time course or
designated postgraduate course; “ relevant student ” means an eligible
student, eligible part-time student or eligible postgraduate student; “ the
SSR 2011 ” means the Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011.

#### Savings: Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010

140

140.1

This regulation applies where an existing EUI Afghan scheme student (“ E ”)
applies for support under the EUI Regulations in respect of a new academic
year of a designated course (the “current course”).

140.2

For the purposes of determining whether E’s status as an eligible student
terminates before the first day of the academic year of the designated course
in respect of which E is applying for support (see regulation 9 of the EUI
Regulations), the EUI Regulations apply as if the amendments made by
regulations  70(a)  and  71(2)  and  (3) (a)  of these Regulations had not
been made.

140.3

In this regulation—

“designated course” and “the Institute” have the meanings given in the EUI
Regulations; “ the EUI Regulations ” means the Education (Student Support)
(European University Institute) Regulations 2010; “ existing EUI Afghan scheme
student ” means a student who the Secretary of State determined, by virtue of
the student falling within paragraph (a)(ii) of the definition of “person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme” in paragraph 1(1)
of Schedule 1 to the EUI Regulations or paragraph (a)(iv) of the definition of
“person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy
Scheme” in that paragraph of that Schedule, to be an eligible student in
connection with— an application for support for an earlier academic year of
the current course, or an application for support for a designated course at
the Institute from which   the student’s status   as an eligible student has
been transferred to the current course.

#### Savings: Higher Education Short Course Loans Regulations 2022

141

141.1

This regulation applies where an existing HESC Afghan scheme student (“ H ”)
applies for support under the HESCL Regulations in respect of an HE short
course beginning on or after 1st August 2023 (the “current course”).

141.2

For the purposes of determining whether—

141.2.a

H is a returning student for the purposes of regulation 3(2)(a)(ii) of the
HESC Loans Regulations in connection with the current course, or

141.2.b

H’s status as an eligible student terminates before the first day of the
current course (see regulation 6 of the HESC Loans Regulations),

the HESCL Regulations apply as if the amendments made by regulations  129(a) ,
130(a) ,  131(a) ,  132(2)  and  (3) (a)  of these Regulations had not been
made.

141.3

In this regulation—

      “ existing HESC Afghan scheme student ” means a student who the
Secretary of State determined, by virtue of the student falling within—
paragraph (a)(ii) of the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan
Citizens Resettlement Scheme” in paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 1 to the HESCL
Regulations, or           paragraph (a)(iv) of the definition of “person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme” in
that paragraph of that Schedule,         to be an eligible student for the
purposes of the HESCL Regulations in connection with an application for an
HESC loan for a course beginning before the current course;           “ the
HESCL Regulations ” means the Higher Education Short Course Loans Regulations
2022.

      Barran   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Education     24th January 2023

  Amendments relating to new payment rates for student support under the
Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011

Regulation 53

  In each provision of the Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011 listed
in column 1 of the following table, for the figure listed in the corresponding
entry in column 2  substitute the figure listed in the corresponding entry in
column 3—             Column 1       (provision in the Regulations)
Column 2       (existing figure)         Column 3       (new figure)
Regulation 41(2)(a) £25,575 £26,291 Regulation 44(3)(a) £3,263 £3,354
Regulation 44(3)(b) £3,263 £3,354 Regulation 45(5)(a) £183.75 £188.90
Regulation 45(5)(b) £315.03 £323.85 Regulation 46(2) £1,863 £1,915 Regulation
47(1B) £15,271.98 £15,453.98 Regulation 47(2C)(i) £19,281.99 £19,549.79
Regulation 47(2C)(ii) £27,499.55 £27,958.19 Regulation 47(3B) £18,635.98
£18,739.98 Regulation 58(1) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 58(5)(a) £3,680 £3,783
Regulations 58(5)(b) £50,724 (in both places it occurs) £50,713 Regulation
58(5)(b) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 58(5)(b) £4.23 £4.11 Regulation 58(5)(b)
£34,298 (in both places it occurs) £34,289 Regulation 58(5)(b) £11.47 £11.15
Regulation 58(5)(c) £50,724 £50,713 Regulation 59(1) £4,009 £4,121 Regulation
59(2)(a) £4,009 £4,121 Regulation 59(2)(b) £42,737 £42,738 Regulation 59(2)(b)
£4,009 £4,121 Regulation 59(2)(b) £4.48 £4.357 Regulation 59(2)(c) £42,737
£42,738 Regulation 60(1) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 60(5)(a) £3,680 £3,783
Regulation 60(5)(b) £39,593 (in both places it occurs) £39,583 Regulation
60(5)(b) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 60(5)(b) £4.71 £4.58 Regulation 60(5)(b)
£28,111 (in both places it occurs) £28,107 Regulation 60(5)(b) £7.36 £7.15
Regulation 60(5)(c) £39,593 £39,583 Regulation 63(1) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation
63(5)(a) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 63(5)(b) £50,724 (in both places it occurs)
£50,713 Regulation 63(5)(b) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 63(5)(b) £4.23 £4.11
Regulation 63(5)(b) £34,298 (in both places it occurs) £34,289 Regulation
63(5)(b) £11.47 £11.15 Regulation 63(5)(c) £50,724 £50,713 Regulation 64(1)
£4,009 £4,121 Regulation 64(2)(a) £4,009 £4,121 Regulation 64(2)(b) £42,737
£42,738 Regulation 64(2)(b) £4,009 £4,121 Regulation 64(2)(b) £4.48 £4.357
Regulation 64(2)(c) £42,737 £42,738 Regulation 65(1) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation
65(5)(a) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 65(5)(b) £39,593 (in both places it occurs)
£39,583 Regulation 65(5)(b) £3,680 £3,783 Regulation 65(5)(b) £4.71 £4.58
Regulation 65(5)(b) £28,111 (in both places it occurs) £28,107 Regulation
65(5)(b) £7.36 £7.15 Regulation 65(5)(c) £39,593 £39,583 Regulation 68(b)(i)
£1,610 £1,655 Regulation 68(b)(ii) £1,610 (in both places it occurs) £1,655
(in both places it occurs) Regulation 74(2)(i) £4,856 £4,992 Regulation
74(2)(ii) £8,764 £9,009 Regulation 74(2)(iii) £7,455 £7,664 Regulation
74(2)(iv) £6,263 £6,438 Regulation 74(2) (words after sub-paragraph (iv))
£4.01 £3.90 Regulation 74(3)(i) £4,405 £4,528 Regulation 74(3)(ii) £7,979
£8,202 Regulation 74(3)(iii) £6,483 £6,665 Regulation 74(3)(iv) £5,795 £5,957
Regulation 74(3) (words after sub-paragraph (iv)) £4.01 £3.90 Regulation 74(6)
£50,724 £50,713 Regulation 74(6)(a) £4,856 £4,992 Regulation 74(6)(b) £8,764
£9,009 Regulation 74(6)(c) £7,455 £7,664 Regulation 74(6)(d) £6,263 £6,438
Regulation 74(7) £50,724 £50,713 Regulation 74(7)(a) £4,405 £4,528 Regulation
74(7)(b) £7,979 £8,202 Regulation 74(7)(c) £6,483 £6,665 Regulation 74(7)(d)
£5,795 £5,957 Regulation 74(8) £50,724 £50,713 Regulation 74(8)(i) £4,856
£4,992 Regulation 74(8)(ii) £8,764 £9,009 Regulation 74(8)(iii) £7,455 £7,664
Regulation 74(8)(iv) £6,263 £6,438 Regulation 74(9) £50,724 £50,713 Regulation
74(9)(i) £4,405 £4,528 Regulation 74(9)(ii) £7,979 £8,202 Regulation
74(9)(iii) £6,483 £6,665 Regulation 74(9)(iv) £5,795 £5,957 Regulation
76(2)(i) £5,534 £5,689 Regulation 76(2)(ii) £9,708 £9,980 Regulation
76(2)(iii) £8,267 £8,498 Regulation 76(2)(iv) £6,958 £7,153 Regulation 76(2)
(words after sub-paragraph (iv)) £7.93 £7.72 Regulation 76(3)(i) £5,084 £5,226
Regulation 76(3)(ii) £8,842 £9,090 Regulation 76(3)(iii) £7,185 £7,386
Regulation 76(3)(iv) £6,470 £6,651 Regulation 76(3) (words after sub-paragraph
(iv)) £7.93 £7.72 Regulation 76(6) £42,737 £42,738 Regulation 76(6)(a) £5,534
£5,689 Regulation 76(6)(b) £9,708 £9,980 Regulation 76(6)(c) £8,267 £8,498
Regulation 76(6)(d) £6,958 £7,153 Regulation 76(7) £42,737 £42,738 Regulation
76(7)(a) £5,084 £5,226 Regulation 76(7)(b) £8,842 £9,090 Regulation 76(7)(c)
£7,185 £7,386 Regulation 76(7)(d) £6,470 £6,651 Regulation 76(8) £42,737
£42,738 Regulation 76(8)(i) £5,534 £5,689 Regulation 76(8)(ii) £9,708 £9,980
Regulation 76(8)(iii) £8,267 £8,498 Regulation 76(8)(iv) £6,958 £7,153
Regulation 76(9) £42,737 £42,738 Regulation 76(9)(i) £5,084 £5,226 Regulation
76(9)(ii) £8,842 £9,090 Regulation 76(9)(iii) £7,185 £7,386 Regulation
76(9)(iv) £6,470 £6,651 Regulation 77(2)(i) £4,645 £4,775 Regulation 77(2)(ii)
£8,405 £8,640 Regulation 77(2)(iii) £7,150 £7,350 Regulation 77(2)(iv) £6,002
£6,170 Regulation 77(3)(i) £4,196 £4,313 Regulation 77(3)(ii) £7,651 £7,865
Regulation 77(3)(iii) £6,217 £6,391 Regulation 77(3)(iv) £5,552 £5,707
Regulation 80(1)(a)(i) £1,902 £1,955 Regulation 80(1)(a)(ii) £3,558 £3,658
Regulation 80(1)(a)(iii) £2,534 £2,605 Regulation 80(1)(b)(i) £2,205 £2,267
Regulation 80(1)(b)(ii) £4,128 £4,244 Regulation 80(1)(b)(iv) £2,940 £3,022
Regulation 80(1)(c)(i) £3,482 £3,579 Regulation 80(1)(c)(ii) £6,303 £6,479
Regulation 80(1)(c)(iii) £5,364 £5,514 Regulation 80(1)(c)(iv) £4,501 £4,627
Regulation 80(1)(d)(i) £3,496 £3,594 Regulation 80(1)(d)(ii) £6,310 £6,487
Regulation 80(1)(d)(iii) £5,368 £5,518 Regulation 80(1)(d)(iv) £4,509 £4,635
Regulation 80(1)(e)(i) £3,597 £3,698 Regulation 80(1)(e)(ii) £6,310 £6,487
Regulation 80(1)(e)(iii) £5,375 £5,526 Regulation 80(1)(e)(iv) £4,526 £4,653
Regulation 80(1)(f)(i) £3,597 £3,698 Regulation 80(1)(f)(ii) £6,308 £6,485
Regulation 80(1)(f)(iii) £5,374 £5,524 Regulation 80(1)(f)(iv) £4,524 £4,651
Regulation 80(2)(a)(i) £1,443 £1,483 Regulation 80(2)(a)(ii) £2,724 £2,800
Regulation 80(2)(a)(iii) £1,975 £2,030 Regulation 80(2)(b)(i) £1,675 £1,722
Regulation 80(2)(b)(ii) £3,158 £3,246 Regulation 80(2)(b)(iv) £2,292 £2,356
Regulation 80(2)(c)(i) £3,149 £3,237 Regulation 80(2)(c)(ii) £5,739 £5,900
Regulation 80(2)(c)(iii) £4,663 £4,794 Regulation 80(2)(c)(iv) £4,165 £4,282
Regulation 80(2)(d)(i) £3,172 £3,261 Regulation 80(2)(d)(ii) £5,744 £5,905
Regulation 80(2)(d)(iii) £4,667 £4,798 Regulation 80(2)(d)(iv) £4,174 £4,291
Regulation 80(2)(e)(i) £3,304 £3,397 Regulation 80(2)(e)(ii) £5,747 £5,908
Regulation 80(2)(e)(iii) £4,670 £4,801 Regulation 80(2)(e)(iv) £4,207 £4,325
Regulation 80(2)(f)(i) £3,304 £3,397 Regulation 80(2)(f)(ii) £5,747 £5,908
Regulation 80(2)(f)(iii) £4,669 £4,800 Regulation 80(2)(f)(iv) £4,206 £4,324
Regulation 80A(2)(i) (first place paragraph (i) occurs) £8,171 £8,400
Regulation 80A(2)(ii) (first place paragraph (ii) occurs) £12,667 £13,022
Regulation 80A(2)(iii) (first place paragraph (iii) occurs) £11,116 £11,427
Regulation 80A(2)(iv) (first place paragraph (iv) occurs) £9,706 £9,978
Regulation 80A(2)(i) (second place paragraph (i) occurs) £7.27 £7.08
Regulation 80A(2)(ii) (second place paragraph (ii) occurs) £7.08 £6.89
Regulation 80A(2)(iii) (second place paragraph (iii) occurs) £7.13 £6.94
Regulation 80A(2)(iv) (second place paragraph (iv) occurs) £7.20 £7.01
Regulation 80A(3)(i) (first place paragraph (i) occurs) £7,689 £7,904
Regulation 80A(3)(ii) (first place paragraph (ii) occurs) £11,736 £12,065
Regulation 80A(3)(iii) (first place paragraph (iii) occurs) £9,950 £10,229
Regulation 80A(3)(iv) (first place paragraph (iv) occurs) £9,179 £9,436
Regulation 80A(3)(i) (second place paragraph (i) occurs) £7.27 £7.08
Regulation 80A(3)(ii) (second place paragraph (ii) occurs) £7.08 £6.89
Regulation 80A(3)(iii) (second place paragraph (iii) occurs) £7.13 £6.94
Regulation 80A(3)(iv) (second place paragraph (iv) occurs) £7.20 £7.01
Regulation 80B(2)(i) (first place paragraph (i) occurs) £9,640 £9,910
Regulation 80B(2)(ii) (first place paragraph (ii) occurs) £13,815 £14,202
Regulation 80B(2)(iii) (first place paragraph (iii) occurs) £12,374 £12,720
Regulation 80B(2)(iv) (first place paragraph (iv) occurs) £11,064 £11,374
Regulation 80B(2)(i) (second place paragraph (i) occurs) £4.551 £4.431
Regulation 80B(2)(ii) (second place paragraph (ii) occurs) £4.867 £4.736
Regulation 80B(2)(iii) (second place paragraph (iii) occurs) £4.747 £4.621
Regulation 80B(2)(iv) (second place paragraph (iv) occurs) £4.654 £4.531
Regulation 80B(2)(i) (third place paragraph (i) occurs) £7.27 £7.08 Regulation
80B(2)(ii) (third place paragraph (ii) occurs) £7.08 £6.89 Regulation
80B(2)(iii) (third place paragraph (iii) occurs) £7.13 £6.94 Regulation
80B(2)(iv) (third place paragraph (iv) occurs) £7.20 £7.01 Regulation
80B(3)(a) £5,534 £5,689 Regulation 80B(3)(b) £9,709 £9,981 Regulation
80B(3)(c) £8,268 £8,499 Regulation 80B(3)(d) £6,958 £7,153 Regulation
80B(4)(i) (first place paragraph (i) occurs) £9,191 £9,448 Regulation
80B(4)(ii) (first place paragraph (ii) occurs) £12,947 £13,310 Regulation
80B(4)(iii) (first place paragraph (iii) occurs) £11,290 £11,606 Regulation
80B(4)(iv) (first place paragraph (iv) occurs) £10,576 £10,872 Regulation
80B(4)(i) (second place paragraph (i) occurs) £4.513 £4.394 Regulation
80B(4)(ii) (second place paragraph (ii) occurs) £4.785 £4.656 Regulation
80B(4)(iii) (second place paragraph (iii) occurs) £4.646 £4.523 Regulation
80B(4)(iv) (second place paragraph (iv) occurs) £4.608 £4.485 Regulation
80B(4)(i) (third place paragraph (i) occurs) £7.27 £7.08 Regulation 80B(4)(ii)
(third place paragraph (ii) occurs) £7.08 £6.89 Regulation 80B(4)(iii) (third
place paragraph (iii) occurs) £7.13 £6.94 Regulation 80B(4)(iv) (third place
paragraph (iv) occurs) £7.20 £7.01 Regulation 80B(5)(a) £5,085 £5,227
Regulation 80B(5)(b) £8,841 £9,089 Regulation 80B(5)(c) £7,184 £7,385
Regulation 80B(5)(d) £6,470 £6,651 Regulation 80C(2) £4,106 £4,221 Regulation
80C(2) £4.63 £4.51 Regulation 81(5)(a) £69 £71 Regulation 81(5)(b) £134 £138
Regulation 81(5)(c) £144 £148 Regulation 81(5)(d) £104 £107 Regulation
87(4)(a) £69 £71 Regulation 87(4)(b) £134 £138 Regulation 87(4)(c) £144 £148
Regulation 87(4)(d) £104 £107 Regulation 105(1)(a) £3,482 £3,579 Regulation
105(1)(b) £6,303 £6,479 Regulation 105(1)(c) £5,364 £5,514 Regulation
105(1)(d) £4,501 £4,627 Regulation 105(2)(a) £3,149 £3,237 Regulation
105(2)(b) £5,739 £5,900 Regulation 105(2)(c) £4,663 £4,794 Regulation
105(2)(d) £4,165 £4,282 Regulation 105(3)(a) £3,496 £3,594 Regulation
105(3)(b) £6,310 £6,487 Regulation 105(3)(c) £5,368 £5,518 Regulation
105(3)(d) £4,509 £4,635 Regulation 105(4)(a) £3,172 £3,261 Regulation
105(4)(b) £5,744 £5,905 Regulation 105(4)(c) £4,667 £4,798 Regulation
105(4)(d) £4,174 £4,291 Regulation 105(5)(a) £3,597 £3,698 Regulation
105(5)(b) £6,310 £6,487 Regulation 105(5)(c) £5,375 £5,526 Regulation
105(5)(d) £4,526 £4,653 Regulation 105(6)(a) £3,304 £3,397 Regulation
105(6)(b) £5,747 £5,908 Regulation 105(6)(c) £4,670 £4,801 Regulation
105(6)(d) £4,207 £4,325 Regulation 105(6A)(a) £3,597 £3,698 Regulation
105(6A)(b) £6,308 £6,485 Regulation 105(6A)(c) £5,374 £5,524 Regulation
105(6A)(d) £4,524 £4,651 Regulation 105(6B)(a) £3,304 £3,397 Regulation
105(6B)(b) £5,747 £5,908 Regulation 105(6B)(c) £4,669 £4,800 Regulation
105(6B)(d) £4,206 £4,324 Regulation 105(6C)(a) £3,597 £3,698 Regulation
105(6C)(b) £6,308 £6,485 Regulation 105(6C)(c) £5,374 £5,524 Regulation
105(6C)(d) £4,524 £4,651 Regulation 105(6D)(a) £3,304 £3,397 Regulation
105(6D)(b) £5,747 £5,908 Regulation 105(6D)(c) £4,669 £4,800 Regulation
105(6D)(d) £4,206 £4,324 Regulation 147(6)(a) £25,575 £26,291 Regulation
157G(1)(a) (first place paragraph (a) occurs) £8,171 £8,400 Regulation
157G(1)(b) (first place paragraph (b) occurs) £12,667 £13,022 Regulation
157G(1)(c) (first place paragraph (c) occurs) £11,116 £11,427 Regulation
157G(1)(d) (first place paragraph (d) occurs) £9,706 £9,978 Regulation
157G(1)(a) (second place paragraph (a) occurs) £7.27 £7.08 Regulation
157G(1)(b) (second place paragraph (b) occurs) £7.08 £6.89 Regulation
157G(1)(c) (second place paragraph (c) occurs) £7.13 £6.94 Regulation
157G(1)(d) (second place paragraph (d) occurs) £7.20 £7.01 Regulation
157(G)(3) £4,106 £4,221 Regulation 157(H)(3) £4,106 £4,221 Regulation
157J(1)(a) £3,597 £3,698 Regulation 157J(1)(b) £6,308 £6,485 Regulation
157J(1)(c) £5,374 £5,524 Regulation 157J(1)(d) £4,524 £4,651 Regulation
166(2)(a) £25,575 £26,291 Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(2)(a)(i) £7.27 £7.08
Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(2)(a)(i) £2,458 £2,524 Schedule 4, Paragraph
9A(2)(a)(ii) £7.08 £6.89 Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(2)(a)(ii) £2,524 £2,594
Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(2)(a)(iii) £7.13 £6.94 Schedule 4, Paragraph
9A(2)(a)(iii) £2,507 £2,575 Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(2)(a)(iv) £7.20 £7.01
Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(2)(a)(iv) £2,482 £2,549 Schedule 4, Paragraph
9A(3)(a)(i) £7.27 £7.08 Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(3)(a)(ii) £7.08 £6.89
Schedule 4, Paragraph 9A(3)(a)(iii) £7.13 £6.94 Schedule 4, Paragraph
9A(3)(a)(iv) £7.20 £7.01

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend various legislation which makes provision about, and
in connection with student finance.

  These Regulations come into force on 16th February 2023. But, subject to the
savings in Part 5, some of the amendments made by these Regulations apply only
in relation to a course which begins on or after 1st August 2023 (a “new
course”), an academic year beginning on or after 1st August 2023 (a “new
academic year”) or a new academic year of a course which begins on or after
1st August 2022 and before 1st August 2023 (an “existing course”). In
particular:     a     the amendments made by the provisions specified in
regulation  2(5)  apply in relation to new academic years only;         b
the amendments made by the provisions specified in regulation  2(7)  apply in
relation to new courses and new academic years of existing courses;         c
the amendments made by provisions specified in regulation  2(8)  apply in
relation to new courses only.

  Part 2 of these Regulations amends the Education (Student Support)
Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/1986 ) (“the SSR 2011”) to:     a     update the
rules determining the amount of support that a student is entitled to if they
become eligible for support during the course of an academic year;         b
change the eligibility requirements for students who are in certain protection
based categories (such as refugees and their family members, persons granted
stateless leave and persons with Calais leave), so that they may qualify for
support if they are ordinarily resident in England on the day on which the
first term of the first academic year of their course actually begins;
c     update the categories of students who may be eligible for support to
include certain family members of persons who are granted leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom under an Afghan or Ukraine related immigration
scheme;         d     to change the payment rates for the academic year
beginning on 1st August 2023;         e     to allow certain new initial
teacher training courses for further education teachers, and also courses
leading to higher technical qualifications approved by the Institute for
Apprenticeships and Technical Education, to attract student finance;         f
to correct a number of minor errors made in earlier amendments to the SSR
2011;         g     to make minor drafting and consequential amendments to the
SSR 2011.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes corresponding amendments to other student
finance legislation.

  Part 4 of these Regulations:     a     amends the Education (Postgraduate
Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016 and the Education (Postgraduate
Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student Loans) (Repayment)
(Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations 2018 to set out the circumstances in
which students cease to be eligible students (for the purposes of student
finance under those Regulations);         b     makes minor amendments to the
Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010;
c     makes minor amendments to the Higher Education Short Course Loans
Regulations 2022. The amendments include the correction of an error made in
the Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) (No. 2)
Regulation 2022. This error was identified by the Joint Committee on Statutory
Instruments in their Sixth Report of Session 2022/23.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
anticipated.

