Title: The Social Security Benefits (Claims and Payments) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-05-22
Description: These Regulations amend paragraph 6 of Schedule 8A to the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987 (S.R. 1987 No. 465) (“the 1987 Regulations”) and paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (S.R. 2016 No. 220) (“the 2016 Regulations”). These paragraphs contain provisions under which the Department for Communities may make deductions from benefit in respect of arrears for fuel costs and ongoing consumption of fuel to pay the fuel supplier directly.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/67

## The Social Security Benefits (Claims and Payments) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   19th April 2023

  Coming into operation   10th May 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 5(1)(q) and 165(1), (4) and (6)
of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992  and vested
in it.           In accordance with section 150(1)(b) of the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, the Social Security Advisory
Committee has agreed that the proposals in respect of these Regulations should
not be referred to it.

### Citation, commencement, application and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security Benefits (Claims and
Payments) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and come into
operation on 10th May 2023.

1.2

These Regulations apply in relation to an application that is made on or after
the date on which these Regulations come into operation—

1.2.a

for a deduction for a fuel item under paragraph 6 (Fuel Costs) of Schedule 8A
to the 1987 Regulations or paragraph 8 (Fuel Costs) of Schedule 5 to the 2016
Regulations;

1.2.b

for supersession in relation to a deduction for a fuel item that is in place
under either paragraph on or after that date,

and to any decision made on such an application.

1.3

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1987 Regulations ” means the Social Security (Claims and Payments)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987 ;           “ the 2016 Regulations ” means
the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and
Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 ;           “ fuel item ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 6
of Schedule 8A to the 1987 Regulations or paragraph 8(8) of Schedule 5 to the
2016 Regulations;             “ supersession ” means a supersession decision
under section 11 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 .

### Amendment of the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations

2

2.1

The Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987
are amended in accordance with paragraph 2.

2.2

In paragraph 6 (Fuel Costs) of Schedule 8A (deductions from benefits and
direct payments to third parties)—

2.2.a

In sub-paragraph (1), for “paragraph (8)” substitute  “paragraphs (3A) and
(8)” .

2.2.b

In sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “equal to” substitute  “not more than” .

2.2.c

After sub-paragraph (2), insert—

2.2.c.3A

The Department may only include an amount under sub-paragraph (2)(b) in the
amount deductible if—

2.2.c.3A.a

an application for a determination under sub-paragraph (1) or (4)(a) is made
by the person or body to whom payment is due; and

2.2.c.3A.b

except where the application is for a reduction in the amount deductible, the
beneficiary consents to the application.

.

### Amendment of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and Payment) Regulations

3

3.1

The Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and
Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 are amended in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5.

3.2

In paragraph 8 (Fuel Costs) of Schedule 5 (deductions from benefits and direct
payments to third parties)

3.3

In sub-paragraph (3), for “(5) and (6)” substitute  “(4A), (5) and (6)” .

3.4

In sub-paragraph (4)(b), for “equal to” substitute  “not more than” .

3.5

After sub-paragraph (4), insert—

3.5.4A

The Department may only make deductions under sub-paragraph (4)(b) if—

3.5.4A.a

an application for deductions is made by the person to whom the payment is
due; and

3.5.4A.b

except where the application is for a reduction in the amount of a deduction,
the claimant consents to the application.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 19th
April 2023       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend paragraph 6 of Schedule 8A to the Social Security
(Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987 ( S.R. 1987 No. 465
) (“ the 1987 Regulations ”) and paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to the Universal
Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment
and Support Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 220 ) (“ the 2016 Regulations ”). These paragraphs
contain provisions under which the Department for Communities may make
deductions from benefit in respect of arrears for fuel costs and ongoing
consumption of fuel to pay the fuel supplier directly.

  Under regulation 1, these Regulations apply in relation to an application,
made on or after the date on which these Regulations come into operation, for
a deduction for fuel costs, or for a supersession of a deduction for fuel
costs that is in place on the date these Regulations come into operation, and
to any decision made on such an application.

  Regulations 2 and 3 make amendments to paragraph 6 of Schedule 8A to the
1987 Regulations and paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to the 2016 Regulations so that
a new deduction for ongoing consumption of fuel, or an application for an
increase to a deduction for ongoing consumption, may only be made following an
application by the fuel supplier and with the claimant’s consent. Fuel
suppliers may still apply for a deduction for arrears of fuel costs only
without the claimant’s consent.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as no,
or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

