Title: The Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement Pensions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-01-08
Description: These Regulations amend regulation 10 of the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979 (S.R. 1979 No. 243), which sets out the conditions that a person must meet to be entitled to a Category D retirement pension. One of those conditions is a condition of residence in Northern Ireland on the person’s 80th birthday or the date of the claim, if later.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/192

## The Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement Pensions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   28th November 2023

  Coming into operation   31st December 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 78(3) and 171(1), (3) and (4) of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and
Retirement Pensions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall
come into operation on 31st December 2023.

### Amendment of the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement Pensions) Regulations

2

In regulation 10 of the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement
Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979  (conditions for an entitlement
to a Category D retirement pension)—

2.a

the existing text becomes paragraph (1);

2.b

after that paragraph insert—

2.b.2

Paragraph 1(b) does not apply where, on the day or date determined in
accordance with that paragraph, the person is ordinarily resident in an EEA
state or Switzerland and one of the following provisions applies to that
person—

2.b.2.a

the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland, signed on
1st February 2019 ;

2.b.2.b

the Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the Swiss Confederation on Citizens’ Rights following the Withdrawal of
the United Kingdom from the European Union and the Free Movement of Persons
Agreement, signed on 25th February 2019 ;

2.b.2.c

the Agreement on the Withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy
Community, signed on 24th January 2020 ;

2.b.2.d

the Agreement on arrangements between Iceland, the Principality of
Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the
European Union, the EEA Agreement and other agreements applicable between the
United Kingdom and the EEA EFTA States by virtue of the United Kingdom’s
membership of the European Union, signed on 28th January 2020 ;

2.b.2.e

the Protocol on Social Security Coordination to the Trade and Cooperation
Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, of
the one part, and the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community,
of the other part, signed on 30th December 2020 ;

2.b.2.f

the Convention on Social Security Coordination between the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Swiss Confederation, signed on 9th
September 2021 ;

2.b.2.g

the Convention on Social Security Coordination between Iceland, the
Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed on 30th June 2023 .

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 28th
November 2023       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend regulation 10 of the Social Security (Widow’s
Benefit and Retirement Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979 ( S.R.
1979 No. 243 ), which sets out the conditions that a person must meet to be
entitled to a Category D retirement pension. One of those conditions is a
condition of residence in Northern Ireland on the person’s 80th birthday or
the date of the claim, if later.

  Regulation 10 is amended so that the condition of residence on that date
does not apply if the person is resident in an EEA State or Switzerland, and
one of the provisions listed in new paragraph (2) applies to them. Those
provisions prevent a person being refused entitlement to a benefit solely on
the basis that they are not resident in Northern Ireland.

