Title: The Tenancy Information Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: These Regulations set out the form of notice and information a landlord must give a tenant relating to the granting of a tenancy and any variation of that tenancy, within 28 days of such granting or such variation.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/19

## The Tenancy Information Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Landlord And Tenant

  Made   16th February 2023

  Coming into operation   1st April 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 4A, 4B and 72(1) of the Private
Tenancies (Northern Ireland) Order 2006  and Section 2 and Schedule 1 to the
Private Tenancies Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Tenancy Information Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and come into operation on 1st April 2023.

1.2

In these Regulations-

      “ the Order ” means the Private Tenancies (Northern Ireland) Order 2006;
“ the Act ” means the Private Tenancies Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

### Landlord’s notice relating to the granting of a private tenancy

2

A notice under Article 4A(2) of the Order and paragraph 1(2) of Schedule 1 to
the Act shall be in the form set out in Schedule 1.

### Landlord’s notice relating to the variation of a private tenancy

3

A notice under Article 4B(2) of the Order and paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 1 to
the Act shall be in the form set out in Schedule 2.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 16th
February 2023       (L.S.)   David Polley   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

LANDLORD’S NOTICE RELATING TO THE GRANTING OF A PRIVATE TENANCY

Regulation 2

Article 4A of the Private Tenancies (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 and Section
2 and Schedule 1 to the Private Tenancies Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

This Notice must be given to the tenant free of charge and within 28 days of
the granting of the tenancy.

##### NOTES

###### General

1

Your tenancy is not a protected or statutory tenancy within the meaning of the
Rent (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 as amended by Article 56 of the Private
Tenancies (Northern Ireland) Order 2006. You have the protection of the legal
rights described below. However, other terms and conditions of your tenancy
are a matter for you and your landlord.

###### Repairs

2

Your landlord is obliged to keep in repair all gas fittings, flues and
installations. Your landlord must also provide you with a copy of the required
safety checks in relation to gas appliances and flues. In some circumstances,
your landlord may also display a copy of any safety certificate prominently in
the property. Responsibility for other repairs is determined by your tenancy
agreement. You can get help from the environmental health department of your
local council if repairs are not carried out. See Appendix 1 (below) for more
information.

###### Access for repairs

3

By law, you must let your landlord (or their representatives or contractors)
have reasonable access to the property to carry out repairs or an inspection.
Your landlord should give you reasonable notice before this happens.

###### Fitness for human habitation

4

Your landlord is responsible for ensuring your property is safe. If:

Your property was built before 1945, and Your tenancy began on or after 2007,
and The property is not a prescribed dwelling-house, and It has no current
certificate of fitness then, you can ask your local council to inspect it to
ensure it is fit for human habitation.

Where a rented property does not meet the fitness standard, it is subject to
rent control through the Rent Officer for Northern Ireland.

###### Receipts

5

All private tenants have a legal right to a receipt for any cash payment in
relation to their tenancy. The receipt should detail:

The amount paid, The date it was paid, What the payment was for, If an amount
remains outstanding, the amount, or If payment was made in full, that no
amount remains outstanding.

You should get a receipt when you make the payment or as soon as reasonably
possible afterwards. Your local council has powers to take legal action when
this does not happen.

###### Notice to Quit

6

To end a tenancy a written ‘Notice to Quit’ must be given by the landlord or
you (the tenant), to the other party, except in the case of a fixed term
tenancy, where it ends as agreed. The following tables show the minimum period
of notice your landlord must give you, and you must give your landlord,
depending on the length of the tenancy.

Minimum period of notice a landlord must give a tenant Length of Tenancy
Notice to Quit from landlord Not more than 12 months No less than 4 weeks’
written notice More than 12 months but not more than 10 years No less than 8
weeks’ written notice More than 10 years No less than 12 weeks’ written notice

Minimum period of notice a tenant must give a landlord Length of Tenancy
Notice to Quit from tenant Not more than 10 years No less than 4 weeks’
written notice More than 10 years No less than 12 weeks’ written notice

###### Illegal eviction and harassment

7

Your landlord, or anyone acting on their behalf, is not allowed to harass you
or your household to try to make you leave or illegally evict you. This could
include:

Entering your home without permission, unless in an emergency, Removing your
belongings, or Cutting off essential services, such as water or electricity.

Your local council has powers to take legal action if this happens.

###### Legal process for eviction

8

You cannot be evicted from your property until your landlord follows the
correct legal process and gets a possession order from the Court. However, you
may be liable for legal costs incurred if a possession order is issued.

###### Help with paying rent and rates

9

You are entitled to apply for help with paying your rent and rates.

You may be able to get help with your housing costs through Universal Credit.
Universal Credit is a social security benefit paid by the Department for
Communities. You can make a claim online (universal-credit.service.gov.uk). If
you are having difficulty with paying your rent, you may be able to get a
Discretionary Housing Payment. More information is available from nihe.gov.uk.
If you need help with rates, you can apply for this through the Rate Rebate
Scheme. For information on this see the NI Direct website (nidirect.gov). Some
tenants are eligible to get Housing Benefit, a social security benefit paid by
the Housing Executive.

For further information contact your local Jobs and Benefits office or Housing
Executive office.

###### Further advice

10

If you need independent advice or help with any problems you are having in
relation to your tenancy, contact either:

Your local council’s environmental health department, Housing Rights, phone:
028 9024 5640, Advice NI, phone: 0800 915 4604, or A Solicitor.

###### Appendix 1 – Repairs

A landlord and tenant can agree to divide responsibility for repairs as they
wish, except for gas appliances and furniture safety, which are the
responsibility of the landlord.

However, where a tenancy began after 1st April 2007 and where there is not a
clear division of responsibility for repairs, the law imposes what are known
as ‘default terms’.

This means that if a tenancy agreement either does not refer to repairing
responsibilities, or does not describe these in enough detail, the following
will apply:

The landlord is responsible for: Repairing the structure and exterior of the
property, including exterior paintwork, drains, gutters and pipes, Repairing
the interior of the property other than matters covered under tenant
responsibilities (see below), Repairing any installations for the supply and
use of water, gas, electricity and sanitation including baths, sinks, wash-
hand basins and toilets, Repairing any appliances provided by the landlord,
Repairing any installations for heating and water heating, Any fixtures,
fittings and furnishings provided by the landlord, Keeping in good repair any
common areas or areas required for access, and Keeping any area required for
access adequately lit and safe to use.

The tenant is responsible for: Taking proper care of the property as a good
tenant, Fixing any damage caused by tenants, household members or guests,
Keeping the interior in reasonable decorative order, and Not altering the
property without the landlord’s permission.

Responsibility for other repairs depends on what the landlord and tenant agree
themselves.

A landlord is not responsible for maintaining gas appliances which the tenant
will take with them at the end of the tenancy.

  LANDLORD’S NOTICE RELATING TO THE VARIATION OF A PRIVATE TENANCY

Regulation 3

  Article 4B of the Private Tenancies (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 and
Section 2 and Schedule 1 to the Private Tenancies Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

  This Notice must be given to the tenant free of charge and within 28 days of
the date of the variation .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations set out the form of notice and information a landlord must
give a tenant relating to the granting of a tenancy and any variation of that
tenancy, within 28 days of such granting or such variation.

  Regulation 1 relates to citation, commencement and interpretation.

  Regulation 2 prescribes the form of notice to be given to a tenant by a
landlord relating to the granting of a private tenancy.

  Regulation 3 prescribes the form of notice to be given to a tenant by a
landlord relating to the variation of a private tenancy.

  Schedule 1 sets out the particulars and information to be contained in a
landlord’s notice relating to the granting of a private tenancy.

  Schedule 2 sets out the information to be contained in a landlord’s notice
relating to the variation of a private tenancy.

