Title: The Justice (Sexual Offences and Trafficking Victims) (2022 Act) (Commencement No.2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-11-24
Description: This Order brings Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Justice (Sexual Offences and Trafficking Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 into operation on 28th September 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/142

## The Justice (Sexual Offences and Trafficking Victims) (2022 Act) (Commencement No.2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

Justice

Made 21st September 2023

The Department of Justice makes the following order in exercise of the power
conferred by section 30(2) and (3) of the Justice (Sexual Offences and
Trafficking Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 .

### Citation and Interpretation


1

This Order may be cited as the Justice (Sexual Offences and Trafficking
Victims) (2022 Act) (Commencement No. 2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023.

2

In this Order “ the Act ” means the Justice (Sexual Offences and Trafficking
Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

### Appointed Day


3

Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Act come into operation on 28 th
September 2023.

### Transitional Provisions


4

Section 19 (Serious sexual offences: exclusion of public from court) of the
Act does not apply-

4.a

in relation to the Crown Court, to any trial where the accused (or, if more
than one, any of the accused) was arraigned before 28 th  September 2023; and

4.b

in relation to the Court of Appeal-

4.b.i

to any hearing of an application for leave to appeal, or of an application for
leave to refer a sentence under section 36 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988,
where the application was made before 28 th  September 2023;

4.b.ii

to any hearing of an appeal where the appeal was made either with leave
granted on an application made before 28 th  September 2023 or by virtue of a
certificate granted by the judge of the court of trial before that date; and

4.b.iii

to any hearing of a reference under section 36 of the Criminal Justice Act
1988 where the reference was made with leave granted on an application made
before 28 th  September 2023.

5

For the purposes of Article 4(b) and for the avoidance of doubt, where an
application for leave to appeal is refused by a single judge and the
application is renewed to the Court of Appeal, the date of the application for
leave to appeal is the date of the original application and not the date of
the renewed application.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 21st September
2023 Richard Pengelly CB A senior officer of the Department of Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order brings Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Justice (Sexual
Offences and Trafficking Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 into operation
on 28th September 2023.

Chapter 2 of Part 1-

extends the current lifelong anonymity of the victim of a sexual offence to
provide for their anonymity for 25 years after death. Applications can be made
to the court to discharge or modify reporting restrictions, including to
reduce or increase the period of 25 years;

increases the penalty for breach of anonymity of the victim to a maximum of
six months imprisonment or a fine or both;

provides for the anonymity of suspects in sexual offence cases up to the point
of charge. Where the suspect is not subsequently charged, then the anonymity
will be protected during their lifetime and for 25 years after death. The
provisions allow for application to be made to the court to dis-apply or
modify reporting restrictions, including to reduce or increase the period of
25 years;

creates a new offence of breach of anonymity of the suspect with a maximum
penalty of six months imprisonment or a fine or both; and

excludes the public from hearings of serious sexual offence cases in the Crown
Court and those proceeded by appeal to the Court of Appeal.

Section 19 (Serious sexual offences: exclusion of public from court) is
subject to the transitional provisions set out in Articles 4 and 5 of this
Order which provides that section 19 does not apply to-

Crown Court trials in which the arraignment of the accused took place before
28 th  September 2023; and

to hearings of applications for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeal where
application was made before 28 th  September 2023 and to appeal hearings where
leave to appeal was granted either on application for leave made before 28 th
September 2023 or by a certificate granted by the judge of the court of trial
before that date.

Chapter 3 of Part 1-

provides that the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland must publish
guidance about the effect of Part 1 of the Act; and such other matters as the
Department of Justice considers appropriate as to the criminal law or
procedure relating to Part 1 in Northern Ireland;

specifies that guidance must include information for the training of personnel
in any public body that has functions within the Criminal Justice System in
Northern Ireland that the Department considers appropriate on the effect of
Part 1; and the sort of information to be obtained from them for the purpose
of the assessment of the operation of the Act;

provides that a person exercising public functions to whom the guidance
relates must have regard to it in the exercise of those functions and the
Department must keep any issued guidance under review and revise that guidance
in light of review. The guidance must be published.

