Title: The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-10-28
Description: The Public Service Pensions Act 2013 (c. 25) (“the 2013 Act”) makes provision, and confers further powers to make provision (in the form of “scheme regulations” as defined in section 1 of that Act) about the establishment of public service pension schemes. The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013 (S.I. 2013/2356, “the 2013 Regulations”) are the scheme Regulations establishing the successor local government pension scheme (“the 2014 Scheme”) to the pension scheme constituted by the Local Government Pension Scheme (Administration Regulations) 2008, The Local Government Pensions Scheme (Benefits, Membership and Contributions) Regulations 2007 and the Local Government Pension Scheme (Transitional Provisions Regulations 2008) (“the 2008 Scheme”). The Local Government Pension Scheme (Transitional Provisions, Savings and Amendment) Regulations 2014 (S.I. 2014/525, “the 2014 Regulations) provide transitional protection (“the statutory underpin”) for 2008 Scheme members including, in particular, for members who were within 10 years of their normal pension age under the 2008 Scheme. Similar transitional protection was made under the 2013 Act for members of judicial pension schemes and members of firefighters pension schemes. The transitional protection for members of the judicial and firefighters schemes was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between members of the respective schemes on the basis of age. Although the statutory underpin was not subject to legal action, all schemes established under the 2013 Act are subject to review. These Regulations do this in relation to the 2014 Scheme.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/972

## The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2023

    Public Service Pensions, England And Wales

  Made   5th September 2023

  Laid before Parliament   8th September 2023

  Coming into force   1st October 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(c), 3 and 8(1)(a) and (2)(a) of,
and paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act
2013 ; and sections 78, 80(1), 81(1), 83(1), 84(1) and 129(1) of the Public
Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 .       In accordance with
section 21(1) of the Public Service Pensions Act 2013, the Secretary of State
has consulted such persons (or the representatives of such persons) as
appeared to the Secretary of State likely to be affected by these Regulations.
In accordance with section 3(5) of the Public Service Pensions Act 2013, the
Secretary of State has obtained the consent of the Treasury before making
these Regulations.           These Regulations are made in accordance with
Treasury Directions made under section 85 of the Public Service Pensions and
Judicial Offices Act 2022.

### General provision

#### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Local Government Pension Scheme
(Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st October 2023.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.4

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2013 Regulations ” means the Local Government Pension Scheme
Regulations 2013 ;           “ the 2014 Regulations ” means the Local
Government Pension Scheme (Transitional Provisions, Savings and Amendment)
Regulations 2014 .

### Amendments relating to the statutory underpin

#### Amendment of the Local Government Pension Scheme (Transitional Provisions, Savings and Amendment) Regulations 2014

2

2.1

The 2014 Regulations are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 1 (citation, extent, commencement and application)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (6)—

2.2.a.i

after the definition of “the Earlier Regulations” insert—

      “ eligible member ” has the meaning given in regulation 4A(2);
“ final assumed benefits ” means the benefits calculated in accordance with
regulation 4K;           “final guarantee amount” is the amount by which the
eligible member’s final assumed benefits are exceeded by their final underpin
amount (if at all) in respect of a pension account;           “ final underpin
amount ” means the amount calculated in accordance with regulation 4L;
“ final underpin date ” has the meaning given in regulation 4H(1);           “
provisional assumed benefits ” means the benefits calculated in accordance
with regulation 4I;           “ provisional underpin amount ” means the amount
calculated in accordance with regulation 4J;           “ PSP Directions 2022 ”
means the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and
Information) Directions 2022 ;           “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public
Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022;

;

2.2.a.ii

after the definition of “public service pension scheme”, insert—

      “ underpin date ” has the meaning given in regulation 4G;           “
underpin period ” has the meaning given in regulation 4A(3)

.

2.2.b

after paragraph (6), insert—

2.2.b.7

In regulations 4A to 4V, a reference to actuarial guidance issued by the
Secretary of State has the meaning given in Schedule 1 to the 2013
Regulations.

2.2.b.8

Where these Regulations refer to the PSP Directions 2022, a reference to
“scheme manager” in those Directions is to be read as “administering
authority”.

2.3

Omit regulation 4 (statutory underpin).

2.4

Before regulation 5, insert—

########## Statutory underpin: general

2.4.4A

2.4.4A.1

This regulation and regulations 4B to 4V (provisions relating to the statutory
underpin) apply in relation to an eligible member’s remediable service  during
the underpin period.

2.4.4A.2

An “eligible member” is a person who—

2.4.4A.2.a

has remediable service in relation to the 2014 Scheme; or

2.4.4A.2.b

has transferred remediable service into the 2014 Scheme from—

2.4.4A.2.b.i

a Chapter 1 scheme ,

2.4.4A.2.b.ii

a judicial scheme , or

2.4.4A.2.b.iii

another local government scheme .

2.4.4A.3

The “underpin period” is the period—

2.4.4A.3.a

beginning with 1st April 2014; and

2.4.4A.3.b

ending with the earlier of—

2.4.4A.3.b.i

31st March 2022, and

2.4.4A.3.b.ii

the date on which the eligible member attains—

2.4.4A.3.b.ii.aa

the normal retirement age applicable to them under the 2008 Scheme, or

2.4.4A.3.b.ii.bb

where the person was not a member of the 2008 Scheme, the age of 65.

########## Statutory underpin: retirement, redundancy, ill health

2.4.4B

2.4.4B.1

This regulation applies in relation to an eligible member whose final underpin
date is that in regulation 4H(1)(a), (c), (d) or (e) (statutory underpin:
final underpin date).

2.4.4B.2

The pension account to which the final underpin date relates is to be
increased by any final guarantee amount calculated in relation to that pension
account.

2.4.4B.3

The pension account is to be increased on the day after the eligible member’s
final underpin date.

########## Statutory underpin: flexible retirement

2.4.4C

2.4.4C.1

This regulation applies in relation to an eligible member whose final underpin
date is that in regulation 4H(1)(b) (statutory underpin: final underpin date –
flexible retirement).

2.4.4C.2

The pension account to which the final underpin date relates (“the pension
account”) is to be increased by a percentage of the final guarantee amount
that is equal to the percentage of the retirement pension that the eligible
member takes under regulation 30(6) of the 2013 Regulations.

2.4.4C.3

On each occasion where the amount of pension taken by the eligible member
under regulation 30(6) of the 2013 Regulations is less than 100% of the
member’s relevant pension, at the next occurring final underpin date (“the
subsequent final underpin date”), a further calculation of the eligible
member’s final assumed benefits and final underpin amount relating to the
flexible retirement is to be completed in accordance with regulations 4K and
4L.

2.4.4C.4

Where, on the subsequent final underpin date, the eligible member’s final
assumed benefits are exceeded by their final underpin amount, the pension
account is to be increased by a percentage of the final guarantee amount that
is equal to the percentage of the original retirement pension that the
eligible member took on the subsequent final underpin date.

2.4.4C.5

Where paragraph (2) or (4) apply, the pension account is to be increased on
the day after the eligible member’s final underpin date or subsequent final
underpin date, as the case may be.

2.4.4C.6

In paragraph (4), “ original retirement pension ” means the amount of the
eligible member’s retirement pension as at the day of the eligible member’s
first final underpin date.

2.4.4C.7

Paragraphs (8) to (10) apply where the eligible member—

2.4.4C.7.a

began their reduced working hours or grade of employment during the underpin
period; and

2.4.4C.7.b

accrued benefits—

2.4.4C.7.b.i

after taking payment of a retirement pension under regulation 30(6), but

2.4.4C.7.b.ii

before the end of the underpin period.

2.4.4C.8

At the eligible member’s next occurring underpin date (the “additional
underpin date”), the eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits and
provisional underpin amount are calculated in accordance with regulations 4I
and 4J, but—

2.4.4C.8.a

the underpin period for the purpose of those calculations begins with the day
on which the eligible member’s reduced hours or grade began; and

2.4.4C.8.b

those calculations are not to include any period which has already been used
in the calculation of a final guarantee amount in relation to the pension
account.

2.4.4C.9

At the eligible member’s next occurring final underpin date (which may be on
the same day as the additional underpin date, or after), the eligible member’s
final assumed benefits and final underpin amount in relation to their pension
account are calculated in accordance with regulations 4K and 4L but using the
provisional assumed benefits and provisional underpin amounts as provided for
in paragraph (8).

2.4.4C.10

Where the eligible member’s final assumed benefits, calculated in accordance
with paragraph (9), are exceeded by their final underpin amount—

2.4.4C.10.a

where the eligible member’s next occurring final underpin date is that in
regulation 4H(1)(a) to (e), the pension account is to be increased on the day
after that date by an amount equal to the difference;

2.4.4C.10.b

where the eligible member’s next occurring final underpin date is that in
regulation 4H(1)(f), regulation 4D(2) applies;

2.4.4C.10.c

where the eligible member’s next occurring final underpin date is that in
regulation 4H(1)(g) or (h), regulation 4E(2) applies;

2.4.4C.10.d

where the eligible member’s next occurring final underpin date is that in
regulation 4H(1)(i), regulation 4F(2) applies.

2.4.4C.11

In this regulation “relevant pension” is the pension built up in the 2014
Scheme before the member’s first final underpin date.

########## Statutory underpin: lump sum payments

2.4.4D

2.4.4D.1

This regulation applies to an eligible member whose final underpin date is
that in regulation 4H(1)(f) (statutory underpin: final underpin date – lump
sum payment).

2.4.4D.2

Where this regulation applies the eligible member’s pension account is not to
be increased by any final guarantee amount relating to the pension account .

########## Statutory underpin: transfers

2.4.4E

2.4.4E.1

This regulation applies to an eligible member whose final underpin date is
that in regulation 4H(1)(g) or (h) (statutory underpin: final underpin date –
transfer to a different scheme).

2.4.4E.2

Where this regulation applies—

2.4.4E.2.a

no final guarantee amount is to be calculated in relation to the pension
account; and

2.4.4E.2.b

either—

2.4.4E.2.b.i

where regulation 4H(1)(g) applies to the eligible member, regulation 96 of the
2013 Regulations applies (right to payment out of the pension fund), or

2.4.4E.2.b.ii

where regulation 4H(1)(h) applies to the eligible member, regulation 98 of the
2013 Regulations applies (bulk transfer (transfer of undertakings etc.)).

########## Statutory underpin: members taking a repayment of contributions

2.4.4F

2.4.4F.1

This regulation applies in relation to an eligible member whose final underpin
date is that in regulation 4H(i) (statutory underpin: final underpin date –
receipt of repayment under regulation 18 of the 2013 Regulations).

2.4.4F.2

An eligible member to whom this regulation applies is not entitled to a final
guarantee amount in respect of any repaid contributions.

########## Statutory underpin: underpin date

2.4.4G

An eligible member’s underpin date, in relation to a pension account, is the
earliest of—

2.4.4G.a

the last day on which the eligible member is an active member of the 2014
Scheme;

2.4.4G.b

the date on which the eligible member attains—

2.4.4G.b.i

the normal retirement age applicable to the eligible member under the 2008
Scheme, or

2.4.4G.b.ii

where the eligible member was not a member of the 2008 Scheme, the age of 65,
and

2.4.4G.c

where the eligible member elects to receive an immediate payment of all or
part of their pension under regulation 30(6) of the 2013 Regulations, the day
before the date on which the eligible member’s reduced working hours or grade
of employment begins.

########## Statutory underpin: final underpin date

2.4.4H

2.4.4H.1

An eligible member’s final underpin date, in relation to a pension account, is
the earliest of the following dates which occur either at the same time as, or
after, an underpin date applicable to that pension account—

2.4.4H.1.a

the day before the date on which a pension under regulation 30(1), (3) or (5)
of the 2013 Regulations (retirement pension) commences;

2.4.4H.1.b

where the eligible member elects to receive an immediate payment of all or
part of the retirement pension under regulation 30(6) of the 2013 Regulations
(flexible retirement), the day before the date on which the eligible member’s
reduced working hours or grade of employment begins ;

2.4.4H.1.c

the day before the date on which a pension under regulation 30(7) of the 2013
Regulations commences (pension by virtue of dismissal from employment);

2.4.4H.1.d

the day before the date on which a pension under regulation 35(1) of the 2013
Regulations commences (pension on grounds of ill health for active members);

2.4.4H.1.e

the day before the date on which a pension pursuant to a request made under
regulation 38(1) or (4) of the 2013 Regulations commences (pension on grounds
of ill health for deferred members);

2.4.4H.1.f

where the eligible member takes payment of a lump sum under regulation
34(1)(a) or (c) of the 2013 Regulations (trivial commutation) in relation to
the pension, the day before the date used to calculate the sum;

2.4.4H.1.g

where, in accordance with regulation 96(1) of the 2013 Regulations (payment
out of pension fund), the eligible member applies for a transfer under
Chapters 1 or 2 of Part 4ZA of the Pension Schemes Act 1993 , the date used to
calculate the cash equivalent transfer value paid;

2.4.4H.1.h

where a transfer payment is made in respect of the eligible member under
regulation 98 of the 2013 Regulations (bulk transfers), the date used to
calculate the value of the transfer payment; and

2.4.4H.1.i

the date on which the administering authority makes payment to the eligible
member under regulation 18 of the 2013 Regulations relating to the pension
account .

2.4.4H.2

Where the eligible member has had a final underpin date by virtue of paragraph
(1)(b), paragraph (1) subsequently applies as if for “the earliest of the
following dates” there were substituted  “the next occurring of the following
dates” .

########## Statutory underpin: calculation of provisional assumed benefits

2.4.4I

2.4.4I.1

An eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits are calculated by assessing,
at the eligible member’s underpin date, the benefits the eligible member would
have been entitled to under the 2014 Scheme over the underpin period if—

2.4.4I.1.a

the eligible member had paid contributions under regulation 9 of the 2013
Regulations in respect of the underpin period—

2.4.4I.1.a.i

including—

2.4.4I.1.a.i.aa

in respect of any period of absence from work because of illness or injury,
child-related leave or reserve forces service leave;

2.4.4I.1.a.i.bb

where, on the underpin date, the eligible member left active membership with
an entitlement to Tier 1 or Tier 2 benefits under regulation 35(5) or (6)
respectively of the 2013 Regulations, any adjustment under regulation 39 of
those Regulations (calculation of ill-health pension amounts) in respect of
the underpin period;

2.4.4I.1.a.i.cc

in respect of any period of absence from work with no pensionable pay in
consequence of a trade dispute if the eligible member elected to cover that
period by entering into an arrangement under regulation 16 of the 2013
Regulations (additional pension contributions); and

2.4.4I.1.a.i.dd

in respect of any period of absence from work with permission with no
pensionable pay in respect of which the eligible member elected to cover that
period by entering into an arrangement under regulation 16 of the 2013
Regulations, but

2.4.4I.1.a.ii

excluding—

2.4.4I.1.a.ii.aa

any period where the eligible member was not an active member; and

2.4.4I.1.a.ii.bb

any period of unpaid absence from work without permission;

2.4.4I.1.b

the eligible member or their Scheme employer had, in respect of the underpin
period, paid no additional contributions under—

2.4.4I.1.b.i

regulation 16 of the 2013 Regulations, other than additional contributions
paid under that regulation to cover a period of absence from work with no
pensionable pay, as is set out in sub-paragraph (a)(i),

2.4.4I.1.b.ii

regulation 17 of the 2013 Regulations,

2.4.4I.1.b.iii

regulation 25(1) of the Administration Regulations 2008 , or

2.4.4I.1.b.iv

regulation 60(1) of the 1997 Regulations  ;

2.4.4I.1.c

the eligible member had not been awarded additional annual pension under
regulation 31 of the 2013 Regulations;

2.4.4I.1.d

the scheme had received no transfer value payment in respect of the eligible
member, except for a transfer value payment received from—

2.4.4I.1.d.i

a Chapter 1 scheme,

2.4.4I.1.d.ii

a judicial scheme, or

2.4.4I.1.d.iii

another local government scheme,

where service in that scheme was remediable service and there was no
continuous break of more than five years in active membership of a public
service pension scheme since the remediable service was accrued;

2.4.4I.1.e

the revaluation adjustment (as defined in Schedule 1 to the 2013 Regulations)
that would have applied to the eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits
had they been benefits built up in an active member’s pension account, had
been made up to and including the eligible member’s underpin date;

2.4.4I.1.f

no transfer value payment had been made to the eligible member’s pension
account under regulation 10(5) or (6); and

2.4.4I.1.g

where the balance in the eligible member’s pension account at the underpin
date had been adjusted on account of any pension debit or Scheme pays election
, that adjustment had not occurred.

2.4.4I.2

Where paragraph (1)(a)(i)(cc) or (dd) apply, the additional pension purchased
is to be included in the provisional assumed benefits as if it were pension
credited to the eligible member’s pension account on the earliest of—

2.4.4I.2.a

31st March in the Scheme year in which the absence ended;

2.4.4I.2.b

31st March 2022; and

2.4.4I.2.c

the member’s underpin date.

2.4.4I.3

Where paragraph (2) applies, if the eligible member fails to pay all of the
additional pension contributions due, only the amount of additional pension
credited to the pension account is to be included in the provisional assumed
benefits (but see paragraph (4)).

2.4.4I.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply if the eligible member fails to pay all the
additional pension contributions due because—

2.4.4I.4.a

the eligible member left active membership of the 2014 Scheme under regulation
35 of the 2013 Regulations with an entitlement to Tier 1 or Tier 2 benefits
under regulation 35(5) or (6) of those Regulations respectively; or

2.4.4I.4.b

the eligible member died as an active member.

2.4.4I.5

Where paragraph (3) does not apply by virtue of paragraph (4), the eligible
member is treated as having paid the additional pension contributions referred
to in paragraph (1)(a)(i)(cc) or (dd) in full.

2.4.4I.6

Where paragraph (1)(a)(i)(cc) or (dd) apply in relation to a period during
which the eligible member was paying reduced contributions under regulation 10
of the 2013 Regulations, the additional pension included in the provisional
assumed benefits for that period is that which would have been payable had the
eligible member not been paying reduced contributions.

2.4.4I.7

Where the eligible member has qualifying service for less than a period of two
years, the member is treated as having qualifying service for a period of two
years for the purpose of calculating their provisional assumed benefits.

2.4.4I.8

Paragraph (9) applies where, after the eligible member’s underpin date, the
eligible member completes—

2.4.4I.8.a

a transfer in of remediable service from—

2.4.4I.8.a.i

a Chapter 1 scheme,

2.4.4I.8.a.ii

a judicial scheme, or

2.4.4I.8.a.iii

another local government scheme; or

2.4.4I.8.b

the aggregation of remediable service from the 2014 Scheme.

2.4.4I.9

Where this paragraph applies—

2.4.4I.9.a

the eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits are to be calculated as at
the eligible member’s underpin date taking into account their transferred in
or aggregated remediable service; and

2.4.4I.9.b

any calculation of provisional assumed benefits done in respect of the pension
account into which the remediable service has been transferred or aggregated
is set aside.

2.4.4I.10

Paragraph (9) does not apply if there has been a continuous break in active
membership of a public service pension scheme of more than five years since
the remediable service was accrued.

########## Statutory underpin: calculation of the provisional underpin amount

2.4.4J

2.4.4J.1

The eligible member’s provisional underpin amount is calculated by assessing
the benefits the eligible member would have been entitled to under the 2008
Scheme over the underpin period at the eligible member’s underpin date if—

2.4.4J.1.a

the member had accrued membership under the 2008 Scheme, rather than the 2014
Scheme;

2.4.4J.1.b

the period of membership taken into account for the purposes of sub-paragraph
(a) was—

2.4.4J.1.b.i

the period during which the member has paid, or is treated as having paid,
contributions under regulations 9 or 10 (contributions and reduced
contributions) of the 2013 Regulations,

2.4.4J.1.b.ii

any period of unpaid absence due to a trade dispute, or absence from work with
permission, otherwise than because of illness or injury, child related leave,
or reserve forces service leave, if the eligible member elected to cover that
period by entering into an arrangement under regulation 16 of the 2013
Regulations (additional pension contributions), and

2.4.4J.1.b.iii

where the member became entitled to Tier 1 or Tier 2 benefits under regulation
35 of the 2013 Regulations, any additional period of membership that would
have been added to the member’s total membership under regulation 20(2) (in
respect of a Tier 1 pension) or regulation 20(3) (in respect of a Tier 2
pension) of the Benefits Regulations , up to the end of the underpin period,
as if the member had been entitled to an increase in benefits under the
provision in question at the underpin date;

2.4.4J.1.c

the eligible member’s final pay used to calculate the provisional underpin
amount is calculated in accordance with regulations 8 to 11 of the Benefits
Regulations and those regulations apply in relation to the eligible member as
if those Regulations were still in force at the underpin date;

2.4.4J.1.d

the eligible member had been credited with 2008 Scheme benefits in respect of
remediable service transferred from—

2.4.4J.1.d.i

a Chapter 1 scheme,

2.4.4J.1.d.ii

a judicial scheme, or

2.4.4J.1.d.iii

another local government scheme, and

there was no continuous break of more than five years in active membership of
a public service pension scheme since the remediable service was accrued; and

2.4.4J.1.e

where the balance in the eligible member’s pension account at the underpin
date had been adjusted on account of any pension debit or Scheme pays
election, that adjustment had not occurred.

2.4.4J.2

Where paragraph (1)(b)(ii) applies, the unpaid period to be used in relation
to the provisional underpin amount is the proportion of the period of absence
that is equal to the proportion of the full amount of contributions to be paid
under the arrangement that have been paid by the eligible member.

2.4.4J.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply if the eligible member fails to pay all the
additional pension contributions due because—

2.4.4J.3.a

the eligible member left active membership of the 2014 Scheme with an
entitlement to Tier 1 or Tier 2 benefits under regulation 35(5) or (6) of the
2013 Regulations respectively; or

2.4.4J.3.b

the eligible member died.

2.4.4J.4

Where paragraph (2) does not apply, any part of the period of absence falling
within the underpin period that is covered by the arrangement under regulation
16(1) or (3) of the 2013 Regulations (additional pension contributions)
entered into by the eligible member is to be included in the calculation of
the provisional underpin amount.

2.4.4J.5

Where the eligible member has qualifying service for less than a period of two
years, the member is treated as having qualifying service for a period of two
years for the purpose of calculating their provisional underpin amount.

2.4.4J.6

Paragraph (7) applies where, after the eligible member’s underpin date, the
eligible member completes—

2.4.4J.6.a

a transfer in of remediable service from—

2.4.4J.6.a.i

a Chapter 1 scheme,

2.4.4J.6.a.ii

a judicial scheme, or

2.4.4J.6.a.iii

another local government scheme; or

2.4.4J.6.b

the aggregation of remediable service from the 2014 Scheme.

2.4.4J.7

Where this paragraph applies—

2.4.4J.7.a

the eligible member’s provisional underpin amount is to be calculated as at
the eligible member’s underpin date taking into account their transferred in
or aggregated remediable service; and

2.4.4J.7.b

any calculation of a provisional underpin amount done in respect of the
pension account into which the remediable service has been transferred or
aggregated is set aside.

2.4.4J.8

Paragraph (7) does not apply if there has been a continuous break in active
membership of a public service pension scheme of more than five years since
the remediable service was accrued.

########## Statutory underpin: calculation of final assumed benefits

2.4.4K

2.4.4K.1

An eligible member’s final assumed benefits are calculated by adjusting their
provisional assumed benefits at the eligible member’s final underpin date in
accordance with this regulation.

2.4.4K.2

Where the eligible member’s underpin date is not the same date as their final
underpin date, apply any revaluation adjustment or index rate adjustment to
provisional assumed benefits that would have applied to a deferred benefit in
the 2014 Scheme as if the last day of scheme membership was the underpin date.

2.4.4K.3

Where regulation 30(4) of the 2013 Regulations (pension taken later than
normal pension age) applies to the eligible member, apply the enhancement as
set out in that provision to provisional assumed benefits.

2.4.4K.4

Where regulation 30(5) (pension taken earlier than normal pension age) or (6)
(pension by virtue of flexible retirement) of the 2013 Regulations applies to
the eligible member and their benefits under the 2014 Scheme are being reduced
as set out in that provision, apply an equivalent reduction to provisional
assumed benefits.

2.4.4K.5

Where paragraph (4) applies, also reflect in the reduction such transitional
provisions under Schedule 2 as apply (if any).

2.4.4K.6

Where—

2.4.4K.6.a

the eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits include any additional
pension under regulation 16 of the 2013 Regulations;

2.4.4K.6.b

the member is taking payment of their pension before the normal pension age
applicable to them under the 2014 Scheme; and

2.4.4K.6.c

regulation 30(7)(a) of the 2013 Regulations (pension by virtue of dismissal
from employment) applies to reduce the amount of pension payable,

the additional pension referred to in sub-paragraph (a) is also to be reduced
in accordance with regulation 30(7)(a) of the 2013 Regulations.

2.4.4K.7

This regulation is subject to regulation 4N (statutory underpin: effect of
uplift of Tier 3 benefits to Tier 2 benefits).

########## Statutory underpin: calculation of final underpin amount

2.4.4L

2.4.4L.1

An eligible member’s final underpin amount is calculated by adjusting their
provisional underpin amount at the eligible member’s final underpin date in
accordance with this regulation.

2.4.4L.2

Add any amount by which the provisional underpin amount would be increased if
it were a pension to which the Pensions (Increase) Act 1971  applied, which
relates to the period—

2.4.4L.2.a

beginning with the day after the day on which the period used for the purposes
of calculating the eligible member’s final pay under regulations 8 to 11 of
the Benefits Regulations ends; and

2.4.4L.2.b

ending with the eligible member’s final underpin date.

2.4.4L.3

Where an eligible member first receives payment of their retirement pension
after the day on which they attain the age of 65, apply an enhancement
calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary of
State.

2.4.4L.4

Where—

2.4.4L.4.a

regulation 30(5) (pension taken earlier than normal pension age) or (6)
(pension by virtue of flexible retirement) of the 2013 Regulations applies to
an eligible member); and

2.4.4L.4.b

the eligible member has not attained the age of 65,

apply an adjustment calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance issued by
the Secretary of State.

2.4.4L.5

Where paragraph (4) applies, the reduction is also to reflect such
transitional provisions under Schedule 2 as apply (if any).

2.4.4L.6

This regulation is subject to regulation 4N (statutory underpin: effect of
uplift of Tier 3 benefits to Tier 2 benefits).

########## Statutory underpin: effect of cessation of Tier 3 benefits

2.4.4M

2.4.4M.1

This regulation applies in relation to an eligible member—

2.4.4M.1.a

who takes payment of Tier 3 benefits under regulation 35(7) of the 2013
Regulations; but

2.4.4M.1.b

whose Tier 3 benefits subsequently cease by virtue of—

2.4.4M.1.b.i

the eligible member having been entitled to Tier 3 benefits for three years,

2.4.4M.1.b.ii

regulation 37(3) of the 2013 Regulations (starting employment), or

2.4.4M.1.b.iii

regulation 37(7)(c) of those Regulations (cessation of benefit following
review).

2.4.4M.2

Where this regulation applies—

2.4.4M.2.a

the eligible member ceases to be entitled to any future payments of any final
guarantee amount to which the person became entitled by virtue of being
entitled to Tier 3 benefits from the date those benefits cease; and

2.4.4M.2.b

regulations 4A to 4V apply in relation to the eligible member as if they had
never previously had a final underpin date in relation to the pension account.

########## Statutory underpin: effect of uplift of Tier 3 benefits to Tier 2 benefits

2.4.4N

2.4.4N.1

This regulation applies in relation to an eligible member—

2.4.4N.1.a

who takes payment of Tier 3 benefits under regulation 35(7) of the 2013
Regulations; and

2.4.4N.1.b

whose Tier 3 benefits subsequently cease—

2.4.4N.1.b.i

by virtue of being awarded Tier 2 benefits under regulation 37(7)(b) or (10)
of the 2013 Regulations, or

2.4.4N.1.b.ii

for a different reason but who is awarded Tier 2 benefits following a request
for review made by the eligible member under regulation 37(10) within 3 years
of those benefits ceasing.

2.4.4N.2

Where this regulation applies—

2.4.4N.2.a

any final guarantee amount relating to the eligible member’s Tier 3 pension
ceases to be payable;

2.4.4N.2.b

the eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits and provisional underpin
amount are recalculated (in accordance with regulations 4I and 4J
respectively) from the date on which the eligible member became entitled to
Tier 3 benefits as if the member was entitled to Tier 2 benefits from that
date; and

2.4.4N.2.c

the amounts recalculated under sub-paragraph (a) are to be used to recalculate
the eligible member’s final assumed benefits and final underpin amounts (in
accordance with regulations 4K and 4L respectively).

2.4.4N.3

The recalculated final assumed benefits and final underpin amount are to be
used to determine the eligible member’s final guarantee amount (“the
recalculated final guarantee amount”).

2.4.4N.4

The recalculated final guarantee amount is to have applied to it such
revaluation adjustment or index rate adjustment as would have applied had it
been in payment from the date the Tier 3 benefits commenced.

2.4.4N.5

The recalculated final guarantee amount is to be added to the eligible
member’s pension account.

2.4.4N.6

Notwithstanding regulation 4B(3), the amount to be added under paragraph (5)
is to be added from the date the eligible member is awarded Tier 2 benefits.

########## Statutory underpin: survivor’s guarantee amount calculation

2.4.4O

2.4.4O.1

This regulation applies where—

2.4.4O.1.a

an eligible member dies; and

2.4.4O.1.b

as a result, a survivor member’s pension becomes payable under regulation 41,
42, 44, 45, 47 or 48 of the 2013 Regulations.

2.4.4O.2

A proportion of a survivor guarantee amount is to be added to a survivor
member’s pension account in accordance with this regulation on the day after
the eligible member’s death.

2.4.4O.3

A “survivor guarantee amount” is the amount by which an eligible member’s
adjusted assumed benefits are exceeded by their adjusted underpin amount.

2.4.4O.4

The eligible member’s adjusted assumed benefits are calculated by adjusting
their provisional assumed benefits as follows—

2.4.4O.4.a

where the eligible member’s date of death is the same as their underpin date,
increase the eligible member’s provisional assumed benefits by an amount
equivalent to 1/49th of their annual assumed pensionable pay, calculated in
accordance with regulation 21(4) of the 2013 Regulations as at the date of the
eligible member’s death;

2.4.4O.4.b

where, in the opinion of an IRMP, the member was, at the date of their death,
in part time service wholly or partly as a result of the condition that caused
or contributed to their death, the increase referred to in sub-paragraph (a)
is to take no account of any reduction in pensionable pay due to such
reduction in service as is attributable to that condition; and

2.4.4O.4.c

where the eligible member’s date of death is not the same date as their
underpin date, apply any revaluation adjustment or index rate adjustment that
would have applied to a deferred benefit in the 2014 Scheme as if the last day
of scheme membership was the underpin date.

2.4.4O.5

The increase referred to in paragraph (4)(a) applies in relation to the
period—

2.4.4O.5.a

beginning with the day after the eligible member’s death; and

2.4.4O.5.b

ending with the earlier of—

2.4.4O.5.b.i

31st March 2022, and

2.4.4O.5.b.ii

the date on which the eligible member would have attained—

2.4.4O.5.b.ii.aa

the normal retirement age applicable to them under the 2008 Scheme; or

2.4.4O.5.b.ii.bb

where the person was not a member of the 2008 Scheme, the age of 65.

2.4.4O.6

The eligible member’s adjusted underpin amount is calculated by adjusting
their provisional underpin amount as follows—

2.4.4O.6.a

where the eligible member’s date of death is the same as their underpin date,
increase the eligible member’s provisional underpin amount according to any
additional period of membership that would have been added to the member’s
total membership under regulation 20(2) of the Benefits Regulations up to and
including 31st March 2022 if the member’s employment had been terminated on
grounds of ill-health or infirmity of mind or body; and

2.4.4O.6.b

add any increase that would apply were the adjusted underpin amount a pension
to which the Pensions (Increase) Act 1971 applied, which relates to the
period—

2.4.4O.6.b.i

beginning with the day after the day on which the period used for the purposes
of calculating the eligible member’s final pay under regulations 8 to 11 of
the Benefits Regulations ends, and

2.4.4O.6.b.ii

ending with the date of the eligible member’s death.

2.4.4O.7

Where, in the opinion of the scheme manager, the eligible member was in part-
time service at the date of their death wholly or partly as the result of the
condition that caused or contributed to the member’s death, for the purposes
of calculating the adjusted underpin amount, no account is to be taken of any
reduction in membership due to such reduction in service as is attributable to
that condition.

2.4.4O.8

A survivor pension paid under a provision listed in column 2 of the following
table is to be increased by the proportion of the survivor guarantee amount
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the table—

      1. Type of survivor pension 2. Provision of the 2013 Regulations under
which the pension is paid 3. Proportion of survivor guarantee amount to be
added   Partner pension: spouse, civil partner or cohabiting partner 41(4),
44(4), 47(4) 49/160 Child’s pension: one eligible child and survivor pension
paid to deceased member’s partner 42(4), 45(4), 48(4) 49/320 Child’s pension:
more than one eligible child and survivor pension paid to deceased member’s
partner 42(5), 45(5), 48(5) 49/160 Child’s pension: one eligible child and no
survivor pension paid to deceased member’s partner 42(9), 45(9), 48(9) 49/240
Child’s pension: more than one eligible child and no survivor pension paid to
deceased member’s partner 42(10), 45(10), 48(10) 49/120

2.4.4O.9

In this regulation, “IRMP” has the meaning given in Schedule 1 to the 2013
Regulations.

########## Statutory underpin: death grants

2.4.4P

2.4.4P.1

This regulation applies where—

2.4.4P.1.a

an eligible member who is a deferred member or deferred pensioner member of
the 2014 Scheme dies; and

2.4.4P.1.b

as a result, a death grant becomes payable under regulation 43 of the 2013
Regulations.

2.4.4P.2

A deferred guarantee amount relating to the eligible member is to be included
in the amount the eligible member would have been entitled to receive as
retirement pension annually for the purposes of the calculation of a death
grant under regulation 43(3) of the 2013 Regulations.

2.4.4P.3

A deferred guarantee amount is the amount by which the eligible member’s
deferred assumed benefits are exceeded by their deferred underpin amount.

2.4.4P.4

An eligible member’s deferred assumed benefits are calculated by adjusting
their provisional assumed benefits to apply any revaluation adjustment or
index rate adjustment that would have applied to a deferred benefit in the
2014 Scheme as if the last day of scheme membership was the underpin date.

2.4.4P.5

An eligible member’s deferred underpin amount is calculated by adjusting their
provisional underpin to apply any amount by which it would be increased if it
were a pension to which the Pensions (Increase) Act 1971 applied, which
relates to the period—

2.4.4P.5.a

beginning with the day after the day on which the final pay period used for
the purposes of calculating the eligible member’s final pay under regulations
8 to 11 of the Benefits Regulations ends; and

2.4.4P.5.b

ending with date of the eligible member’s death.

########## Statutory underpin: multiple pension accounts

2.4.4Q

2.4.4Q.1

This regulation applies to an eligible member who has an aggregated pension
account.

2.4.4Q.2

Paragraphs (3) to (7) apply where the eligible member does not have a
continuous break in active membership of a public service pension scheme of
more than 5 years that began after the member’s active membership in respect
of the inactive pension account that has been aggregated with the eligible
member’s active pension account ceases.

2.4.4Q.3

The provisional assumed benefits and the provisional underpin amount
calculated in relation to the eligible member’s inactive pension account prior
to it being aggregated with the eligible member’s active pension account are
extinguished.

2.4.4Q.4

The underpin date for the purpose of regulations 4I and 4J in their
application to the aggregated account is the underpin date that relates to the
active pension account.

2.4.4Q.5

Where the pension accounts were held concurrently before being aggregated,
paragraphs (3) and (4) do not apply if the eligible member had attained,
before they ceased to be an active member in relation to each inactive pension
account that has been aggregated with the active pension account—

2.4.4Q.5.a

the normal retirement age applicable to them under the 2008 Scheme; or

2.4.4Q.5.b

where the eligible member was not a member of the 2008 Scheme, the age of 65.

2.4.4Q.6

Where the pension accounts were held consecutively before being aggregated,
paragraphs (3) and (4) do not apply if the eligible member has attained, on
the first day of their membership of the active pension account—

2.4.4Q.6.a

the normal retirement age applicable to them under the 2008 Scheme; or

2.4.4Q.6.b

where the eligible member was not a member of the 2008 Scheme, the age of 65.

2.4.4Q.7

Where paragraph (5) or (6) applies—

2.4.4Q.7.a

the provisional assumed benefits and provisional underpin amount calculated in
relation to the inactive account prior to it being aggregated with the
eligible member’s active pension account are applied to the active pension
account; and

2.4.4Q.7.b

that provisional underpin amount and provisional assumed benefits are to be
used as the basis for the calculations of the final underpin amount and final
assumed benefits, adjusted assumed benefits and adjusted underpin amount under
regulation 4O, or deferred assumed benefits and deferred underpin amount under
regulation 4P, as the case may be, for the active pension account.

2.4.4Q.8

Paragraphs (9) and (10) apply where the eligible member has had a continuous
break in active membership of a public service pension scheme of more than 5
years that began after the member’s active membership in relation to the
inactive pension account that has been aggregated with the eligible member’s
active pension account ceased.

2.4.4Q.9

The provisional assumed benefits and the provisional underpin amount
calculated in relation to the eligible member’s inactive pension account prior
to it being aggregated with the eligible member’s active pension account are
extinguished.

2.4.4Q.10

Any remediable service built up in the inactive pension account is ignored for
the purposes of regulations 4A to 4V.

2.4.4Q.11

In this regulation—

2.4.4Q.11.a

pension accounts are held concurrently if, immediately before the accounts are
aggregated, the eligible member held active membership of the 2014 Scheme in
relation to the pension account that becomes the active pension account at the
same time as holding active membership of the 2014 Scheme in the pension
account that becomes the inactive pension account;

2.4.4Q.11.b

pension accounts are held consecutively before being aggregated if they are
not held concurrently.

2.4.4Q.12

In this regulation—

      “ active pension account ” means a pension account in respect of which
the eligible member is an active member;           “aggregated pension
account” is a pension account that has been aggregated under regulation 22(5),
(6), (7) or (8) of the 2013 Regulations;           “ inactive pension account
” means a pension account in respect of which the eligible member is no longer
an active member.

########## Statutory underpin: divorce and dissolution of civil partnership

2.4.4R

2.4.4R.1

This regulation applies where the cash equivalent of an eligible member’s
relevant benefits is, for the purpose of section 29 of the Welfare Reform and
Pensions Act 1999  (creation of pension debits and credits), calculated in
accordance with regulation 4 of the Pension Sharing (Valuation) Regulations
2000  (manner of calculation and verification of cash equivalents:
occupational pension schemes).

2.4.4R.2

Where this regulation applies, the cash equivalent of the relevant benefits is
to be calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary
of State.

2.4.4R.3

“ Relevant benefits ” has the same meaning as in section 29 of the Welfare
Reform and Pensions Act 1999.

########## Payment of indirect compensation

2.4.4S

2.4.4S.1

An administering authority may, in respect of a compensatable  loss that is a
Part 4 tax loss  incurred by an eligible member—

2.4.4S.1.a

not pay an amount under section 82 of PSPJOA 2022 by way of compensation in
respect of the loss; and

2.4.4S.1.b

instead pay the eligible member additional benefits under the 2014 Scheme.

2.4.4S.2

This regulation is subject to the requirements of regulation 4T (applications
for compensation).

2.4.4S.3

When exercising the power in paragraph (1) to pay additional benefits, the
administering authority must comply with the requirements contained in
direction 33(1) of the PSP Directions 2022 in relation to the exercise of
those powers as those requirements apply to the power to pay amounts by way of
compensation by virtue of section 82(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (and the reference in
direction 33(1)(f)(iii) to direction 34 is to be read accordingly).

2.4.4S.4

The administering authority must obtain actuarial advice before determining
what additional benefits to pay to a member.

2.4.4S.5

When determining what additional benefits to pay to a member under this
regulation, the administering authority must, in accordance with the actuarial
advice obtained under paragraph (4), apply any actuarial factors that were in
force when the pension debit was calculated originally.

2.4.4S.6

Direction 36 of the PSP Directions 2022 (indirect compensation) applies to
this regulation for the purpose of determining whether a Part 4 tax loss is
compensatable.

########## Applications for compensation

2.4.4T

2.4.4T.1

An administering authority may pay compensation to a person in respect of the
2014 Scheme under section 82(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (power to pay compensation to
members or personal representatives in respect of compensatable losses) or
additional benefits payable by virtue of regulation 4S only after the
appropriate person has made an application to the administering authority in
such form and manner as determined by the administering authority, subject to
paragraph (2).

2.4.4T.2

Where compensation payable under section 82(1) or 83(1) (indirect
compensation) of PSPJOA 2022 is in respect of a Part 4 tax loss mentioned in
direction 34(4)(a) or (b) or 36(3)(a) or (b) of the PSP Directions 2022, the
application mentioned in paragraph (1) must include the following—

2.4.4T.2.a

a calculation obtained by the appropriate person from HMRC (by virtue of
HMRC’s compensation function by virtue of section 104 of PSPJOA 2022), of any
compensation or indirect compensation paid by the scheme to the person in
relation to each out-of-scope tax year;

2.4.4T.2.b

a signed declaration by the appropriate person that the information provided
to HMRC in order to obtain the calculation mentioned in sub-paragraph (a), and
the calculation itself, is correct and complete to the best of their knowledge
and belief; and

2.4.4T.2.c

a warning that, if false information is given, the appropriate person signing
the declaration mentioned in sub-paragraph (b) may face civil action or
prosecution, or both.

2.4.4T.3

The administering authority must determine the relevant amounts (if any) owed
by the scheme to a person by virtue of section 82(1) or 83(1) of PSPJOA 2022
following receipt of the application mentioned in paragraph (1).

2.4.4T.4

The administering authority must provide the appropriate person with an
explanation of how the relevant amounts (if any) have been determined under
paragraph (3).

2.4.4T.5

The appropriate person may appeal against a determination by the administering
authority under paragraph (3) by notice in writing to the administering
authority, together with a reasoned explanation of a proposed alternative
amount, supported by any evidence the appropriate person considers relevant.

2.4.4T.6

If an appeal is made under paragraph (5), the administering authority must
decide whether to alter its determination, and provide to the appropriate
person—

2.4.4T.6.a

an altered determination, or confirmation that the original determination
stands;

2.4.4T.6.b

a reasoned explanation of its decision; and

2.4.4T.6.c

a description of the dispute resolution arrangements that apply to the scheme
under section 50 of the Pensions Act 1995 .

2.4.4T.7

In this regulation, a tax year is “ out-of-scope ” in relation to an
individual where—

2.4.4T.7.a

that individual is unable to recover from HMRC the amount of overpaid income
tax paid in relation to that tax year by that individual that gives rise to
their Part 4 tax loss, and

2.4.4T.7.b

the reason for that is because the individual may no longer make a claim under
the Income Tax Acts to recover from HMRC the amount of overpaid income tax
because the statutory time limit has passed.

2.4.4T.8

In this regulation—

      “ HMRC ” means His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;           “ the
appropriate person ” means the eligible member or, if they are deceased, their
personal representatives.

########## Payment of compensation or indirect compensation out of pension fund

2.4.4U

An administering authority may pay compensation to a person in respect of the
2014 Scheme under section 82(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (power to pay compensation to
members or personal representatives in respect of compensatable losses) or
additional benefits payable by virtue of regulation 4S from the pension fund
concerned.

########## Interest on indirect compensation

2.4.4V

2.4.4V.1

This regulation applies where an administering authority pays additional
benefit to an eligible member under regulation 4S (indirect compensation).

2.4.4V.2

Interest is to be paid in respect of the additional benefit in accordance with
regulation 14 of the Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3)
Regulations 2023.

.

2.5

In regulation 9—

2.5.a

in paragraph (1), after “service”, in the second place it appears, insert
“that is not remediable service” ;

2.5.b

after paragraph (1), insert—

2.5.b.1ZA

Where a transfer payment is received into the 2014 Scheme in respect of a
person from a different public service pension scheme which includes a payment
in respect of remediable service, the payment in respect of remediable service
entitles the person to benefits under the 2014 Scheme.

2.5.b.1ZB

For the purposes of these Regulations, so long as there has been no continuous
break in active membership of a public service pension scheme of more than
five years since the remediable service was accrued, transferred remediable
service to which paragraph (1ZA) applies is to be treated as a pension to
which regulations 4A to 4V apply.

;

2.5.c

omit paragraph (1A).

2.6

Omit regulation 24(4)(a) (underpin age for a person in relation to whom
regulation 15 of the 2008 Scheme Transitional Regulations has effect).

#### Amendment of the Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013

3

3.1

The 2013 Regulations are amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 28 (deferred pensioner member accounts), after paragraph (2),
insert—

3.2.2A

The amount of accrued pension referred to in paragraph (2) is not to include—

3.2.2A.a

any final guarantee amount calculated in relation to the member’s discontinued
Tier 3 benefits; or

3.2.2A.b

any revaluation adjustment or index rate adjustment that has been applied to
the retirement pension account as a consequence of a final guarantee amount
calculated in relation to discontinued Tier 3 benefits.

.

3.3

In regulation 30 (retirement benefits), after paragraph (12A), insert—

3.3.12B

The references to an enhancement in paragraph (4), a reduction in paragraph
(5) and an adjustment in paragraph (6) do not apply to any final guarantee
amount that has been added to the pension account under regulation 4B or 4C of
the 2014 Regulations.

.

3.4

In regulation 34 (commutation and small pensions)—

3.4.a

after paragraph (2), insert—

3.4.a.2A

In the case of an eligible member, the pension used to calculate a payment
under paragraph (1) is to include—

3.4.a.2A.a

where the pension is in payment—

3.4.a.2A.a.i

any final guarantee amount calculated in respect of the eligible member’s
pension account under regulation 4B or 4C of the 2014 Regulations; and

3.4.a.2A.a.ii

any revaluation adjustment or index rate adjustment that has been applied to
the retirement pension account as a consequence of a final guarantee amount;

3.4.a.2A.b

where the pension is not in payment, any final guarantee amount that would be
paid were the payment under paragraph (1)(a) or (c) not to proceed; or

3.4.a.2A.c

where the eligible member is deceased—

3.4.a.2A.c.i

any survivor guarantee amount payable to the survivor member in respect of the
eligible member; and

3.4.a.2A.c.ii

any revaluation adjustment or index rate adjustment that has been applied to a
survivor member’s pension account as a consequence of the survivor guarantee
amount.

;

3.4.b

at the end, insert—

3.4.b.4

In this regulation—

      “ eligible member ” has the meaning given in regulation 4A(2) of the
2014 Regulations;           “ survivor guarantee amount ” has the meaning
given in regulation 4O(3) of the 2014 Regulations.

.

3.5

In regulation 41(4)(a) (survivor benefits: partners of active members), after
“draw”, insert  “, excluding any final guarantee amount under regulation 4B or
4C of the 2014 Regulations,” .

3.6

In regulation 42(4)(a), (5)(a), (9)(a) and (10)(a) (survivor benefits:
children of active members), in each case, after “draw”, insert  “, excluding
any final guarantee amount under regulation 4B or 4C of the 2014 Regulations,”
.

3.7

In regulation 43 (death grants: deferred members, pension credit members and
deferred pensioner members)—

3.7.a

in paragraph (3)—

3.7.a.i

after “annually” insert  “, excluding any final guarantee amount under
regulation 4B or 4C of the 2014 Regulations,” ;

3.7.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (a), omit “and”;

3.7.a.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), insert  “and” ;

3.7.a.iv

after sub-paragraph (b), before “multiplied by 5”, insert—

3.7.a.iv.c

it included any deferred guarantee amount calculated under regulation 4P of
the 2014 Regulations,

;

3.7.b

after paragraph (3A), insert—

3.7.b.3B

In paragraph (3) “ deferred guarantee amount ” has the meaning given in
regulation 4P(3) of the 2014 Regulations.

.

3.8

In regulation 44(4) (survivor benefits: partners of deferred members and
deferred pensioner members), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after
“draw”, insert  “excluding any final guarantee amount under regulation 4B or
4C of the 2014 Regulations” .

3.9

In regulation 45(4), (5), (9) and (10) (survivor benefits: children of
deferred members), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), in each case, after
“draw”, insert  “excluding any final guarantee amount under regulation 4B or
4C of the 2014 Regulations” .

3.10

In regulation 47 (survivor benefits: partners of pensioner members), after
paragraph (7), insert—

3.10.8

The pension that the member would have been entitled to, for the purpose of
calculating the amount of pension payable under paragraph (3), is not to
include any final guarantee amount under regulation 4B or 4C of the 2014
Regulations.

.

3.11

In regulation 48 (survivor benefits: children of pensioner members), after
paragraph (10A), insert—

3.11.10B

The pension that the member would have been entitled to, for the purpose of
calculating the amount of pension payable under paragraphs (3) and (8), is not
to include any final guarantee amount under regulation 4B or 4C of the 2014
Regulations.

.

3.12

In regulation 62 (actuarial valuations of pension funds), after paragraph (6),
insert—

3.12.6A

Compensation paid by the scheme to a person by virtue of section 82(1) of
PSPJOA 2022 or additional benefits payable by virtue of regulation 4S of the
2014 Regulations are liabilities for the purpose of the actuarial valuation
under paragraph (1)(a).

.

3.13

In regulation 64 (special circumstances where revised actuarial valuations and
certificates must be obtained), after paragraph (2), insert—

3.13.2ZAA

Compensation paid by the scheme to a person by virtue of section 82(1) of
PSPJOA 2022 or additional benefits payable by virtue of regulation 4S of the
2014 Regulations are liabilities for the purpose of the actuarial valuation
under paragraph (2)(a).

.

3.14

In regulation 81 (interest on late payment of certain benefits), before
paragraph (1), insert—

3.14.A1

This regulation does not apply to sums in respect of which interest is payable
under—

3.14.A1.a

regulation 4V of the 2014 Regulations; or

3.14.A1.b

regulation 14 of the Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3)
Regulations 2023.

;

3.15

In regulation 96 (rights to payment out of pension fund)—

3.15.a

after paragraph (1A), insert—

3.15.a.1B

Where a transfer under paragraph (1) is applied for by an eligible member and
is not a Club Transfer, the value of the transfer is to be calculated in
accordance with actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary of State, taking
into account the member’s provisional assumed benefits and provisional
underpin amount, calculated in accordance with regulations 4I and 4J of the
2014 Regulations.

.

3.15.b

after paragraph (3), insert—

3.15.b.4

“ Eligible member ” has the same meaning as in regulation 4A(2) of the 2014
Regulations.

.

3.16

In regulation 98 (bulk transfers etc.), at the end, insert—

3.16.8

This regulation is subject to regulation 10(6) of the Local Government Pension
Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2023 (transfer payments out of the fund
before 1st October 2023).

.

3.17

In regulation 99 (calculation of amount of transfer payment), after paragraph
(2), insert—

3.17.2A

The actuary must take into account the member’s provisional assumed benefits
and provisional underpin amount, calculated in relation to the member in
accordance with regulations 4I and 4J of the 2014 Regulations.

.

3.18

In Schedule 1 (interpretation)—

3.18.a

at the beginning, insert—

      “ the 2014 Regulations ” means the Local Government Pension Scheme
(Transitional Provisions, Savings and Amendment) Regulations 2014;

;

3.18.b

after the definition of “European pensions institution”, insert—

      “ final guarantee amount ” has the meaning given in regulation 1(6) of
the 2014 Regulations;

;

3.18.c

after the definition of “permanently incapable”, insert—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022;

.

### Provision for certain classes of person

#### Application and interpretation of this Part

4

4.1

A person in category A is a person—

4.1.a

who has, or, in the case of a deceased person or a person who transferred out
of the 2014 Scheme, had, remediable service ;

4.1.b

to whom regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations (statutory underpin) did not
apply; and

4.1.c

who died, or in relation to whom one of the dates set out in regulation 4H(1)
of the 2014 Regulations (final underpin dates) occurred, before 1st October
2023.

4.2

A person in category B is a person—

4.2.a

who has, or, in the case of a deceased person or a person who transferred out
of the 2014 Scheme, had, remediable service;

4.2.b

to whom regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations applied;

4.2.c

who died, or in relation to whom one of the dates set out in regulation 4H(1)
of the 2014 Regulations (final underpin dates) occurred, before 1st October
2023; and

4.2.d

who was not entitled to an increase in their pension account under regulation
4 of the 2014 Regulations.

4.3

A person in category C is a person—

4.3.a

who has, or, in the case of a deceased person or a person who transferred out
of the 2014 Scheme, had, remediable service;

4.3.b

to whom regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations applied;

4.3.c

who died, or in relation to whom one of the dates set out in regulation 4H(1)
of the 2014 Regulations (final underpin dates) occurred, before 1st October
2023; and

4.3.d

who was, or, if they had not died, would have been, entitled to an increase in
their pension account under regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations.

4.4

In their application in relation to a person in accordance with this Part, the
amendments made by regulations 2 and 3 have effect as if they were in force
from 1st April 2014.

4.5

In this Part, references to regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations are to it as
it had effect immediately before 1st October 2023.

4.6

In this Part, “ final guarantee amount ” has the meaning given in regulation
1(6) of the 2014 Regulations.

#### Members who retired or died before 1st October 2023

5

5.1

This regulation applies to a person in category A, B or C.

5.2

Regulations 4A to 4V of the 2014 Regulations (statutory underpin) are to be
applied in relation to the person and it is to be determined whether they are
entitled to a final guarantee amount.

5.3

Where the person is in category A or B but did not die before 1st October
2023, any final guarantee amount to which the person is or was entitled is to
be added to the person’s pension account without undue delay.

5.4

Where the person is in category C but did not die before 1st October 2023 and
the person is entitled to a final guarantee amount that exceeds the amount by
which their pension was increased under regulation 4, the difference is to be
added to the person’s pension account without undue delay.

5.5

Where the person is in category A or B and died before 1st October 2023, any
final guarantee amount to which the person was entitled is to be paid to the
person’s personal representatives without undue delay.

5.6

Where the person is in category C, died before 1st October 2023 and was
entitled to a final guarantee amount that exceeds the amount by which their
pension was, or would, if they had not died, have been, increased under
regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations, the difference is to be paid to the
person’s personal representatives without undue delay.

5.7

Where the person elects or elected to commute the amount of pension payable
under regulation 33 of the 2013 Regulations (election for lump sum instead of
pension), that regulation is to be applied in relation to the final guarantee
amount or, as the case may be, the difference between that and the amount
payable under regulation 4 of the 2014 Regulations.

#### Death grants calculated under regulation 43 of the 2013 Regulations in respect of members who died before 1st October 2023

6

6.1

This regulation applies to a person in category A, B or C—

6.1.a

who died before 1st October 2023; and

6.1.b

in respect of whom a death grant was calculated under regulation 43 of the
2013 Regulations and paid, whether or not under that regulation.

6.2

Provisional assumed benefits and a provisional underpin amount are to be
calculated in relation to the person in accordance with regulations 4I and 4J
respectively of the 2014 Regulations.

6.3

Following this, regulation 4P of those Regulations (statutory underpin: death
grants) is to be applied in relation to the person, subject to paragraphs (4)
and (5).

6.4

Where a deferred guarantee amount is payable in respect of the person in
accordance with this regulation, the death grant is to be recalculated in
accordance with regulation 43 of the 2013 Regulations, with the deferred
guarantee amount included in the amount the person would have been entitled to
receive as retirement pension annually for the purposes of the recalculation.

6.5

Where the recalculated death grant exceeds the death grant that has already
been paid in respect of the person, the difference is to be paid by the
administering authority, without undue delay—

6.5.a

where there was a single recipient of the death grant, to that recipient; or

6.5.b

where there was more than one recipient, to those recipients in the same
proportions as they were paid the death grant.

6.6

In this regulation, “ deferred guarantee amount ” has the meaning given in
regulation 4P(3) of the 2014 Regulations.

#### Pensioner member death grants in respect of members who died before 1st October 2023

7

7.1

This regulation applies to a person in category A, B or C—

7.1.a

who died before 1st October 2023; and

7.1.b

in respect of whom a death grant was calculated under regulation 46 of the
2013 Regulations before that date and paid, whether or not under that
regulation.

7.2

Where a final guarantee amount is to be paid in respect of the person under
regulation 5(5) or (6), the death grant is to be recalculated in accordance
with regulation 46 of the 2013 Regulations, with the final guarantee amount
included in the amount the person would have been entitled to receive as
retirement pension annually, but with any increase under regulation 4
excluded, for the purposes of the recalculation.

7.3

Where the recalculated death grant exceeds the death grant that has already
been paid in respect of the person, the difference is to be paid by the
administering authority, without undue delay—

7.3.a

where there was a single recipient of the death grant, to that recipient; or

7.3.b

where there was more than one recipient, to those recipients in the same
proportions as they were paid the death grant.

#### Survivor benefits in respect of members who died before 1st October 2023;

8

8.1

This regulation applies to a person in category A, B or C—

8.1.a

who is deceased; and

8.1.b

in respect of whom a survivor member’s pension was paid under regulation 41,
42, 44, 45, 47 or 48 of the 2013 Regulations before 1st October 2023.

8.2

Provisional assumed benefits and a provisional underpin amount are to be
calculated in relation to the person in accordance with regulations 4I and 4J
respectively of the 2014 Regulations.

8.3

Following this, regulation 4O of those Regulations is to be applied in
relation to the person subject to paragraph (4).

8.4

Notwithstanding regulation 4O(2) of the 2014 Regulations—

8.4.a

where the person is in category A or B and a proportion of a survivor
guarantee amount is payable in respect of the person, it is to be added to the
survivor member’s pension account in question without undue delay;

8.4.b

where the person is in category C and a survivor member’s pension, including
any survivor guarantee amount, payable in respect of the person exceeds the
annual rate of the survivor member’s pension which was previously payable, the
difference is to be added to the survivor member’s pension account in question
without undue delay.

#### Members who transferred into the fund before 1st October 2023

9

9.1

This regulation applies to a transfer of remediable service into the 2014
Scheme—

9.1.a

from any of—

9.1.a.i

a Chapter 1 scheme;

9.1.a.ii

a judicial scheme;

9.1.a.iii

another local government scheme; and

9.1.b

where the payment in respect of the remediable service was received before 1st
October 2023.

9.2

Where a person made such a transfer that resulted in that person either—

9.2.a

being entitled under regulation 9(1) of the 2014 Regulations to benefits under
the 2014 Scheme as if they were payable as final salary benefits under the
2008 Scheme; or

9.2.b

being credited pension under the 2014 Scheme for the transferred service,

that transfer is to be treated as a transfer to which regulation 9(1ZA) and,
as the case may be, (1ZB) of the 2014 Regulations applies.

#### Members who took a transfer out of the fund before 1st October 2023

10

10.1

This regulation applies to a person in category A, B or C—

10.1.a

who had a transfer out under regulation 96 of the 2013 Regulations before 1st
October 2023;

10.1.b

who had a transfer out under regulation 96 of the 2013 Regulations calculated
as at a date before, but paid on or after, 1st October 2023; or

10.1.c

in respect of whom a transfer payment was made under regulation 98 of the 2013
Regulations calculated as at a date before 1st October 2023.

10.2

The person’s provisional assumed benefits and a provisional underpin amount
are to be calculated in accordance with regulations 4I and 4J respectively of
the 2014 Regulations.

10.3

Where the transfer falls within paragraph (1)(a) or (b) and was a Club
Transfer, the transfer value is to be recalculated in accordance with the Club
Memorandum relating to that transfer.

10.4

Where the transfer falls within paragraph (1)(a) or (b) but was not a Club
Transfer, the value of the transfer is to be recalculated in accordance with
actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary of State, taking into account the
member’s provisional underpin amount and provisional assumed benefits.

10.5

In paragraph (3) and (4), where the recalculated transfer value exceeds the
value of the transfer falling within paragraph (1)(a) or (b) (as the case may
be), the administering authority must take reasonable steps to pay the
difference to the scheme that received the original transfer.

10.6

Where the transfer falls within paragraph (1)(c) an actuary appointed by the
administering authority and an actuary appointed by the trustees or managers
of the new Scheme must seek to agree whether an additional payment should be
made to reflect the value of any of the person’s rights under regulations 4A
to 4V of the 2014 Regulations.

10.7

Where the actuaries agree that a payment must be made, it should be made
without undue delay to the trustees or managers of the new scheme for the
benefit of the person.

10.8

In this regulation—

      “Club Memorandum” and “Club Transfer” have the meanings given in
Schedule 1 to the 2013 Regulations;           “ new scheme ” has the meaning
given in regulation 98(1) of the 2013 Regulations.

#### Commutation payments taken before 1st October 2023

11

11.1

This regulation applies to a person in category A, B or C in respect of whom a
lump sum is calculated under regulation 34(1) of the 2013 Regulations (trivial
commutation) before 1st October 2023 (“ the original payment ”).

11.2

Regulations 4A to 4V of the 2014 Regulations are to be applied to the person
and it is to be determined whether they are entitled to a final guarantee
amount.

11.3

The original payment is to be recalculated in accordance with actuarial
guidance issued by the Secretary of State.

11.4

Notwithstanding regulation 34(3) of the 2013 Regulations (member entitled to
no further benefits after payment), where the recalculated payment exceeds the
original payment, the difference is to be paid to the person without undue
delay.

#### Divorce or dissolution of civil partnership before 1st October 2023.

12

12.1

This regulation applies to a person with remediable service—

12.1.a

who was divorced, or dissolved a civil partnership, before 1st October 2023
and, in respect of that divorce or dissolution, has a pension sharing order
with an effective date on or after 1st April 2014 but before 1st October 2023;
and

12.1.b

whose relevant benefits were, because of that divorce or dissolution of civil
partnership, calculated for the purpose of section 29 of the Welfare Reform
and Pensions Act 1999 (“the original calculation”).

12.2

The cash equivalent value of the person’s relevant benefits for the purpose of
section 29 of the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 1999 is to be recalculated
as at the date on which the original calculation was made in accordance with
actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary of State.

12.3

Where one of the dates set out in regulation 4H(1) of the 2014 Regulations
(statutory underpin: final underpin date) occurred in relation to the person
before the date on which the pension sharing order in respect of their divorce
or the dissolution of their civil partnership took effect—

12.3.a

regulations 4A to 4V of the 2014 Regulations are to be applied to the person;
and

12.3.b

the recalculation must take into account any final guarantee amount to which
the person is entitled.

12.4

Where one of the dates set out in regulation 4G of the 2014 Regulations
(statutory underpin: underpin date) occurred in relation to the person before
the date on which the pension sharing order in respect of their divorce or the
dissolution of their civil partnership took effect but not one of the dates in
regulation 4H of those Regulations—

12.4.a

regulations 4A to 4V of the 2014 Regulations are to be applied to the person;
and

12.4.b

the recalculation must take into account the provisional assumed benefits and
provisional underpin amount calculated under regulations 4I and 4J
respectively of the 2014 Regulations.

12.5

If the recalculated cash equivalent value exceeds the original calculation,
the annual pension deriving from the pension credit awarded to their spouse or
civil partner (“the pension credit member”) is to be recalculated based on the
recalculated cash equivalent value and on the same basis as that which applied
for the purposes of the original calculation.

12.6

If the pension credit member’s pension is in payment on 1st October 2023—

12.6.a

it is to be recalculated based on the recalculated pension credit;

12.6.b

the difference between the recalculated annual pension and the pension in
payment is to be added to the retirement pension account, from the date that
they first took payment of the pension.

12.7

In this regulation—

      “ pension sharing order ” has the meaning given in Schedule 1 to the
2013 Regulations;           “ relevant benefits ” has the same meaning as in
section 29 of the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 1999.

#### Persons with underpin dates before 1st October 2023

13

13.1

This regulation applies to a person—

13.1.a

in relation to whom one of the dates in regulation 4G of the 2014 Regulations
occurred before 1st October 2023 (statutory underpin: underpin date); and

13.1.b

in relation to whom one of the dates set out in regulation 4H(1) of those
Regulations (statutory underpin: final underpin date) has not occurred before
1st October 2023; and

13.1.c

who was not deceased before 1st October 2023.

13.2

The 2014 Regulations (as applied by regulation 4(4)) apply in relation to the
person with the following modifications.

13.3

Regulation 4H (final underpin date) applies as if in paragraph (1), for the
words before sub-paragraph (a), there were substituted—

13.3.1

An eligible member’s final underpin date, in relation to a pension account, is
the first of the following dates which occur in relation to the eligible
member in respect of the pension account to which the eligible member’s
underpin date applies—

.

13.4

Regulation 4I (calculation of provisional assumed benefits) applies as if at
the end there were inserted—

13.4.11

The calculation in this regulation must be performed without undue delay
following 1st October 2023 in respect of an eligible member to whom regulation
13 of the Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2023
applies.

.

13.5

Regulation 4J (calculation of provisional underpin amount) applies as if at
the end there were inserted—

13.5.11

The calculation in this regulation must be performed without undue delay
following 1st October 2023 in respect of an eligible member to whom regulation
13 of the Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) (No. 3) Regulations 2023
applies.

.

#### Interest on payments under the statutory underpin

14

14.1

This regulation applies in relation to a person to whom regulation 5(3), (4),
(5), (6) or (7), 6(5), 7(3), 8(4)(a) or (b), 10(5), 11(4) or 12(6)(b) applies.

14.2

An administering authority must pay interest in respect of the following sums—

14.2.a

the amount to be added to the person’s pension account under regulation 5(3)
or (4) (retired members) relating to the period beginning with the date on
which the pension in question was put into payment and ending with the date on
which the final guarantee amount was added to the pension account;

14.2.b

the amount to be paid under regulation 5(5) or (6) (deceased members);

14.2.c

where regulation 5(7) applies (person who elected to commute an amount of
their pension), any new lump sum arising from the amount added to the person’s
account under regulation 5(3) or (4);

14.2.d

the amount to be paid under regulation 6(5) or 7(3) (death grants);

14.2.e

the amount to be added to the survivor member’s pension account under
regulation 8(4)(a) or (b) (survivor member’s pension account) relating to the
period beginning with the date on which the survivor pension was put into
payment and ending with the date on which the survivor guarantee amount was
added to the survivor pension account;

14.2.f

the amount to be paid to the member under regulation 11(4) (commutation
payments);

14.2.g

the amount to be added under regulation 12(6)(b) (difference between
recalculated pension credit and pension in payment) relating to the period
beginning with the date on which the pension credit member’s pension was put
into payment and ending with the date on which the difference between the
recalculated annual pension and the pension in payment is to be added to the
retirement pension account under regulation 12(6)(b).

14.3

An administering authority must take reasonable steps to pay interest in
respect of the amount to be paid to the scheme under regulation 10(5)
(transfers out).

14.4

The interest is to be paid—

14.4.a

where paragraph (2)(a), (c), or (f) applies, to the person;

14.4.b

where paragraph (2)(b) applies, to the personal representatives in question;

14.4.c

where paragraph (2)(d) applies, to the recipient of the death grant;

14.4.d

where paragraph (2)(e) applies, to the person who has the survivor member’s
pension account;

14.4.e

where paragraph (2)(g) applies, to the pension credit member;

14.4.f

where paragraph (3) applies, to the scheme that received the original
transfer;

14.5

Interest under this regulation is payable from the relevant date until the day
on which the amount in respect of which the interest is payable and the
accrued interest are repaid in full.

14.6

The “relevant date” is—

14.6.a

where regulation 5(3), (4), (5) or (6) applies, the day that falls half-way
through the period beginning with the day after the member’s final underpin
date and ending with the date on which payment is made;

14.6.b

where regulation 5(7) applies, the earliest day from which the administering
authority would have been able to make the payment for a lump sum paid under
regulation 5(7);

14.6.c

where regulation 6(5), 7(3), 10(5) or 11(4) applies, the day on which the
original payment was made;

14.6.d

where regulation 8(4)(a) or (b) applies, the day that falls half-way through
the period beginning with the day after the person’s date of death and ending
with the date on which payment is made;

14.6.e

where regulation 12(6)(b) applies, the day that falls half-way through the
period beginning with the day on which the pension credit member’s pension was
put into payment and ending with the date on which payment is made.

14.7

In paragraph (6)(c), “ original payment ” means—

14.7.a

the death grant;

14.7.b

the transfer out; or

14.7.c

the lump sum

that was paid, or, as the case may be, made before 1st October 2023.

14.8

Interest payable under this regulation is to be calculated in accordance with
direction 38 of the PSP Directions 2022.

14.9

For the purposes of paragraph (6), where there is no day that falls half-way
through the period in question, any reference to that day is to be read as a
reference to the first day of the second half of the period.

14.10

In this Regulation—

      “ final underpin date ” has the meaning given in regulation 4H(1) of the
2014 Regulations;           “ pension credit member ” has the meaning given in
regulation 8(1) of the 2013 Regulations;           “ the PSP Directions 2022 ”
means the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and
Information) Directions 2022.

      We consent to the making of these Regulations       Steve Double
Andrew Stephenson   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury
4th September 2023             Signed by authority of the Secretary of State
for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities       Lee Rowley   Parliamentary
Under Secretary of State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities     5th September 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Public Service Pensions Act  2013 (c. 25)  (“ the 2013 Act ”) makes
provision, and confers further powers to make provision (in the form of “
scheme regulations ” as defined in section 1 of that Act) about the
establishment of public service pension schemes. The Local Government Pension
Scheme Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/2356 , “ the 2013 Regulations ”) are the
scheme Regulations establishing the successor local government pension scheme
(“ the 2014 Scheme ”) to the pension scheme constituted by the Local
Government Pension Scheme (Administration Regulations) 2008, The Local
Government Pensions Scheme (Benefits, Membership and Contributions)
Regulations 2007 and the Local Government Pension Scheme (Transitional
Provisions Regulations 2008) (“ the 2008 Scheme ”). The Local Government
Pension Scheme (Transitional Provisions, Savings and Amendment) Regulations
2014 ( S.I. 2014/525 , “the 2014 Regulations) provide transitional protection
(“the statutory underpin”) for 2008 Scheme members including, in particular,
for members who were within 10 years of their normal pension age under the
2008 Scheme. Similar transitional protection was made under the 2013 Act for
members of judicial pension schemes and members of firefighters pension
schemes. The transitional protection for members of the judicial and
firefighters schemes was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between
members of the respective schemes on the basis of age. Although the statutory
underpin was not subject to legal action, all schemes established under the
2013 Act are subject to review. These Regulations do this in relation to the
2014 Scheme.

  The Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA
2022”), at Chapter 3 of Part 1, makes provision, and confers powers for scheme
regulations under the 2013 Act to make further provision, in relation to
specified service (“remediable service”, as defined in section 77 of PSPJOA
2022) of members who benefitted from the statutory underpin or who did not by
reason of their age. Section 85 of PSPJOA 2022 requires certain powers in
Chapter 3 of Part 1 to be exercised in accordance with Treasury Directions.

  These Regulations are scheme regulations under the 2013 Act and are made in
accordance with PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in
the local government legacy schemes and the 2014 Scheme. They are, to the
extent required by section 85 of PSPJOA 2022, made in accordance with Treasury
Directions (in the form of the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers,
Compensation and Information) Directions 2022). These Regulations have
retrospective effect, which is authorised by section 3(3)(b) of the 2013 Act.

  Part 1 of these Regulations makes general provision.

  Part 2 amends the 2014 Regulations in relation to the statutory underpin:

  Regulation 2(2) amends regulation 1 of the 2014 Regulations and introduces
the concept of the “final guarantee amount”. This is the amount by which a
member’s benefits under the 2014 Scheme (as assessed in accordance with the
amendments made by these Regulations) are exceeded by the amount the member
would have been entitled to under the local government legacy schemes.

  Regulation 2(3) omits regulation 4 of those regulations (which contained the
original provision relating to the statutory underpin)

  Regulation 2(4) inserts new regulations 4A to 4V, which, by their effect,
replace regulation 4:         Regulation 4A makes provision in relation to the
application of the replacement statutory underpin provisions to certain
members (“eligible members”) and in respect of a certain period (“the underpin
period”).           Regulation 4B makes provision for eligible members who
become entitled to a pension on the basis of retirement, redundancy, or ill
health to have their pension account increased by the final guarantee amount
on the day after they become so entitled.           Regulation 4C makes
provision for eligible members who become entitled to a pension on the basis
of taking flexible retirement under regulation 30(6) of the 2013 Regulations
to have their pension account increased by the final guarantee amount
depending on the reason for their next final underpin date.
Regulation 4D prevents eligible members who take a lump sum payment from
having their pension account increased by the final guarantee amount relating
to the pension account.           Regulation 4E prevents eligible members who
transfer to a different scheme from having a final guarantee amount determined
in relation to their pension account.           Regulation 4F prevents
eligible members who take a repayment of contributions from having a final
guarantee amount calculated in respect of those repaid contributions.
Regulation 4G provides for an “underpin date” to be determined in respect of
eligible members. The underpin date is the date in respect of which a
provisional calculation of the member’s benefits under the 2014 Scheme and the
2008 Scheme in respect of the underpin period are made.           Regulation
4H provides for a “final underpin date” to be determined in respect of
eligible members. The final underpin date is the date in respect of which the
final calculation of the eligible members benefits under the 2014 Scheme and
2008 Scheme, on the basis of which the final guarantee amount is calculated.
Regulation 4I contains the calculation of an eligible member’s provisional
assumed benefits. This is the provisional calculation of the benefits a member
is entitled to under the 2014 Scheme.           Regulation 4J contains the
calculation of an eligible member’s provisional underpin amount. This is the
provisional calculation of the benefits a member would otherwise have been
entitled to under the 2008 Scheme.           Regulation 4K provides for the
calculation of an eligible member’s “final assumed benefits” for the purpose
of the statutory underpin. This is the final calculation of the benefits the
person is entitled to under the 2014 Scheme.           Regulation 4L provides
for the calculation of an eligible member’s “final underpin amount” for the
purpose of the statutory underpin. This is the final calculation of the
benefits the person is entitled to under the 2008 Scheme.           Regulation
4M sets out the effect of the cessation of “Tier 3 benefits” under regulation
35(7) of the 2013 Regulations on an eligible member’s final guarantee amount.
Regulation 4N sets out the effect of an eligible member’s Tier 3 benefits
being uplifted to Tier 2 benefits under regulation 37(7)(b) of the 2013
Regulations.           Regulation 4O makes provision for the calculation of a
“survivor guarantee amount” and for that amount to be added to a survivor
member’s pension in respect of a deceased eligible member’s entitlement to a
final guarantee amount.           Regulation 4P makes provision for the
calculation of a “ deferred guarantee amount ” relating to an eligible member
who is deceased and for that amount to be included in the calculation of a
death grant payable in respect of the member.           Regulation 4Q makes
provision in relation to the calculation of provisional assumed benefits and
provisional underpin amount for eligible members who have a pension account
that has been aggregated from two or more pension accounts.
Regulation 4R makes provision for the calculation of the cash equivalent value
of an eligible member’s relevant benefits (as defined in section 29 of the
Welfare Reform and Pensions Act  1999 (c. 30) ) where the eligible member is
divorced or dissolves a civil partnership.           Regulation 4S empowers an
administrative authority to pay additional benefits under the 2014 Scheme,
instead of an amount under section 82 of PSPJOA 2022, in respect of a
compensatable loss that is a Part 4 tax loss.           Regulation 4T prevents
an administering authority from paying an amount by way of compensation under
section 82 of PSPJOA 2022, or additional benefits under regulation 4S, unless
the eligible member concerned or their personal representatives have made an
application. It makes provision for the contents of such an application,
requires administering authorities to determine the amounts payable to the
eligible member or their personal representatives and for appeals against such
determinations.           Regulation 4U provides that compensation under
section 82 of PSPJOA 2022 or regulation 4S may be paid from the pension fund
concerned.           Regulation 4V makes provision for the payment of interest
in respect of the payment of an additional benefit under regulation 4S.

  Regulation 2(5) amends regulation 9 of the 2014 Regulations to provide that
where a transfer payment is received into the 2014 Scheme, which includes a
payment in respect of remediable service, in respect of a person from a
different public service pension scheme, that payment entitles the person to
benefits under the 2014 Scheme, so long as there has been no continuous break
of more than 5 years in active membership since the remediable service was
accrued.

  Regulation 3 makes consequential amendments to the 2013 Regulations,
including the following:

  Regulation 3(2) amends regulation 28 to ensure that any final guarantee
amount calculated in relation to discontinued Tier 3 benefits or any related
revaluation adjustment is not to be included in the amount of accrued pension
for the purpose of a member’s deferred pensioner account.

  Regulation 3(3) amends regulation 30 to provide, in respect of a member’s
pension, that an enhancement (where the member receives their pension after
their normal pension age), reduction (where the member receives their pension
earlier than their normal pension age), or adjustment (where the member
reduces working hours or grade), does not apply to any final guarantee amount
which has been added to the pension account in question.

  Regulation 3(4) amends regulation 34 to provide that the pension used to
calculate a member’s commutation payments may under certain circumstances
include a final guarantee amount.

  Regulation 3(5), (6), (8), (9), (10) and (11) exclude the final guarantee
amount to which an eligible member may otherwise have been entitled from the
pension the member would have been entitled to for the purpose of the
calculation of survivor benefits.

  Regulation 3(7) makes similar provision in relation to death grants.

  Regulation 3(12) and (13) provides that compensation paid under section 82
of PSPJOA 2022 or additional benefits paid under regulation 4S are liabilities
for the purpose of actuarial valuations of a pension fund’s liabilities.

  Regulation 3(14) amends regulation 81 to disapply its provisions on the
payment of interest in relation to sums in respect of which interest is
payable under regulation 4V of the 2014 Regulations or regulation 14 of these
Regulations.

  Regulation 3(15) amends regulation 96 to provide that, where a non-Club
transfer out of the pension fund is applied for by an eligible member under
paragraph (1) of that regulation, the value of the transfer is to be
calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary of
State, taking into account the member’s provisional underpin amount and
provisional assumed benefits.

  Regulation 3(16) and (17) provide that an actuary determining the amount of
a bulk transfer payment must take into account the member’s provisional
underpin amount and provisional assumed benefits.

  Regulation 3(18) inserts a number of definitions into the 2013 Regulations,
including the definition of “final guarantee amount”, which is linked to the
definition in the 2014 Regulations.

  Part 3 makes provision in relation to certain specified classes of person to
put them in the position they would have been had the amendments made by these
Regulations been in force from 2014. The provision being made is as follows:

  Regulation 4 makes general provision, including about the persons to whom,
or in respect of whom, provision is made.

  Regulation 5 makes provision in relation to members who retired or died
before 1st October 2023. It is to be determined whether the person should be
entitled to a final guarantee amount. If so, the amount is to be paid to the
member’s pension account or personal representatives.

  Regulation 6 makes provision in relation to death grants in respect of
members who died before 1st October 2023. Provisional assumed benefits and a
provisional underpin amount are to be calculated in respect of the member and
regulation 43 of the 2013 regulations is to be applied to recalculate the
death grant, with any excess being paid to the original recipients of the
death grant.

  Regulation 7 makes provision in relation to pensioner member death grants in
respect of members who died before 1st October 2023. The death grant payable
in respect of the person is to be recalculated under regulation 46 and the
amount is to be paid to the original recipients of the death grant.

  Regulation 8 makes provision in relation to survivor benefits in respect of
members who died before 1st October 2023. Provisional assumed benefits and a
provisional underpin amount are to be calculated in respect of the member and
regulation 4O is to be applied to the person and any survivor guarantee amount
is to be added to the original survivor member’s pension account payable under
regulation 41, 42, 44, 45, 47 or 48 of the 2013 Regulations.

  Regulation 9 makes provision in relation to members who transferred into the
fund before 1st October 2023 from certain schemes. Where that transfer results
in the person being entitled to benefits under the 2014 Scheme or having a
transfer value accepted under regulation 100 of the 2013 Regulations, the
transfer is to be treated as a transfer to which regulation 9(1ZA) and, as the
case may be (1ZB) of the 2014 Regulations applies.

  Regulation 10 makes provision in relation to members who transferred out of
the fund before 1st October 2023 under regulation 96 or 98 of the 2013
Regulations. Provisional assumed benefits and a provisional underpin amount
are to be calculated in respect of the member and the transfer value is to be
recalculated. Where a payment must be made, it is to be made to the trustees
or manager of the new scheme for the benefit of the person.

  Regulation 11 provides that where a person took a trivial commutation
payment or lump sum under regulation 34(1) of the 2013 Regulations before 1st
October 2023, it is to be determined whether the person is entitled to a final
guarantee amount in accordance with regulations 4A to 4V of the 2014
Regulations.

  Regulation 12 makes provision in relation to members who divorced or
dissolved a civil partnership before 1st October 2023. The cash equivalent
value of the person’s relevant benefits (for the purpose of section 29 of the
Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 1999) is to be recalculated in accordance with
actuarial guidance issued by the Secretary of State. Where the recalculated
amount exceeds the original calculation, the annual pension awarded to the
member’s spouse or civil partner is to be recalculated based on that amount.

  Regulation 13 makes provision for a member with underpin dates (within the
meaning of regulation 4G of the 2014 Regulations) that occur before 1st
October 2023, but who do not have a final underpin date (within the meaning of
regulation 4H of those Regulations) before that date. This regulation makes
provision for the calculation of a provisional underpin amount and provisional
assumed benefits in relation to the member and for the modification of the
provision applying a final underpin date to the member.

  Regulation 14 makes provision for the payment of interest in respect of sums
payable under this Part of the Regulations.

  No impact assessment has been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private or voluntary sectors is foreseen.

