Title: The Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This instrument is part of a number of Regulations which implement Part 3 of the Building Safety Act 2022 (c. 30).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/909

## The Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   9th August 2023

  Laid before Parliament   17th August 2023

  Coming into force - -   1st October 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1, 2B, 3, 30A(1), (3), (5), (6) and (9), 34, 35(2),
35B(7), 35C(1) and 47(4)(b)(ii) of, and paragraphs 1A to 1I, 5B, 5C and 10 of
Schedule 1 to, the Building Act 1984  and sections 19(2), 25(1) to (3) and
(7), 76(5) and 166(1) of , and paragraph 2(5) of Schedule 3 to, the Building
Safety Act 2022 .           The Secretary of State has consulted the Building
Regulations Advisory Committee for England and such other bodies as appear to
be representative of the interests concerned in accordance with section 14(3)
of the Building Act 1984  and has consulted the regulator and such other
persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate in accordance with
section 7 of the Building Safety Act 2022.

### Preliminary

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings
Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 1st October
2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1984 Act ” means the Building Act 1984;           “ the 2022 Act ”
means the Building Safety Act 2022;           “ the 2010 Regulations ” means
the Building Regulations 2010 ;           “ active fire safety measures ”
includes sprinkler systems (including isolating valves and control equipment
for that system), smoke control systems (including heating or ventilation and
air conditioning systems with a smoke control function), fire or smoke
dampers, fire alarm systems, lifts and lift shafts (including evacuation or
fire-fighting lifts), and fire main and hydrants;           “ agreed document
” means—         a description, plan or document in relation to HRB work,
stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB that was approved by virtue of
regulation 7(8) or (10) (building control approval applications for HRB work
or stage of HRB work: decisions) or regulation 15(8) or (10) (building control
approval applications for work to existing HRB: decisions), or           where
such a description, plan or document is revised—         in relation to a
major change, the plan or document that was approved in accordance with
regulation 24(8) or (10) (change control applications: decisions);
in relation to a notifiable change, the version of the plan or document that
accompanied the notice to the regulator  given under regulation 20(1) (change
control: notification requirements);           in relation to a recordable
change, the version of the plan or document that was revised in accordance
with regulation 18(2)(b) (change control) and in respect of which a record was
made in accordance with regulation 18(2)(a);                       “building”—
in the application of any provision of these Regulations to the construction
of a higher-risk building, has the meaning given in regulation 4 of the
Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations
2023 ;           in any other case, has the same meaning as under the 2010
Regulations;                 “ building control approval application for HRB
work ” has the meaning given in regulation 3 (building control approval for
HRB work or stage of HRB work);           “ building control approval
application for a stage of HRB work ” has the meaning given in regulation 3
(building control approval for HRB work or stage of HRB work);           “
building control approval application for work to existing HRB ” has the
meaning given in regulation 11 (building control approval for work to existing
HRB);           “ Building Regulations compliance statement ” means a document
in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 1;           “ change control
application ” has the meaning given in regulation 18(5) (change control);
“ change control log ” has the meaning given in regulation 19(1) (change
control: record-keeping);           “ change control plan ” means a document
in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 1;           “ commercial unit ”
means a part of a building in separate occupation which does not contain a
flat or a residential room;           “ completion certificate application ”
has the meaning given in regulation 40 (completion certificate applications);
“ competence declaration ” means a statement in accordance with paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1;           “ compliance declaration ” means—         where any
appointment of a principal contractor (or sole contractor) or principal
designer (or sole or lead designer) ends before a completion certificate
application is submitted to the regulator, a statement provided in accordance
with regulation 29(3) (new principal contractor or principal designer etc:
notification);           in any other case, has the meaning given in
regulation 40 (completion certificate applications);                 “
compliance explanation ” has the meaning given in regulation 19(2)(g) (change
control: record-keeping);           “ construction control plan ” means a
document in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 1;           “ controlled
change ” has the meaning given in regulation 18 (change control);           “
exempt work ” has the meaning in regulation 57 (exempt work);           “ fire
and emergency file ” means a document in accordance with paragraph 5 of
Schedule 1;           “ fire safety compliance information ” has the meaning
given in regulation 12(3) (building control approval applications for work to
existing HRB);           “ fire safety information ” has the meaning in
regulation 39 (information to be provided where work is scheme work);
“ golden thread information ” has the meaning given in regulation 31 (golden
thread);           “ HRB work ” means—         the construction of a higher-
risk building ;           work to an existing building that causes it to
become a higher-risk building together with any work to the building carried
out at the same time as that work;           such work, if any, which is
necessary to ensure a building that undergoes a material change of use to
become a higher-risk building complies with the applicable requirements listed
in regulation 6 of the 2010 Regulations (requirements relating to material
change of use) together with any work to the building carried out at the same
time as that work;                 “ major change ” has the meaning given in
regulation 26 (change control: major changes and notifiable changes);
“mandatory occurrence reporting plan” is a plan describing the mandatory
occurrence reporting system;           “ mandatory occurrence reporting system
” means a system required under regulation 32 (mandatory occurrence reporting
system);           “ notifiable change ” has the meaning given in regulation
26 (change control: major changes and notifiable changes);           “ passive
fire safety measures ” includes the cavity barriers, fire door sets, duct
dampers, fire shutters and other fire separating elements;           “ partial
completion certificate application ” has the meaning given in regulation 45
(partial completion certificates);           “ partial completion strategy ”
means a document in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 1;           “
recordable change ” means a controlled change which is neither a major change
nor a notifiable change;           “ regularisation certificate application ”
has the meaning given in regulation 47 (regularisation of unauthorised
building work);           “ relevant day ” means any day excluding Christmas
Day, Good Friday or a day which is a bank holiday in England and Wales under
section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 ;           “
relevant person ” has the meaning given in regulation 38 (handover of
information on completion etc);           “ residential room ” means a room,
or a suite of rooms, which is not a flat and which is used solely by one or
more persons to live and sleep and includes a room in a hall of residence or a
residential home, but does not include a room in a hospital, or similar
establishment, which is used for patient accommodation;           “ scheme
work ” means work to which—         regulation 20 (provisions applicable to
self-certification schemes) of the 2010 Regulations applies, or
regulation 20A (provisions applicable to third party certification schemes) of
the 2010 Regulations applies.                 “ work to existing HRB ” means
any higher-risk building work  which is not HRB work;           “ working day
” means any day excluding Saturday, Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or a
day which is a bank holiday in England and Wales under section 1 of the
Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

2.2

In these Regulations—

2.2.a

“building work”, “client”, “contractor”, “designer”, “domestic client”,
“flat”, “material change of use”, “principal contractor”, “principal
designer”, “ project ”, “ sole contractor ” and “ sole or lead designer ” have
the meanings given in 2010 Regulations ;

2.2.b

a reference to appointment as a principal contractor or principal designer is
to appointment under regulation 11D (principal designer and principal
contractor) of the 2010 Regulations, and that reference includes an
appointment which is certified under regulation 11D(2) of those Regulations.

### Building control approval

#### New HRBs

##### Building control approval for HRB work or stage of HRB work

3

Before any person starts HRB work or starts a stage of HRB work, the client in
relation to that work (in this Chapter “the applicant”) must—

3.a

submit an application for building control approval in relation to the work to
the regulator (a “building control approval application for HRB work” or,
where the work is done in stages, a “building control approval application for
a stage of HRB work”) in accordance with regulation 4 (building control
approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work),

3.b

be granted building control approval for the work,

3.c

fulfil those requirements, if any, which in accordance with the building
control approval must be fulfilled before the work or, as the case maybe, the
stage of the work is started, and

3.d

notify the regulator of the date on which the work or the stage of the work is
to start in accordance with regulation 9(2) (notice before starting on site
and further notice when work is “commenced”).

##### Building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work

4

4.1

A building control approval application for HRB work must be made in writing,
signed by the applicant, and must include—

4.1.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client;

4.1.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer);

4.1.c

a statement that the application is made under this regulation;

4.1.d

where HRB work consists of work to an existing building, a description of the
existing building including—

4.1.d.i

details of its current use, including the current use of each storey;

4.1.d.ii

its height as determined in accordance with regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk
Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023 ;

4.1.d.iii

the number of storeys it has as determined in accordance with regulation 6 of
the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions)
Regulations 2023;

4.1.e

a description of the proposed HRB work, including—

4.1.e.i

details of the intended use of the higher-risk building, including the
intended use of each storey;

4.1.e.ii

the height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance with
regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

4.1.e.iii

the number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

4.1.e.iv

the number of flats, the number of residential rooms and the number of
commercial units it is proposed the higher-risk building will contain;

4.1.e.v

the provision to be made for the drainage of the higher-risk building;

4.1.e.vi

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement, the precautions to be taken in the building over a drain, sewer
or disposal main to comply with the requirements of that paragraph;

4.1.e.vii

the steps to be taken to comply with any local enactment that applies;

4.1.e.viii

a statement as to when it is proposed the work is to be regarded as commenced
in accordance with regulation 46A (lapse of building control approval:
commencement of work) of the 2010 Regulations .

4.2

A building control approval application for HRB work must be accompanied by—

4.2.a

a plan to a scale of not less than 1:1250 showing—

4.2.a.i

the size and position of the building and its relationship to adjoining
boundaries;

4.2.a.ii

the boundaries of the curtilage of the building, and the size, position and
use of every other building or proposed building within the curtilage;

4.2.a.iii

the width and position of any street on or within the boundaries of the
curtilage of the building;

4.2.b

4.2.b.i

such other plans as necessary to show that the HRB work would comply with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations ;

4.2.b.ii

a competence declaration;

4.2.b.iii

a construction control plan;

4.2.b.iv

a change control plan;

4.2.b.v

a mandatory occurrence reporting plan;

4.2.b.vi

a Building Regulations compliance statement;

4.2.b.vii

a fire and emergency file;

4.2.b.viii

where the applicant proposes occupation of part of the building before
completion of the HRB work, a partial completion strategy;

4.2.c

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct.

4.3

A building control approval application for a stage of HRB work must be made
in writing, signed by the applicant, and must—

4.3.a

include the information required by paragraph (1);

4.3.b

where the application relates to the first stage of the work—

4.3.b.i

be accompanied by a statement (“staged work statement”) setting out a detailed
description of the first stage and of the subsequent stages of the project
(including an estimate of the time when each stage will start);

4.3.b.ii

be accompanied by the documents referred to in paragraph (2) with the
following modifications—

4.3.b.ii.aa

the plans referred to in paragraph (2)(b)(i) are such plans as necessary to
show that the work for the first stage would comply with all applicable
requirements of the building regulations and a summary of plans for the work
beyond that stage;

4.3.b.ii.bb

the Building Regulations compliance statement referred to in paragraph
(2)(b)(vi) must set out the design principles and building standards to be
applied to the work for the first stage and a summary of the design principles
and building standards to be applied beyond that stage;

4.3.c

where the application relates to a stage after the first stage—

4.3.c.i

be accompanied by a statement (“subsequent stages statement”) setting out a
detailed description of the stage to which the application relates and of the
other stages of the project (including an estimate of the time when each
remaining stage will start);

4.3.c.ii

be accompanied by the documents referred to in paragraph (2) with the
following modifications—

4.3.c.ii.aa

the plans referred to in paragraph (2)(b)(i) are such plans as necessary to
show that the work comprised in the stage to which the application relates
would comply with all applicable requirements of the building regulations and
a summary of plans for work beyond that stage;

4.3.c.ii.bb

the Building Regulations compliance statement referred to in paragraph
(2)(b)(vi) must set out the design principles and building standards to be
applied to the work comprised in the stage to which the application relates
and a summary of the design principles and building standards to be applied
beyond that stage.

##### Building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work: validity and time limit

5

5.1

Where the regulator receives a building control approval application for HRB
work or a building control approval application for a stage of HRB work which
is valid the regulator must—

5.1.a

notify the applicant to that effect, and

5.1.b

determine it within 12 weeks beginning with the date the application is
received by the regulator or within such longer period as at any time the
regulator and the applicant agree in writing.

5.2

Where the regulator receives a building control approval application for HRB
work or a building control approval application for a stage of HRB work which
is not valid the regulator must notify the applicant to that effect giving
reasons (and where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the
notification to the client).

5.3

A building control approval application for HRB work or a building control
approval application for a stage of HRB work is valid if it complies with
regulation 4 (building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of
HRB work).

##### Building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work: consultation

6

6.1

Subject to paragraph (5), before determining a building control approval
application for HRB work or a building control approval application for a
stage of HRB work the regulator must consult—

6.1.a

the enforcing authority (within the meaning of article 25 of the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ) for the proposed higher-risk building, and

6.1.b

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes requirements
in relation to the work, the sewerage undertaker for the proposed higher-risk
building.

6.2

Where the regulator is required to consult a person under this regulation the
regulator—

6.2.a

must give the person sufficient plans to show whether the HRB work or the
stage of HRB work would, if carried out in accordance with those plans, comply
with—

6.2.a.i

in the case of the enforcing authority, the applicable requirements of Part B
(fire safety) of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations, and

6.2.a.ii

in the case of the sewerage undertaker, the requirements of paragraph H4 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations;

6.2.b

must not determine the application until the expiry of a period of 15 working
days beginning with the date the consultation starts or such longer period as
the regulator and the person consulted agree in writing.

6.3

In relation to the consultation under paragraph (1)(a) the plans given must
include the fire and emergency file.

6.4

If all persons consulted express their views before the end of the period
referred to in paragraph (2)(b) then the prohibition against determining the
application ceases to apply on the day after the date on which their views are
received by the regulator.

6.5

The regulator is not required to consult under this regulation where it is
satisfied following consideration of the application there are sufficient
grounds to reject the application.

##### Building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work: decisions

7

7.1

The regulator must grant the building control approval sought in a building
control approval application for HRB work or a building control approval
application for a stage of HRB work unless the application or any document
that accompanied the application—

7.1.a

does not comply with the requirements of regulation 4 (building control
approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work) or any direction
relating to the application or the document given by the regulator under
regulation 59 (electronic submission and directions);

7.1.b

is not sufficiently detailed in any respect to allow the regulator to
determine whether the HRB work or the stage of HRB work would contravene any
applicable requirement of the building regulations;

7.1.c

shows the HRB work or the stage of HRB work would contravene any applicable
requirement of the building regulations;

7.1.d

shows the strategies, policies or procedures in relation to the HRB work or
the stage of HRB work (including in relation to controlled changes, mandatory
occurrence reporting, competence of persons or sharing of information and co-
operation) would contravene, or would be likely to contravene, the
requirements of—

7.1.d.i

regulations 18 to 21 and 26 to 29 (changes to documents or persons);

7.1.d.ii

regulations 31, 38 and 39 (golden thread etc);

7.1.d.iii

regulations 32 to 37 (mandatory occurrence reporting);

7.1.d.iv

Part 2A (dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations.

7.2

If one or more of the reasons in paragraph (1) applies, the regulator may—

7.2.a

reject the building control approval application for HRB work or the building
control approval application for a stage of HRB work, or

7.2.b

with the written consent of the applicant, grant the building control approval
sought in the application subject to one or more requirements.

7.3

The types of requirement that may be imposed under paragraph (2)(b) include—

7.3.a

a requirement to provide a specified plan or document, or a revised version of
a specified plan or document, within a specified period;

7.3.b

a requirement that work does not proceed beyond a specified point until a
specified plan or other document, or a revised version of a specified plan or
other document, has been given to, and approved by, the regulator.

7.4

The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the application (and
where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to
the client) within the period referred to in regulation 5 (building control
approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work: validity and time
limit).

7.5

A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for
rejection.

7.6

A notice that the building control approval sought in the application has been
granted subject to a requirement must specify the requirement imposed.

7.7

If requested by the applicant, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
notice of building control approval.

7.8

Where a building control approval application for HRB work or a building
control approval application for a stage of HRB work is successful the effect
is that from the date of the notice under paragraph (4)—

7.8.a

building control approval for the HRB work or, as the case may be, building
control approval for the stage of HRB work is granted;

7.8.b

subject to paragraphs (9) and (10)—

7.8.b.i

the description of the proposed HRB work or, as the case may be, the
description of the proposed stage of HRB work,

7.8.b.ii

the plans of the HRB work or, as the case may be, the plans of the stage of
HRB work that accompanied the application, and

7.8.b.iii

each of the other documents that accompanied the application,

are approved.

7.9

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that
a plan or document must be revised, the unrevised plan or document is not
approved by paragraph (8)(b).

7.10

Where—

7.10.a

building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that any
plan or document must be revised, and

7.10.b

the plan or document is subsequently revised in accordance with the
requirement,

then that revised plan or document is approved from the date specified in the
approval given by the regulator for the revision.

7.11

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a
type described in paragraph (3)(a), the client must ensure that work does not
start before the plan or document is provided.

7.12

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a
type described in paragraph (3)(b)—

7.12.a

the requirement must set out the points specified in relation to the work and
the plans or documents which must be approved for each point;

7.12.b

the client must ensure work to which the requirement relates does not proceed
beyond the point specified in the requirement until the approval by the
regulator in relation to that plan or document has been received.

7.13

If requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
approval referred to in paragraph (12)(b).

7.14

Where the regulator decides not to approve a plan or document under paragraph
(12) if requested the regulator must give the reasons for the decision.

##### Regulator’s power to require notifications etc for HRB work or stage of HRB work

8

8.1

The regulator may, by notice in writing, require a client—

8.1.a

to notify the regulator, within a specified period, when a specified point of
the HRB work or a specified point of the stage of HRB work has been reached;

8.1.b

not to cover up specified work for a specified period.

8.2

In this regulation “ specified ” means specified by the regulator in the
notice referred to in paragraph (1).

##### Notice before starting on site and further notice when work is “commenced”

9

9.1

This regulation applies where building control approval for HRB work or
building control approval for a stage of HRB work is granted under regulation
7 (building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work:
decisions).

9.2

At least five working days before the day on which the HRB work or the stage
of HRB work starts, the client must give a notice to the regulator setting out
their intention to start the work and the date that work is to start.

9.3

Not more than five working days after the day on which the HRB work is to be
regarded as commenced the client must give a notice to that effect to the
regulator.

9.4

If the regulator is not satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced it
must give the client a notice to that effect (“rejection notice”) within four
weeks of the date the notice under paragraph (3) is given, and the rejection
notice must give the reasons for rejection.

9.5

Where a notice is given under paragraph (3) and the period referred to in
paragraph (4) expires without a rejection notice being given, then the work is
to be regarded as commenced.

9.6

If the client accepts the rejection notice they may not give a further notice
under paragraph (3) unless, having regard to the reasons given by the
regulator, they are satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced.

9.7

The client may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the
regulator to reject the notice provided the appeal is made within 21 relevant
days beginning with the day after the day on which the regulator gives the
rejection notice.

9.8

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (7) only if it is
satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the
following grounds—

9.8.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact;

9.8.b

that the decision was wrong in law;

9.8.c

that the decision was unreasonable;

9.8.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under that Act.

9.9

Where a notice under paragraph (2) or (3) is given by someone on behalf of the
client, the notice must include a statement signed by the client confirming
they agree to the notice being given and that the information contained in it
is correct.

9.10

The regulator may take such steps, including—

9.10.a

requiring information;

9.10.b

laying open of work for inspection,

as it thinks appropriate to check whether the work is to be regarded as
commenced.

9.11

For the purposes of paragraphs (3) to (10) the provisions of regulation 46A
(lapse of building control approval: commencement of work) of the 2010
Regulations apply to determine whether work is to be regarded as commenced.

#### Existing HRBs

##### Notification of emergency repairs to existing HRB

10

10.1

Where work to existing HRB consists only of emergency repairs and it is not
practicable to comply with regulation 11(1) (building control approval for
work to existing HRB) before starting the work, the client must—

10.1.a

give a notice to that effect to the regulator, describing the work and the
reasons for the urgency as soon as reasonably practicable after the work has
started,

10.1.b

send a copy of that notice to the responsible person as soon as reasonably
practicable after the work has started, and

10.1.c

submit a regularisation certificate application to the regulator in relation
to the work as soon as reasonably practicable after the work is carried out.

10.2

In this regulation—

      “ emergency repairs ” means repairs to a building which are necessary to
be carried out as a matter of urgency due to the risk to health, safety or
welfare of persons in or about the building;           “ responsible person ”
has the meaning given in article 3 of the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety)
Order 2005.

##### Building control approval for work to existing HRB

11

11.1

Subject to paragraph (2), before any person starts any work to existing HRB
the client in relation to that work (in this Chapter “the applicant”) must—

11.1.a

submit an application for building control approval in relation to the work to
the regulator (a “building control approval application for work to existing
HRB”) in accordance with regulation 12 (building control approval applications
for work to existing HRB);

11.1.b

be granted building control approval for the work;

11.1.c

fulfil those requirements, if any, which in accordance with the building
control approval must be fulfilled before the work is started, and

11.1.d

notify the regulator of the date on which the work is to start in accordance
with regulation 17(2) (notice before starting on site and further notice when
work is “commenced”).

11.2

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

11.2.a

scheme work;

11.2.b

exempt work, or

11.2.c

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

##### Building control approval applications for work to existing HRB

12

12.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), where a building control approval
application for work to existing HRB is required by regulation 11 (building
control approval for work to existing HRB), it must be made in writing, signed
by the applicant, and must include—

12.1.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client;

12.1.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer);

12.1.c

a statement that the application is made under this regulation;

12.1.d

a description of the existing higher-risk building including—

12.1.d.i

details of its current use, including the current use of each storey;

12.1.d.ii

its height as determined in accordance with regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk
Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023 ;

12.1.d.iii

the number of storeys it has as determined in accordance with regulation 6 of
the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions)
Regulations 2023;

12.1.d.iv

the number of flats, the number of residential rooms and the number of
commercial units contained in the higher-risk building;

12.1.e

a description of the proposed work, including—

12.1.e.i

where the use of any part of the higher-risk building is changing, details of
the intended use of each storey;

12.1.e.ii

where the height of any part of the higher-risk building is changing, the
height of the building after the proposed work as determined in accordance
with regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

12.1.e.iii

where the number of storeys in the higher-risk building is changing, the
number of storeys as determined in accordance with regulation 6 of the Higher-
Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023;

12.1.e.iv

where the number of flats or residential rooms in the higher-risk building is
changing, the number of flats or residential rooms to be contained in the
higher-risk building;

12.1.e.v

the provision to be made for the drainage of the building or extension;

12.1.e.vi

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement, the precautions to be taken in the building over a drain, sewer
or disposal main to comply with the requirements of that paragraph;

12.1.e.vii

the steps to be taken to comply with any local enactment that applies;

12.1.e.viii

a statement setting out—

12.1.e.viii.aa

the date when it is proposed the work will reach the point when it is to be
regarded as commenced in accordance with regulation 46A (lapse of building
control approval: commencement of work) of the 2010 Regulations; and

12.1.e.viii.bb

except in cases where paragraph (2) or (3) of regulation 46A of the 2010
Regulations applies, details of the work which the client considers amounts to
15% of the proposed work.

12.2

A building control approval application for work to existing HRB must be
accompanied by—

12.2.a

a plan to a scale of not less than 1:1250 showing—

12.2.a.i

the size and position of the building and its relationship to adjoining
boundaries;

12.2.a.ii

the boundaries of the curtilage of the building, or the building as extended,
and the size, position and use of every other building or proposed building
within the curtilage;

12.2.a.iii

the width and position of any street on or within the boundaries of the
curtilage of the building or the building as extended;

12.2.b

such other plans as necessary to show that the work would comply with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations;

12.2.c

additionally, where work to existing HRB is category A work—

12.2.c.i

a competence declaration;

12.2.c.ii

a construction control plan;

12.2.c.iii

a change control plan;

12.2.c.iv

a mandatory occurrence reporting plan;

12.2.c.v

a Building Regulations compliance statement;

12.2.c.vi

a fire and emergency file;

12.2.c.vii

where the applicant proposes occupation of part of the building before
completion of the work, a partial completion strategy;

12.2.d

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct.

12.3

For a building control approval application for work to existing HRB where the
work consists of category B work, the application must—

12.3.a

be made in writing, signed by the applicant,

12.3.b

subject to paragraph (4), include the matters mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) to
(e),

12.3.c

be accompanied by the plans referred to in paragraphs (2)(a) and (2)(b),

12.3.d

where Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in
relation to the work, include information setting out the fire safety design
principles, concepts and standards applied to the development including
sufficient plans to show how the work would comply with Part B (fire safety)
of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations (“fire safety compliance information”),
and

12.3.e

such of the documents listed in paragraph (2)(c) as the applicant considers
appropriate.

12.4

Where the work consists only of category B work within a flat, the application
does not need to include the matters mentioned in paragraph (1)(d).

12.5

In relation to an application for work to existing HRB where the work consists
of category B work, the regulator may at any time before determining the
application, by notice in writing, additionally require the applicant to
provide any of the following documents—

12.5.a

a competence declaration;

12.5.b

a construction control plan;

12.5.c

a change control plan;

12.5.d

a mandatory occurrence reporting plan;

12.5.e

a Building Regulations compliance statement;

12.5.f

a fire and emergency file;

12.5.g

a partial completion strategy.

12.6

In this regulation—

      “ category A work ” means work falling within any one or more of the
following descriptions—         work which increases or decreases the external
height or width of the higher-risk building;           work which changes the
number of storeys the higher-risk building has (including adding or removing a
mezzanine or gallery floor);           work which changes the number of flats
or residential rooms contained in the higher-risk building;           work
which changes the number of, or width of, the staircases in a higher-risk
building or which changes the number of, or width of, any other escape route
within the building;           work to the external wall of a higher-risk
building excluding work or materials of a description specified in regulation
7(3) of the 2010 Regulations;           work which changes the internal layout
of a higher-risk building;           work which affects the passive fire
safety measures in the higher-risk building;           work which affects the
active fire safety measures in a higher-risk building;           work which
affects the common parts of a higher-risk building (including the external
wall) not otherwise falling within category A;                 “ category B
work ” means work which does not fall within category A.

12.7

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

12.7.a

scheme work;

12.7.b

exempt work, or

12.7.c

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

##### Building control approval applications for work to existing HRB: validity and time limit

13

13.1

Where the regulator receives a building control approval application for work
to existing HRB which is valid the regulator must—

13.1.a

notify the applicant to that effect, and

13.1.b

determine it within 8 weeks beginning with the date the application is
received by the regulator or within such longer period as at any time the
regulator and the applicant agree in writing.

13.2

Where the regulator receives a building control approval application for work
to existing HRB which is not valid the regulator must notify the applicant to
that effect giving reasons (and where the applicant is not the client, also
give a copy of the notification to the client).

13.3

A building control approval application for work to existing HRB is valid if
it complies with regulation 12 (building control approval applications for
work to existing HRB).

##### Building control approval applications for work to existing HRB: consultation

14

14.1

Before determining a building control approval application for work to
existing HRB the regulator must consult—

14.1.a

where the work is—

14.1.a.i

category A work, or

14.1.a.ii

category B work and Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes
requirements in relation to the work,

the enforcing authority (within the meaning of article 25 of the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ) for the building, and

14.1.b

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes requirements
in relation to the work, the sewerage undertaker for the building.

14.2

Where the regulator is required to consult a person under this regulation the
regulator—

14.2.a

must give the person sufficient plans to show whether the work to existing HRB
would, if carried out in accordance with those plans, comply with—

14.2.a.i

in the case of the enforcing authority, the applicable requirements of Part B
(fire safety) of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations, and

14.2.a.ii

in the case of the sewerage undertaker, the requirements of paragraph H4 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations;

14.2.b

must not determine the application until the expiry of a period of 15 working
days beginning with the date the consultation starts or such longer period as
the regulator and the person consulted agree in writing.

14.3

In relation to the consultation under paragraph (1)(a) the plans given must
include—

14.3.a

for category A work, the fire and emergency file;

14.3.b

for category B work, the fire safety compliance information.

14.4

If all persons consulted express their views before the end of the period
referred to in paragraph (2)(b) then the prohibition against determining the
application ceases to apply on the day after the date on which their views are
received by the regulator.

14.5

The regulator is not required to consult under this regulation where it is
satisfied following consideration of the application there are sufficient
grounds to reject the application.

14.6

In this regulation “category A work” and “category B work” have the meanings
given in regulation 12 (building control approval applications for work to
existing HRB).

##### Building control approval applications for work to existing HRB: decisions

15

15.1

The regulator must grant the building control approval sought in a building
control approval application for work to existing HRB unless—

15.1.a

the application or any document that accompanied the application (or is
provided under regulation 12(5) (building control approval applications for
work to existing HRB))—

15.1.a.i

does not comply with the requirements of regulation 12 (building control
approval applications for work to existing HRB) or any direction relating to
the application or the document given by the regulator under regulation 59
(electronic submission and directions);

15.1.a.ii

is not sufficiently detailed in any respect to allow the regulator to
determine whether the work would contravene any applicable requirement of the
building regulations;

15.1.a.iii

shows that—

15.1.a.iii.aa

the proposed work would contravene any applicable requirement of the building
regulations;

15.1.a.iii.bb

in a case where details are provided under regulation 12(1)(e)(viii)(bb), the
work set out in the details would not in the regulator’s opinion amount to 15%
of the work;

15.1.a.iv

shows the strategies, policies or procedures in relation to the work
(including in relation to controlled changes, mandatory occurrence reporting,
competence of persons or sharing of information and co-operation) would
contravene, or would be likely to contravene, the requirements of—

15.1.a.iv.aa

regulations 18 to 21 and 26 to 29 (changes to documents or persons);

15.1.a.iv.bb

regulations 31, 38 and 39 (golden thread etc);

15.1.a.iv.cc

regulations 32 to 37 (mandatory occurrence reporting);

15.1.a.iv.dd

Part 2A (dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations;

15.1.b

when requested pursuant to regulation 12(5) (building control approval
applications for work to existing HRB), the applicant failed to provide the
document requested.

15.2

If one or more of the reasons in paragraph (1) applies, the regulator may—

15.2.a

reject the building control approval application for work to existing HRB, or

15.2.b

with the written consent of the applicant, grant the building control approval
sought in the application subject to one or more requirements.

15.3

The types of requirement that may be imposed under paragraph (2)(b) include—

15.3.a

a requirement to provide a specified plan or document, or a revised version of
a specified plan or document, within a specified period;

15.3.b

a requirement that work does not proceed beyond a specified point until a
specified plan or other document, or a revised version of a specified plan or
other document, has been given to, and approved by, the regulator.

15.4

The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the application (and
where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to
the client) within the period referred to in regulation 13 (building control
approval applications for work to existing HRB: validity and time limit).

15.5

A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for
rejection.

15.6

A notice that the building control approval sought in the application has been
granted subject to a requirement must specify the requirement imposed.

15.7

If requested by the applicant, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
notice of building control approval.

15.8

Where a building control approval application for work to existing HRB is
successful the effect is that from the date of the notice under paragraph (4)—

15.8.a

building control approval for the work to existing HRB is granted;

15.8.b

subject to paragraphs (9) and (10)—

15.8.b.i

the description of the proposed work under regulation 12(1)(e) (building
control approval applications for work to existing HRB);

15.8.b.ii

the plans of the work that accompanied the application, and

15.8.b.iii

each of the other documents that accompanied the application and, in
accordance with regulation 12(5) (building control approval applications for
work to existing HRB), the regulator required to be provided,

are approved.

15.9

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that
a plan or document must be revised, the unrevised plan or document is not
approved by paragraph (8)(b).

15.10

Where—

15.10.a

building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that any
plan or document must be revised, and

15.10.b

the plan or document is revised in accordance with the requirement,

paragraph (8)(b) applies in relation to the revised plan or document.

15.11

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a
type described in paragraph (3)(a), the client must ensure that work does not
start before the plan or document is provided.

15.12

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a
type described in paragraph (3)(b)—

15.12.a

the requirement must set out the points specified in relation to the work and
the plans or documents which must be approved for each point;

15.12.b

the client must ensure work does not proceed beyond the point specified in a
requirement until the approval by the regulator in relation to that plan or
document has been received.

15.13

If requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
approval referred to in paragraph (12)(b).

15.14

Where the regulator decides not to approve a plan or document under paragraph
(12) if requested the regulator must give the reasons for the decision.

##### Regulator’s power to require notifications etc for work to existing HRB

16

16.1

The regulator may, by notice in writing, require a client—

16.1.a

to notify the regulator, within a specified period, when a specified point of
the work to existing HRB has been reached;

16.1.b

not to cover up specified work for a specified period.

16.2

In this regulation “ specified ” means specified by the regulator in the
notice referred to in paragraph (1).

##### Notice before starting on site and further notice when work is “commenced”

17

17.1

This regulation applies where building control approval for work to existing
HRB is granted under regulation 15 (building control approval applications for
work to existing HRB: decisions).

17.2

At least five working days before the day on which the work to existing HRB
starts, the client must give a notice to the regulator setting out their
intention to start the work and the date that work is to start.

17.3

Not more than five working days after the day on which the work to existing
HRB is to be regarded as commenced the client must give a notice to that
effect to the regulator.

17.4

If the regulator is not satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced it
must give the client a notice to that effect (“rejection notice”) within four
weeks of the date the notice under paragraph (3) is given, and the rejection
notice must give the reasons for rejection.

17.5

Where a notice is given under paragraph (3) and the period referred to in
paragraph (4) expires without a rejection notice being given, then the work is
to be regarded as commenced.

17.6

If the client accepts the rejection notice they may not give a further notice
under paragraph (3) unless, having regard to the reasons given by the
regulator, they are satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced.

17.7

The client may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the
regulator to reject the notice provided the appeal is made within 21 relevant
days beginning with the day after the day on which the regulator gives the
rejection notice.

17.8

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (7) only if it is
satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the
following grounds—

17.8.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact;

17.8.b

that the decision was wrong in law;

17.8.c

that the decision was unreasonable;

17.8.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under that Act.

17.9

Where a notice under paragraph (2) or (3) is given by someone on behalf of the
client, the notice must include a statement signed by the client confirming
they agree to the notice being given and that the information contained in it
is correct.

17.10

The regulator may take such steps, including—

17.10.a

requiring information;

17.10.b

laying open of work for inspection,

as it thinks appropriate to check whether the work is to be regarded as
commenced.

17.11

For the purposes of paragraphs (3) to (10) the provisions of regulation 46A
(lapse of building control approval: commencement of work) of the 2010
Regulations apply to determine whether work is to be regarded as commenced.

### Changes before or during construction

#### Change control

18

18.1

This regulation applies where one or more of the following changes
(“controlled change”) is proposed—

18.1.a

a change to any current plans of any work or proposed work or the carrying out
of work otherwise than in accordance with the current plans;

18.1.b

a change to any stage of HRB work, including adding or removing a stage;

18.1.c

a change to any strategies, policies or procedures described in any current
agreed document.

18.2

Before any controlled change can be carried out, the client must ensure—

18.2.a

a record is made of the controlled change in accordance with regulation 19
(change control: record-keeping), and

18.2.b

a revised version of any agreed document affected by the controlled change is
produced.

18.3

Where the controlled change is a notifiable change, the client must notify the
regulator in accordance with regulation 20 (change control: notification
requirements).

18.4

A notifiable change must not be carried out, and the work to which it relates
must not start, until the notification referred to in paragraph (3) has
occurred.

18.5

Where the controlled change is a major change, the client must make an
application for building control approval in respect of the change (a “change
control application”) to the regulator in accordance with regulation 21
(change control applications).

18.6

A major change must not be carried out, and the work to which it relates must
not start, until the change control application is granted.

18.7

Paragraph (8) applies where two or more controlled changes are related to the
same change to the building work (“related changes”) and at least one of those
controlled changes is a major change and at least one is a notifiable change.

18.8

Where this paragraph applies—

18.8.a

all the major changes which are related changes may be included in the same
change control application,

18.8.b

any notifiable changes which are related changes may also be included in that
change control application, and

18.8.c

in relation to any change which is a notifiable change, the requirements of
regulation 20 (change control: notification requirements) are satisfied by
providing details of the change as part of that application.

18.9

Where two or more controlled changes are not related to the same change to the
building work they must not be included in the same change control
application.

18.10

Paragraph (11) applies where a change control application has been submitted
in relation to a proposed change (“the main change”) and it is proposed
another controlled change (excluding a change which is only a recordable
change) is to be carried out which is consequential on the main change (“a
consequential change”) but was not included in an application of the type
referred to in paragraph (8).

18.11

Where this paragraph applies—

18.11.a

a consequential change which is a notifiable change must not be notified in
accordance with regulation 20 (change control: notification requirements);

18.11.b

a change control application in relation to a consequential change which is a
major change must not be made in accordance with regulation 21 (change control
applications),

until the regulator has notified the client of the outcome of the change
control application in relation to the main change.

18.12

In this regulation—

      “ current agreed document ” means the document that is an agreed
document at the time the controlled change is proposed;           “ current
plans ” means the plans that are an agreed document at the time the controlled
change is proposed.

#### Change control: record-keeping

19

19.1

The principal contractor (or sole contractor) must create and maintain a
document for the purposes of recording information in respect of changes to
the project (“change control log”).

19.2

A controlled change must be recorded by entering the following information in
the change control log—

19.2.a

the name of the individual recording the change,

19.2.b

a description of the proposed change,

19.2.c

an explanation of the reasons why the change has been proposed,

19.2.d

whether the change is a recordable change, a notifiable change or a major
change,

19.2.e

a list of the name and occupation of each person, if any, whose advice was
sought in relation to the proposed change and a summary of any advice
provided,

19.2.f

an assessment of which agreed document is affected by the proposed change and
confirmation that a revised version has been produced in accordance with
regulation 18(2)(b) (change control), and

19.2.g

an explanation, in relation to the proposed change, of how—

19.2.g.i

the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB will, after the
proposed change is carried out, comply with all applicable building
regulations, and

19.2.g.ii

the strategies, policies and procedures in any agreed document (including in
relation to controlled changes, mandatory occurrence reporting, competence of
persons or sharing of information and co-operation) will, after the proposed
change is carried out, comply with the requirements of—

19.2.g.ii.aa

this regulation and regulations 18, 20, 21 and 26 to 29 (changes to documents
or persons);

19.2.g.ii.bb

regulations 31, 38 and 39 (golden thread etc);

19.2.g.ii.cc

regulations 32 to 37 (mandatory occurrence reporting);

19.2.g.ii.dd

Part 2A (dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations,

(a “compliance explanation”).

#### Change control: notification requirements

20

20.1

A notice under regulation 18(3) (change control) must be in writing, signed by
the client, and must include—

20.1.a

a description of the proposed controlled change,

20.1.b

an explanation of the reasons why the change has been proposed,

20.1.c

a list of the name and occupation of each person, if any, whose advice was
sought in relation to the proposed change and a summary of any advice
provided,

20.1.d

an assessment of the agreed documents affected by the proposed change,

20.1.e

a compliance explanation in relation to the proposed change, and

20.1.f

where the notification is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the notification being given and
that the information contained in the application is correct,

and the notice must be accompanied by the revised version of the agreed
document produced in accordance with regulation 18(2)(b) (change control).

20.2

The regulator may, by notice in writing, require the person giving the
notification to provide further information in relation to the proposed
controlled change.

20.3

Where a notice under paragraph (2) is given to the person giving the
notification, the person must provide the information within 10 working days
of receipt of the notice.

#### Change control applications

21

21.1

A change control application must be made by the client (“ the applicant ”) in
writing, signed by the applicant, and must include—

21.1.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client,

21.1.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer),

21.1.c

a statement that the application is made under this regulation, and

21.1.d

a description of the proposed controlled change.

21.2

The application must be accompanied by—

21.2.a

an explanation of the reasons why the change has been proposed,

21.2.b

a list of the name and occupation of each person, if any, whose advice was
sought in relation to the proposed change and a summary of any advice
provided,

21.2.c

where the change is to the number of flats or residential rooms, plans showing
the number of flats or residential rooms it is proposed the higher-risk
building will contain,

21.2.d

an assessment of the agreed documents affected by the proposed change,

21.2.e

a compliance explanation in relation to the proposed change, and

21.2.f

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct,

and the application must be accompanied by the revised version of the agreed
document produced in accordance with regulation 18(2)(b) (change control).

#### Change control applications: validity and time limit

22

22.1

Where the regulator receives a change control application which is valid the
regulator must—

22.1.a

notify the applicant to that effect, and

22.1.b

determine it within 6 weeks beginning with the date the application is
received by the regulator or within such longer period as at any time the
regulator and the applicant agree in writing.

22.2

Where the regulator receives a change control application which is not valid
the regulator must notify the applicant to that effect giving reasons (and
where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to
the client).

22.3

A change control application is valid if it complies with regulation 21
(change control applications).

#### Change control applications: consultation

23

23.1

Before determining a change control application relating to a controlled
change of a kind described in regulation 18(1)(a) (change control), the
regulator must consult—

23.1.a

the enforcing authority (within the meaning of article 25 of the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ) for the building or proposed building where
Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes requirements in relation
to the work to which the controlled change relates, and

23.1.b

the sewerage undertaker for the building or proposed building where paragraph
H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes requirements in relation to
the work to which the controlled change relates.

23.2

Where the regulator is required to consult a person under this regulation the
regulator—

23.2.a

must give the person sufficient plans to show whether the work would, if
carried out in accordance with those plans, comply with—

23.2.a.i

in the case of the enforcing authority, the applicable requirements of Part B
(fire safety) of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations, and

23.2.a.ii

in the case of the sewerage undertaker, the requirements of paragraph H4 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations;

23.2.b

must not determine the application until the expiry of a period of 10 working
days beginning with the date the consultation starts or such longer period as
the regulator and the person consulted agree in writing.

23.3

In relation to the consultation under paragraph (1)(a) the plans given must
include the fire and emergency file or, where the work to which the
application relates is category B work, the fire safety compliance
information.

23.4

If all persons consulted express their views before the end of the period
referred to in paragraph (2)(b) then the prohibition against determining the
application ceases to apply on the day after the date on which their views are
received by the regulator.

23.5

The regulator is not required to consult under this regulation where it is
satisfied following consideration of the application there are sufficient
grounds to reject the application.

23.6

In this regulation, “ category B work ” has the meaning given in regulation 12
(building control approval applications for work to existing HRB).

#### Change control applications: decisions

24

24.1

The regulator must grant the building control approval sought in a change
control application unless the application or any document that accompanied
the application—

24.1.a

does not comply with the requirements of regulation 21 (change control
applications) or any direction relating to the application or the document
given by the regulator under regulation 59 (electronic submission and
directions);

24.1.b

is not sufficiently detailed in any respect to allow the regulator to
determine whether the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB
would contravene any applicable requirement of the building regulations;

24.1.c

shows the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB would
contravene any applicable requirement of the building regulations;

24.1.d

shows the strategies, policies or procedures in any agreed document (including
in relation to controlled changes, mandatory occurrence reporting, competence
of persons or sharing of information and co-operation) would contravene, or
would be likely to contravene, the requirements of—

24.1.d.i

regulations 18 to 21 and 26 to 29 (changes to documents or persons);

24.1.d.ii

regulations 31, 38 and 39 (golden thread etc);

24.1.d.iii

regulations 32 to 37 (mandatory occurrence reporting);

24.1.d.iv

Part 2A (dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations.

24.2

If one or more of the reasons in paragraph (1) applies, the regulator may—

24.2.a

reject the change control application, or

24.2.b

with the written consent of the applicant, grant the building control approval
sought in the application subject to one or more requirements.

24.3

The types of requirement that may be imposed under paragraph (2)(b) include—

24.3.a

a requirement to provide a specified plan or document, or a revised version of
a specified plan or document, within a specified period;

24.3.b

a requirement that work does not proceed beyond a specified point until a
specified plan or other document, or a revised version of a specified plan or
other document, has been given to, and approved by, the regulator.

24.4

The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the change control
application (and where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of
the notification to the client) within the period referred to in regulation 22
(change control applications: validity and time limit).

24.5

A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for
rejection.

24.6

A notice that the building control approval sought in the change control
application has been granted subject to a requirement must specify the
requirement imposed.

24.7

If requested by the applicant, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
notice of building control approval.

24.8

Where a change control application is successful the effect is that from the
date of the notice under paragraph (4)—

24.8.a

building control approval for the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to
existing HRB is granted;

24.8.b

subject to paragraphs (9) and (10)—

24.8.b.i

the description of the proposed controlled change, and

24.8.b.ii

the revised version of the agreed document that accompanied the application,

are approved.

24.9

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that
a plan or document must be revised, the unrevised plan or document is not
approved by paragraph (8)(b).

24.10

Where—

24.10.a

building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that a
plan or document must be revised, and

24.10.b

the plan or document is revised in accordance with the requirement,

paragraph (8)(b) applies in relation to the revised plan or document.

24.11

Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a
type described in paragraph (3)(b)—

24.11.a

the client must ensure the work does not proceed beyond the point specified in
the requirement until approval by the regulator to the plan or document has
been received;

24.11.b

where a request for approval has been received by the regulator it must notify
the client of the outcome of the request within 6 weeks beginning with the
date the request is received by the regulator or within such longer period as
at any time the regulator and the client agree in writing;

24.11.c

a notice that the request has been rejected must give the reasons for
rejection, and

24.11.d

if requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
approval.

#### Change control: regulator power to specify notifiable changes and major changes

25

The regulator may specify that a particular type of controlled change is a
notifiable change or a major change, in relation to specified work, by giving
notice in writing to that effect to the client, principal contractor (or sole
contractor) and the principal designer (or sole or lead designer) for that
work.

#### Change control: major changes and notifiable changes

26

26.1

In regulations 18 to 25—

      “ major change ” means—         in relation to HRB work or a stage of
HRB work—         a change which is a material change of use to any part of a
proposed higher-risk building;           a change of the proposed use of any
part of a proposed higher-risk building so that after the change the part of
the building is to have a use as a car park or cease to have a use as a car
park (whether the car park is for the occupiers of the building or otherwise);
a change which increases or decreases the external height or width of a
proposed higher-risk building;           a change to the number of storeys in
a proposed higher-risk building (including adding or removing a mezzanine or
gallery floor);           a change to the structural design or structural
loading of the building;           a change to the number or width of the
staircases in a proposed higher-risk building or a change to the length of any
other escape route or the number or width of any escape route (including
evacuation lift) within the proposed building;           a change to the
external wall of a proposed higher-risk building including a wall tie, wall
restraint fixing or support system in the wall;           a change to any part
of the active fire safety measures or passive fire safety measures in a
proposed higher-risk building referred to in the fire and emergency file;
a change to the layout or dimensions of the common parts within a proposed
higher-risk building;           subject to paragraph (2), a change of any
construction product or building element to be used in or on a proposed
higher-risk building such that its replacement is of a lower classification
under the reaction to fire classification (within the meaning in regulation
2(6) of the 2010 Regulations );           a change to any assumptions made in
the design of a proposed higher-risk building as set out in the Building
Regulations compliance statement;           a change proposing occupation of
any part of the proposed higher-risk building before all the work is
completed;           a change to the number of flats, residential rooms or
commercial units contained in a proposed higher-risk building;
in relation to work to existing HRB—         a change which is a material
change of use to any part of a higher-risk building;           a change of the
use of any part of a higher-risk building so that after the change the part of
the building is to have a use as a car park or cease to have a use as a car
park (whether the car park is for the occupiers of the building or otherwise);
a change which increases or decreases the external height or width of a
higher-risk building;           a change to the number of storeys in a higher-
risk building (including adding or removing a mezzanine or gallery floor);
a change to the structural design or structural loading of the building;
a change to the number or width of the staircases in a higher-risk building or
a change to the length of any other escape route or the number or width of any
escape route (including evacuation lift) within the building;           a
change to the external wall of a higher-risk building including a wall tie,
wall restraint fixing or support system in the wall;           a change to any
part of the active fire safety measures or passive fire safety measures in a
higher-risk building referred to in the fire and emergency file;           a
change to the layout or dimensions of the common parts within a higher-risk
building;           subject to paragraph (2), a change of any construction
product or building element to be used in or on a higher-risk building (or to
be used as part of works to a higher-risk building) such that its replacement
is of a lower classification under the reaction to fire classification (within
the meaning in regulation 2(6) of the 2010 Regulations);           a change to
any assumptions made in the design of a higher-risk building or works to a
higher-risk building as set out in the Building Regulations compliance
statement;           where the building or part of a building is not occupied
during the work, a change proposing occupation before all the work is
completed;           a change to the number of flats, residential rooms or
commercial units contained in a higher-risk building;                 a change
specified by the regulator as a major change by notice given in accordance
with regulation 25 (change control: regulator power to specify notifiable
changes and major changes);                 “ notifiable change ” means—
a change to the construction control plan other than a change to the schedule
of appointments contained within it;           a change to the change control
plan;           a change to the layout of a flat or a residential room in a
proposed higher-risk building or in a higher-risk building;           a change
to the number or dimensions of any openings in any wall, ceiling or other
building element for any pipe, duct or cable;           a change to the wall
tie, wall restraint fixing or support system in any wall or proposed wall
(excluding an external wall);           subject to paragraph (2), a change of
any construction product or building element to be used in or on a proposed
higher-risk building (or to be used as part of works to a higher-risk
building) where its replacement is of the same or higher classification under
the reaction to fire classification (within the meaning in regulation 2(6) of
the 2010 Regulations);           any other change to the fire and emergency
file or the fire safety compliance information;           a change specified
by the regulator as a notifiable change by notice given in accordance with
regulation 25 (change control: regulator power to specify notifiable changes
and major changes);           a change to the partial completion strategy;
a change to a staged work statement or a subsequent stages statement (as
defined in regulation 4(3)).

26.2

Where an agreed document specifies use of a construction product or building
element falling within a specified class, the change to another product or
element falling within the same design specification is a recordable change.

#### New client etc

27

27.1

Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), if, at any time after building control
approval for HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB is granted,
a person (in this regulation “C”) ceases to be the client in relation to the
work they must, not more than 14 days after the date they cease to be the
client, provide the new client (in this regulation “N”) with—

27.1.a

a copy of the golden thread information;

27.1.b

information (including plans, drawings and other documents) which is
sufficient to detail the work comprised in the project;

27.1.c

a document explaining the arrangements made under regulation 11A (suitable
arrangements to ensure compliance with requirements etc) of the 2010
Regulations;

27.1.d

a statement, signed by C, which—

27.1.d.i

provides the date C ceased to be the client, and

27.1.d.ii

confirms that—

27.1.d.ii.aa

C has fulfilled their duties as the client under Part 2A (dutyholders and
competence) of the 2010 Regulations,

27.1.d.ii.bb

C has provided a copy of the golden thread information to N, and

27.1.d.ii.cc

as far as C is aware, on the date they cease to be client, the design work,
and the building work (if any has been carried out by that date), complies
with all applicable requirements of the building regulations.

27.2

Subject to paragraph (3), N must—

27.2.a

within 28 days of the date when N becomes the client, give a notice to the
regulator which—

27.2.a.i

states the date N became the client;

27.2.a.ii

states the date when C ceased to be the client;

27.2.a.iii

confirms N has received the documents referred to in paragraph (1);

27.2.a.iv

confirms N is aware of the requirements imposed on a client by the building
regulations;

27.2.a.v

includes a copy of C’s statement under paragraph (1)(d), and

27.2.b

ensure—

27.2.b.i

a record is made of the change of client in the change control log;

27.2.b.ii

the construction control plan is revised, in accordance with regulation 18
(change control), to reflect the change.

27.3

Where N is not able—

27.3.a

to confirm they have received the documents referred to in paragraph (1), or

27.3.b

to provide a copy of C’s statement under paragraph (1)(d),

then the notice sent under paragraph (2)(a) must explain the reasons for not
providing the confirmation or not including a copy of the statement.

27.4

Where—

27.4.a

a trustee in bankruptcy has been appointed in relation to a client, or

27.4.b

C’s property (or any part of it that includes the HRB project) vests in a
liquidator under section 145 of the Insolvency Act 1986,

that person (IP) is not to be treated as a new client provided no building
work has been carried out since their appointment or vesting, and where IP
then disposes of C’s property to a new client paragraph (1) applies to IP as
if—

27.4.i

sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) (except paragraph (bb)) were omitted, and

27.4.ii

where they are not able to confirm they have the documents referred to in
paragraph (1)(a) then the notice sent under paragraph (2) by N must explain
the reasons for not providing the confirmation.

27.5

Where—

27.5.a

a deputy has been appointed by the Court of Protection in relation to C’s
property and financial affairs, or

27.5.b

a person has power of attorney in relation to C’s property and they intend to
act in the capacity of the client,

paragraph (6) applies instead of paragraph (1).

27.6

Where paragraph (5) applies, a person who has taken over as the client on
behalf of C must, within 28 days of taking any step as a client—

27.6.a

give a notice to the regulator which—

27.6.a.i

states the date they took over as the client on behalf of C;

27.6.a.ii

confirms they have—

27.6.a.ii.aa

a copy of the golden thread information;

27.6.a.ii.bb

information (including plans, drawings and other documents) which is
sufficient to detail the work comprised in the project;

27.6.a.ii.cc

a document explaining the arrangements made under regulation 11A (suitable
arrangements to ensure compliance with requirements etc) of the 2010
Regulations;

27.6.a.iii

confirms they are aware of the requirements imposed on a client by the
building regulations;

27.6.a.iv

includes a statement, signed by them, which confirms that as far as they are
aware, on the date of the notice, the design work, and the building work (if
any has been carried by that date), complies with all applicable requirements
of the building regulations, and

27.6.b

ensure—

27.6.b.i

a record is made of them taking over as the client on behalf of C in the
change control log;

27.6.b.ii

the construction control plan is revised, in accordance with regulation 18
(change control), to reflect the change.

27.7

Where the person who has taken over as the client on behalf of C is not able
to confirm they have the documents referred to in paragraph (6)(a)(ii) or make
the statement required by paragraph (6)(a)(iv) then the notice sent under
paragraph (6)(a) must explain the reasons for not providing the confirmation
or not providing the statement.

27.8

Subject to paragraph (9), where C dies, C’s personal representative (“ PR ”)
must, within 28 days of issue of grant to administer C’s estate give a notice
to the regulator which—

27.8.a

states the date of issue of grant to administer C’s estate,

27.8.b

states the date when C died,

27.8.c

confirms PR has—

27.8.c.i

a copy of the golden thread information,

27.8.c.ii

information (including plans, drawings and other documents) which is
sufficient to detail the work comprised in the project,

27.8.c.iii

a document explaining the arrangements made under regulation 11A (suitable
arrangements to ensure compliance with requirements etc) of the 2010
Regulations, and

27.8.d

states whether or not PR intends to act as the client in relation to the
project.

27.9

Where PR is not able to confirm they have the documents referred to in
paragraph (8)(c) then the notice sent under paragraph (8) must explain the
reasons for not providing the confirmation.

27.10

Where PR intends to act as the client in relation the project, PR must comply
with paragraph (2) (except paragraphs (iii), (iv) and (v) of sub-paragraph
(a)) and in the notice to be provided under paragraph (2) they must
additionally confirm they have—

27.10.a

a copy of the golden thread information,

27.10.b

information (including plans, drawings and other documents) which is
sufficient to detail the work comprised in the project; and

27.10.c

a document explaining the arrangements made under regulation 11A (suitable
arrangements to ensure compliance with requirements etc) of the 2010
Regulations.

27.11

Where PR is not able to confirm they have the documents referred to in
paragraph (10) then the notice referred to in paragraph (10) must explain the
reasons for not providing the confirmation.

27.12

For purposes of this regulation a person is to be treated as a new client
where a project is carried out for them instead of C but a person is not to be
regarded as a new client by reason solely of their purchase of, or their
entering into a contract to purchase, a legal interest in a dwelling created
or to be created in the higher-risk building.

27.13

For the purposes of section 35(2) of the 1984 Act (provisions for which
offence does not apply) paragraphs (6) and (8) are prescribed.

27.13A

For the purposes of section 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act (provisions for which
compliance notice may not be given) paragraphs (6) and (8) are prescribed.

27.14

The requirements of this regulation do not apply—

27.14.a

to a domestic client; or

27.14.b

to work to existing HRB which consists only of—

27.14.b.i

scheme work;

27.14.b.ii

exempt work, or

27.14.b.iii

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

#### Insolvency etc of the client: notifications

28

28.1

Where the client becomes aware that any of the circumstances referred to in
paragraph (2) apply in relation to them, the client must, not more than 14
days after that date, give a notice to the regulator which—

28.1.a

states that they are the client in relation to a project;

28.1.b

states the name and address of the client, and where the person is a company,
also the company registration number;

28.1.c

gives details which are sufficient to identify every project of the client
which relates to a higher-risk building;

28.1.d

provides so much of the information referred to in the table in rule 1.6 of
the Insolvency (England and Wales) Rules 2016 as is known to them  .

28.2

The circumstances mentioned in paragraph (1) are—

28.2.a

a moratorium under Part A1 of the Insolvency Act 1986  has commenced;

28.2.b

a voluntary arrangement for the purposes of Part 1 of the Insolvency Act 1986
has been proposed under that Part of the Act;

28.2.c

a voluntary arrangement for the purposes of Part 8 of the Insolvency Act 1986
has been proposed and has taken effect under that Part of the Act.

28.3

Subject to paragraph (5), where a person (“ P ”) described in paragraph (4) is
appointed in relation to the client then not more than 14 days after the date
P is appointed P must give a notice to the regulator which—

28.3.a

states the name and address of the client in relation to which the appointment
relates and gives details which are sufficient to identify every project of
the client which relates to a higher-risk building;

28.3.b

identifies the nature of the appointment held by P in relation to the client;

28.3.c

states the name, address, telephone number and email address (if any) of P;

28.3.d

provides so much of the information referred to in the table in rule 1.6 of
the Insolvency (England and Wales) Rules 2016 as is known to them.

28.4

The persons referred to in paragraph (3) are—

28.4.a

an administrator;

28.4.b

an administrative receiver;

28.4.c

a receiver appointed by the courts or by a mortgagee;

28.4.d

a liquidator;

28.4.e

a trustee in bankruptcy.

28.5

Where under section 178 or 315 of the Insolvency Act 1986 any property in
relation to a project is disclaimed, the person disclaiming the property must,
within the period of 28 days beginning with the date the disclaimer took
effect, give the regulator a copy of the notice of disclaimer under rule 19.2
of the Insolvency (England and Wales) Rules 2016.

28.6

For the purposes of section 35(2) of the 1984 Act (provisions for which
offence does not apply) paragraph (3) is prescribed.

28.6A

For the purposes of section 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act (provisions for which
compliance notice may not be given) paragraph (3) is prescribed.

28.7

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to a domestic client.

#### New principal contractor or principal designer etc: notification

29

29.1

This paragraph applies where, at any time after building control approval for
HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB is granted the client
appoints a principal contractor (or sole contractor) or principal designer (or
sole or lead designer).

29.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the client must give a notice, signed by the
client, to the regulator containing—

29.2.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
person appointed,

29.2.b

a statement that the client—

29.2.b.i

has complied with regulation 11E(2)(b) (consideration of past misconduct) of
the 2010 Regulations,

29.2.b.ii

is satisfied in the case of a principal contractor, that the person fulfils
the requirements in regulations 11F(1) and (2) and 11H(1) of the 2010
Regulations,

29.2.b.iii

is satisfied in the case of a principal designer, that the person fulfils the
requirements in regulations 11F(1) and (2) and 11G(1) of the 2010 Regulations,

29.2.b.iv

is satisfied in the case of a sole contractor, or sole or lead designer, that
the person fulfils the requirements in regulations 11F(1) and (2) of the 2010
Regulations,

29.2.c

in relation to each principal contractor or principal designer, a copy of the
record, in respect of the person, that the client created under regulation
11D(8) or (9) (principal designer and principial contractor) of the 2010
Regulations, and

29.2.d

a declaration as to the truth of the statement referred to in sub-paragraph
(b) and of the record (if any) referred to in sub-paragraph (c).

29.3

On request from the client, the person who was the principal contractor (or
sole contractor) or principal designer (or sole or lead designer), as the case
may be, before the appointment referred to in paragraph (1) must give the
client a statement in writing, signed and dated by them, which sets out—

29.3.a

their name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address,

29.3.b

the dates of their appointment,

29.3.c

subject to paragraph (d), a certificate that—

29.3.c.i

in the case of a person who was a principal contractor (or sole contractor),
that they have fulfilled their duties as a principal contractor under Part 2A
(dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations,

29.3.c.ii

in the case of a person who was principal designer (or sole or lead designer),
that they have fulfilled their duties as a principal designer under Part 2A
(dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations,

29.3.d

where a person is unable to certify that they have fulfilled their duties, a
statement explaining what duties they were unable to fulfil and the reasons
for not being able to do so.

29.4

The client must ensure the notice under paragraph (2) is accompanied by a copy
of a statement provided to them under paragraph (3).

29.5

Where, at the date a client gives the notice under paragraph (2), the client
is unable to obtain the statement under paragraph (3), the notice under
paragraph (2) must be accompanied by a statement by the client explaining the
steps the client has taken to obtain the statement together with any reasons
the person referred to in paragraph (3) has given for not providing the
statement.

29.6

The client must give the notice under paragraph (2) together with a copy of
the statement referred to in paragraph (3) or, if applicable, a statement
referred to in paragraph (5), to the regulator within the period of 14 days
beginning with the date of the appointment.

29.7

The client must ensure—

29.7.a

a record is made of the change of principal contractor (or sole contractor) or
principal designer (or sole or lead designer) in the change control log, and

29.7.b

the construction control plan is revised, in accordance with regulation 18
(change control), to reflect the change.

29.8

Where the client is a domestic client (DC), the following applies instead of
paragraphs (2) to (7)—

29.8.a

except where the person appointed (PA) is the first person appointed to the
role, the person who held the role before PA (“outgoing dutyholder”) must,
within five days of the date their appointment ends, give the DC a notice
which sets out—

29.8.a.i

their name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address;

29.8.a.ii

the date their appointment ended;

29.8.a.iii

subject to paragraph (b), a certificate that—

29.8.a.iii.aa

in the case of a person who was a principal contractor (or sole contractor),
that they fulfilled their duties as a principal contractor under Part 2A
(dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations;

29.8.a.iii.bb

in the case of a person who was principal designer (or sole or lead designer),
that they fulfilled their duties as a principal designer under Part 2A
(dutyholders and competence) of the 2010 Regulations;

29.8.b

where the outgoing dutyholder is unable to certify that they fulfilled their
duties, a statement explaining what duties they were unable to fulfil and the
reasons for not being able to do so;

29.8.c

DC must provide the information referred to under sub-paragraph (a) and, as
the case may be, (b) to PA on the date of appointment of PA or as soon as
practicable after that date;

29.8.d

subject to paragraph (10), PA must give a notice to the regulator which
includes—

29.8.d.i

the location of the building work;

29.8.d.ii

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of PA and
the date of appointment;

29.8.d.iii

except where PA is the first person appointed to the role, the name, address,
telephone number and (if available) email address of the outgoing dutyholder
and the date their appointment ended;

29.8.d.iv

a statement explaining the notice is given on behalf of a domestic client.

29.9

PA must ensure the notice under paragraph (8)(d) is accompanied by a copy of a
certificate provided to them under paragraph (8)(a) or a statement provided to
them under paragraph (8)(b).

29.10

Where PA has not received the information required to be provided under
paragraph (8)(c) by the time the notice under paragraph (8)(d) is to be given,
the statement given by PA under paragraph (8)(d)(iv) must also include an
explanation to that effect.

29.11

A notice required under paragraph (8)(d) must be given to the regulator within
the period of 14 days beginning with the date of the appointment.

29.12

PA must ensure—

29.12.a

a record is made of the change of principal contractor (or sole contractor) or
principal designer (or sole or lead designer) in the change control log, and

29.12.b

the construction control plan is revised, in accordance with regulation 18
(change control), to reflect the change.

#### Variation of a requirement imposed on a building control approval

30

30.1

In relation to HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB, a client
may request, by notice in writing, that the regulator vary a requirement
imposed on a building control approval.

30.2

A notice under paragraph (1) must be made in writing, signed by the client,
and must include—

30.2.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client,

30.2.b

a statement that the notice is given under this regulation,

30.2.c

a description of the proposed variation,

30.2.d

an explanation of the reasons why the variation is proposed,

30.2.e

a list of the name and occupation of each person, if any, whose advice was
sought in relation to the proposed variation and a summary of any advice
provided.

30.3

Where the notice under paragraph (1) is given by someone on behalf of the
client, it must include a statement signed by the client confirming they agree
to the notice being given and that the information contained in the
application is correct.

30.4

Where the regulator receives a notice under paragraph (1) the regulator must
determine whether to grant the variation within 28 days of receipt of the
notice or within such longer period as at any time the regulator and the
person giving the notice agree in writing.

30.5

Where the regulator has not determined whether to grant the variation before
the expiry of the period provided for in paragraph (4) then the variation is
treated as refused by the regulator.

30.6

Where a requirement is varied the regulator must give the client a notice
setting out the requirement as varied.

30.7

If requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the
notice.

30.8

Where the regulator does not agree to the variation the regulator must notify
the client giving reasons.

### Golden thread, mandatory occurrence reporting, information handover etc

#### Golden thread

31

31.1

The arrangements made by a client under regulation 11A (suitable arrangements
to ensure compliance with requirements etc) of the 2010 Regulations must
include—

31.1.a

where the work is HRB work or a stage of HRB work—

31.1.a.i

arrangements for an electronic facility to be created and maintained by the
client (or someone on their behalf) for the purpose of holding the golden
thread information;

31.1.a.ii

procedures for persons involved with designing or carrying out the work to
have access to the facility for the purpose of maintaining the golden thread
information in the facility;

31.1.b

where the work is work to existing HRB—

31.1.b.i

arrangements for an electronic facility which holds the golden thread
information to be maintained by the client (or someone on their behalf) for
the purpose of updating the golden thread information in relation to the work;

31.1.b.ii

procedures for persons involved with designing or carrying out the work to
have access to the facility for the purpose of maintaining the golden thread
information in the facility.

31.2

The client must ensure the golden thread information—

31.2.a

is kept in an electronic format,

31.2.b

is capable of being transferred electronically to other persons without the
data, information or document in it being lost or corrupted,

31.2.c

is accurate and up to date,

31.2.d

is available in a readable format which is intelligible to the intended
readers of the data, and any key needed to understand the data is provided
with the data,

31.2.e

is made available as soon as reasonably practicable following a request from a
principal designer (or sole or lead designer) or principal contractor (or sole
contractor) to enable them to comply with their requirements under the
building regulations,

31.2.f

is secure from unauthorised access,

31.2.g

is only changed in accordance with procedures which record the person who made
the change and the date of that change, and

31.2.h

as far as is reasonably practicable uses language, terminology and definitions
which are consistent.

31.3

The principal designer (or sole or lead designer) must ensure designs for the
building work produced before a building control approval application for HRB
work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB is submitted are provided to
the client and the client must ensure, before the construction phase begins
(or, in the case of a stage of HRB work, that stage begins), the facility
referred to in paragraph (1) is updated to include the design.

31.4

Where building control approval for HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to
existing HRB is granted the client must ensure, before the construction phase
begins (or, in the case of a stage of HRB work, that stage begins), the
facility referred to in paragraph (1) includes—

31.4.a

a copy of the fire statement in relation to the higher-risk building or
proposed higher-risk building,

31.4.b

where the work is HRB work or a stage of HRB work, a copy of the plans and
each of the other documents for the proposed higher-risk building which are
approved under regulation 7(8)(b) (building control approval applications for
HRB work or stage of HRB work: decisions) together with all the evidence
recorded to show compliance with the applicable requirements of the building
regulations, and

31.4.c

where the work is work to existing HRB, a copy of the plans and each of the
other documents for the work which are approved under regulation 15(8)(b)
(building control approval applications for work to existing HRB: decisions)
together with all the evidence recorded to show compliance with the applicable
requirements of the building regulations.

31.5

Where regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing HRB)
applies in relation the work, the client must ensure a copy of the notice
required under regulation 10(1)(a) is included in the facility referred to in
paragraph (1).

31.6

Where an agreed document is provided or approved under the terms of a
requirement imposed on the grant of a building control approval under—

31.6.a

regulation 7 (building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of
HRB work: decisions);

31.6.b

regulation 15 (building control approval applications for work to existing
HRB: decisions);

31.6.c

regulation 24 (change control applications: decisions),

the client must ensure the facility referred to in paragraph (1) is updated to
include a copy of that agreed document as soon as practicable after the
document is provided or approved.

31.7

Where a controlled change is proposed the client must ensure a copy of the
record required to be made under regulation 18(2)(a) (change control) is
included in the facility referred to in paragraph (1) as soon as practicable
after the change is recorded and where the proposed change is not carried out
the facility referred to in paragraph (1) must be updated with a note to that
effect.

31.8

Where a controlled change is proposed and an agreed document is affected by
the change, the client must ensure a copy of the revised version of the
document required to be produced under regulation 18(2)(b) (change control) is
included in the facility referred to in paragraph (1) as soon as practicable
after the revised version is produced and where the proposed change is not
carried out the facility referred to in paragraph (1) must be updated with a
note to that effect.

31.9

Where a notice is given under regulation 29 (new principal contractor or
principal designer etc: notification), the client must ensure the facility
referred to in paragraph (1) is updated to include a copy of the notice and
any statement which accompanied that notice as soon as practicable after the
notice is given.

31.10

Where a written report is provided to the regulator under regulation 33
(mandatory occurrence reporting: reporting to the regulator), the client must
ensure the facility referred to in paragraph (1) is updated to include a copy
of that report as soon as practicable after the report is provided.

31.11

Where the client proposes to make a completion certificate application or a
partial completion certificate application they must ensure the facility
referred to in paragraph (1) is updated to include a copy of the proposed
application and a copy of each document which it is proposed will accompany
the application.

31.12

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

31.12.a

scheme work, or

31.12.b

exempt work.

31.13

In this regulation—

      “ fire statement ” means any statement in relation to the higher-risk
building or proposed higher-risk building submitted in accordance with article
9A of the Town and Country Planning (Development Management Procedure)
(England) Order 2015 ;           “ golden thread information ” means the
information required by this regulation to be included in the facility
referred to in paragraph (1), including previous versions of any document
which has been updated.

#### Mandatory occurrence reporting system

32

32.1

The principal dutyholders  must—

32.1.a

before the construction phase begins, establish a system which enables as far
as is reasonably practicable the prompt reporting of every safety occurrence
to the principal dutyholders by reporting persons, and

32.1.b

maintain the system throughout the construction phase.

32.2

The principal dutyholders must take reasonable steps to ensure each reporting
person is provided with adequate instruction and information on the system
established by virtue of paragraph (1) and the incidents or situations that
should be reported by the reporting person through the system—

32.2.a

in the case of a designer or contractor, before beginning any work;

32.2.b

in the case of any other person, as soon as reasonably practicable after first
entering the site of the work.

32.3

The principal contractor (or sole contractor) must ensure an appropriate
frequency of inspections of the work for safety occurrences throughout the
construction phase.

32.4

The principal designer (or sole or lead designer) must ensure an appropriate
frequency of inspections of HRB design work for safety occurrences throughout
the construction phase.

32.5

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

32.5.a

exempt work, or

32.5.b

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

#### Mandatory occurrence reporting: reporting to the regulator

33

33.1

Where there is a safety occurrence during the construction phase, a principal
dutyholder must follow the reporting procedure on becoming aware of the
occurrence.

33.2

For the purposes of this regulation, “ the reporting procedure ” means—

33.2.a

notifying the regulator of the safety occurrence by the quickest practicable
means without undue delay, and

33.2.b

providing a written report of the occurrence containing the required
information (as set out in paragraph (3)) to the regulator within the period
of 10 days beginning with the date the principal dutyholder becomes aware of
the safety occurrence.

33.3

The required information referred to in paragraph (2) is—

33.3.a

the date and time of the safety occurrence;

33.3.b

the address of the site at which the occurrence happened;

33.3.c

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) an email address of the
principal dutyholder making the report;

33.3.d

the type and details of the occurrence (including the nature of the risk);

33.3.e

details of remedial measures or mitigation carried out.

33.4

Information provided by a person under the reporting procedure is not
admissible in evidence against that person in criminal proceedings except—

33.4.a

in proceedings for an offence under section 35 of the 1984 Act (offence of
contravening building regulations etc) relating to breach of the duty in
paragraph (1),

33.4.b

in proceedings for an offence under section 24 of the 2022 Act (provision of
false or misleading information to regulator),

33.4.c

in proceedings for an offence of perverting the course of justice, or

33.4.d

if in the proceedings—

33.4.d.i

in giving evidence the person makes a statement inconsistent with the
information, and

33.4.d.ii

evidence as to the information that was provided is adduced, or a question
relating to it is asked, by or on behalf of the person.

33.5

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

33.5.a

exempt work, or

33.5.b

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

#### Mandatory occurrence reporting: defences

34

Where a principal dutyholder has committed an offence under section 35 of the
1984 Act of contravening these Regulations by failing to follow the reporting
procedure in relation to a safety occurrence as required by regulation 33
(mandatory occurrence reporting: reporting to the regulator), it is a defence
for the principal dutyholder if it reasonably believed that the other
principal dutyholder had—

34.a

already notified the regulator of the safety occurrence under regulation 33,
and

34.b

already provided the regulator with a written report of the safety occurrence
under regulation 33.

#### Mandatory occurrence reporting: definitions

35

In regulations 32 to 34—

      “ construction phase ” means the period of time beginning when the HRB
work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB starts and ending when the
work is completed;           “ HRB design work ” means design of any HRB work,
stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB;           “ principal dutyholders ”
means the principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer
(or sole or lead designer);           “ reporting person ” means—         any
designer (including the principal designer),           any contractor
(including the principal contractor), and           any other person who is a
periodic visitor on the site of work;                 “ safety occurrence ”
means—         in relation to a design, an aspect of the design relating to
the structural integrity or fire safety of a higher-risk building that would,
if built, meet the risk condition;           otherwise, an incident or
situation relating to the structural integrity or fire safety of a higher-risk
building that meets the risk condition.

35.2

In the definition of “safety occurrence”, the “risk condition” is that use of
the building in question without the incident or situation being remedied
would be likely to present a risk of a significant number of deaths, or
serious injury to a significant number of people.

#### Mandatory occurrence reporting: regulator’s annual report

36

Regulation 33(1) (mandatory occurrence reporting: reporting to the regulator)
is prescribed for the purposes of section 19(2)(b) of the 2022 Act.

#### Mandatory occurrence reporting: client duty on appointment of principal contractor or principal designer

37

Where, in relation to HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB,
the client appoints a principal contractor (or sole contractor) or principal
designer (or sole or lead designer), then the client must take all reasonable
steps to satisfy itself that the person appointed is able to fulfil the
requirements in regulations 32 (mandatory occurrence reporting system) and 33
(mandatory occurrence reporting: reporting to the regulator).

#### Handover of information on completion etc

38

38.1

The client for HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB must
give—

38.1.a

the BFLO information; and

38.1.b

the specified golden thread information,

to the relevant person no later than the date the work is completed, or where
regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) applies no later than the date
the part of the building is to be occupied.

38.2

The golden thread information given under paragraph (1) must be provided in
such a way as to retain the filing structure in which it was kept, including
each index, key or other information logically associated with it and in a
format which enables the relevant person to read, keep and update the
information.

38.3

The relevant person must give the client a notice acknowledging receipt of the
specified golden thread information which confirms—

38.3.a

they are able to access the information, and

38.3.b

the information provided is sufficient to enable them to understand, operate
and maintain the building (and the fire safety systems in it) after the
building work.

38.4

The requirements of paragraph (1) do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

38.4.a

scheme work;

38.4.b

exempt work, or

38.4.c

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

38.5

In this regulation—

      “ BFLO information ” means—         where Part B of Schedule 1 to the
2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in relation to the work, the fire
safety information;           where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 to the 2010
Regulations imposes a requirement in relation to the work, sufficient
information about the building’s ventilation system and its maintenance
requirements so that the ventilation system can be operated in such a manner
as to provide adequate means of ventilation;           where paragraph L1 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in relation to the
work, sufficient information about the building, the fixed building services
and their maintenance requirements so that the building can be operated in
such a manner as to use no more fuel and power than is reasonable in the
circumstances;           where paragraph L2 of Schedule 1 to the 2010
Regulations applies in relation to the work, sufficient information about the
system for on-site electricity generation in respect of its operation and
maintenance requirements so that the system may be operated and maintained in
such a manner as to produce the maximum electricity that is reasonable in the
circumstances and delivers this electricity to the optimal place for use; and
where Part O of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations applies in relation to the
work, sufficient information about the provision made in accordance with Part
O so that the systems in place further to Part O can be operated in such a
manner as to protect against overheating;                 “ relevant person ”
means—         where, after building work is completed, a building is not a
higher-risk building for the purposes of Part 4 of the 2022 Act, the
responsible person for the building;           in any other case, the
accountable person for the part of the building to which the work relates  and
the responsible person (if any) for the building;                 “
responsible person ” has the meaning given in article 3 of the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ;           “ specified golden thread
information ” means—         in relation to cases where regulation 45 applies,
a copy of —         the partial completion certificate application in relation
to the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or, as the case may be, work to
existing HRB which the client proposes to make, and           each document
which under regulation 45 (partial completion certificate applications) is
required to accompany the application;                 in relation to any
other case, a copy of—         the completion certificate application in
relation to the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or, as the case may be, work
to existing HRB which the client proposes to make; and           each document
which under regulation 40 (completion certificate applications) is required to
accompany the application.

#### Information to be provided where work is scheme work

39

39.1

Where work to existing HRB consists only of scheme work and Part B of Schedule
1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in relation to the work, the
certifier must give the fire safety information to the client and the
responsible person no later than—

39.1.a

where the building to which the building work relates is not occupied during
the work, the date of completion of the work or the date of occupation of the
building, whichever is the earlier;

39.1.b

in any other case, the date of completion of the work.

39.2

The responsible person must give the certifier a notice acknowledging receipt
of the fire safety information and confirming the information provided is
sufficient to enable them to understand, operate and maintain the building
(and the fire safety systems in it) after the building work in question and
give a copy of that notice at the same time to the client.

39.3

The certifier must notify the client—

39.3.a

confirming that they have given fire safety information to the responsible
person, and

39.3.b

stating that they have received a notice from the responsible person pursuant
to paragraph (2) or where they have not received the notice, stating the steps
taken to obtain the notice from the responsible person and the dates they were
taken.

39.4

The notification under paragraph (3) must be given no later than 7 days after
the date referred to in paragraph (1).

39.5

Within 30 days of receiving the notification under paragraph (4) the client
must notify the regulator confirming receipt of the notification from the
certifier.

39.6

Where work to existing HRB consists only of scheme work and paragraph F1(1) of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in relation to the
work, the certifier must, not later than five days after the work has been
completed, give sufficient information to the client and the responsible
person about the building’s ventilation system and its maintenance
requirements so that the ventilation system can be operated in such a manner
as to provide adequate means of ventilation.

39.7

Where work to existing HRB consists only of scheme work and paragraph L1 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in relation to the
work, the certifier must, not later than five days after the work has been
completed, provide to the client and the responsible person sufficient
information about the building, the fixed building services and their
maintenance requirements so that the building can be operated in such a manner
as to use no more fuel and power than is reasonable in the circumstances.

39.8

Where work to existing HRB consists only of scheme work and paragraph L2 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations applies in relation to the work, the
certifier must, not later than five days after the work has been completed,
provide to the client and the responsible person sufficient information about
the system for on-site electricity generation in respect of its operation and
maintenance requirements so that the system may be operated and maintained in
such a manner as to produce the maximum electricity that is reasonable in the
circumstances and delivers this electricity to the optimal place for use.

39.9

In this regulation—

      “ certifier ” means—         where the work is described in column 1 of
the Table in Schedule 3 to the 2010 Regulations and the work is to be carried
out by a person described in the corresponding entry in column 2 of that
Table, the person carrying out the work;           where the work is described
in column 1 of the Table in Schedule 3A to the 2010 Regulations and the work
is to be inspected by a person described in the corresponding entry in column
2 of that Table who has been appointed by the person intending to carry out
the work, the person inspecting the work;                 “ fire safety
information ” means information relating to—         the design and
construction of the building and the services, fittings and equipment provided
in or in connection with the building;           the design of the material
change of use and building work to implement it;           the composition of
materials used,         which will assist the responsible person to operate
and maintain the building with reasonable safety;           “ responsible
person ” has the meaning given in article 3 of the Regulatory Reform (Fire
Safety) Order 2005.

### Completion certificates

#### Completion certificate applications

40

40.1

An application for a completion certificate in relation to HRB work, a stage
of HRB work or work to existing HRB (“a completion certificate application”)
must be made in writing to the regulator, signed by the client (in this Part
“the applicant”), and must include—

40.1.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client;

40.1.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer);

40.1.c

a statement that the application is made under this regulation;

40.1.d

a description of the work, as built, including—

40.1.d.i

the location of the higher-risk building;

40.1.d.ii

details of the use or intended use of the higher-risk building, including the
use or intended use of each storey;

40.1.d.iii

the height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance with
regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023 ;

40.1.d.iv

the number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

40.1.d.v

the number of flats, the number of residential rooms and the number of
commercial units contained in the higher-risk building;

40.1.d.vi

the provision made for the drainage of the higher-risk building;

40.1.d.vii

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement, the precautions taken in building over a drain, sewer or disposal
main to comply with the requirements of that paragraph;

40.1.d.viii

the steps taken to comply with any local enactment that applies;

40.1.e

a statement, signed by the client, confirming that to the best of the client’s
knowledge—

40.1.e.i

in the case of HRB work, the higher-risk building, as built, complies with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations;

40.1.e.ii

in the case of a stage of HRB work, the stage, as built, complies with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations;

40.1.e.iii

in the case of work to existing HRB, the work, as built, complies with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations;

40.1.f

a statement, signed by both the client and the relevant person, confirming
that the information to be provided to the relevant person in accordance with
regulation 38 (handover of information on completion etc) has been given and
the relevant person has received the information.

40.2

A completion certificate application must be accompanied by—

40.2.a

a notice stating the date on which the building work was completed,

40.2.b

a plan to a scale of not less than 1:1250 showing—

40.2.b.i

the size and position of the higher-risk building and its relationship to
adjoining boundaries;

40.2.b.ii

the boundaries of the curtilage of the building, and the size, position and
use of every other building within the curtilage;

40.2.b.iii

the width and position of any street on or within the boundaries of the
curtilage of the building;

40.2.c

such other plans that are necessary to show that the HRB work, a stage of HRB
work or work to existing HRB complied with all applicable requirements of the
building regulations;

40.2.d

the following agreed documents—

40.2.d.i

the construction control plan;

40.2.d.ii

the change control plan;

40.2.d.iii

the mandatory occurrence reporting plan;

40.2.d.iv

the Building Regulations compliance statement;

40.2.d.v

a fire and emergency file,

or, where regulation 12(3) (building control approval applications for work to
existing HRB) applies, such of the documents referred to in paragraphs (i) to
(v) as were approved under regulation 15 (building control approval
applications for work to existing HRB: decisions);

40.2.e

a copy of the change control log updated to show all the changes for the
project required by these Regulations to be included in the log,

40.2.f

subject to paragraph (3), a compliance declaration signed by—

40.2.f.i

each principal contractor (or sole contractor) for the HRB work, the stage of
HRB work or work to existing HRB, and

40.2.f.ii

each principal designer (or sole or lead designer) for the HRB work, the stage
of HRB work or work to existing HRB,

if such a statement was not already provided to the regulator, in relation to
that part of the work, under regulation 29 (new principal contractor or
principal designer etc: notification);

40.2.g

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct.

40.3

Where a client is unable to ensure the person mentioned in paragraph (2)(f)
provides a compliance declaration, the completion certificate application must
be accompanied by a statement by the client giving the reasons why the
declaration has not been provided.

40.4

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

40.4.a

scheme work;

40.4.b

exempt work, or

40.4.c

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

40.5

In this regulation, “ compliance declaration ” means a document, signed by the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) or the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer) to which the declaration relates, that includes—

40.5.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of that
person;

40.5.b

the dates of their appointment, and

40.5.c

a statement confirming—

40.5.c.i

in the case of a principal contractor (or sole contractor), that they
fulfilled their duties as a principal contractor under Part 2A (dutyholders
and competence) of the 2010 Regulations;

40.5.c.ii

in the case of a principal designer (or sole or lead designer), that they
fulfilled their duties as a principal designer under Part 2A (dutyholders and
competence) of the 2010 Regulations.

#### Completion certificate applications: validity and time limit

41

41.1

Where the regulator receives a completion certificate application in relation
to HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB which is valid the
regulator must—

41.1.a

notify the applicant to that effect, and

41.1.b

determine it within 8 weeks beginning with the date the application is
received by the regulator or within such longer period as at any time the
regulator and the applicant agree in writing.

41.2

Where the regulator receives a completion certificate application which is not
valid the regulator must notify the applicant to that effect giving reasons
(and where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the
notification to the client).

41.3

A completion certificate application is valid if it complies with regulation
40 (completion certificate applications).

#### Completion certificate applications: consultation

42

42.1

Before determining a completion certificate application the regulator must
consult—

42.1.a

where the work to which the application relates is—

42.1.a.i

HRB work or a stage of HRB work,

42.1.a.ii

category A work, or

42.1.a.iii

category B work and Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes
requirements in relation to the work,

the enforcing authority (within the meaning of article 25 of the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005) for the building, and

42.1.b

the sewerage undertaker for the building where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to
2010 Regulations imposes requirements in relation to the work to which the
application relates.

42.2

Where the regulator is required to consult a person under this regulation the
regulator—

42.2.a

must give the person sufficient plans to show whether the work, as built,
complies with—

42.2.a.i

in the case of the enforcing authority, the applicable requirements of Part B
(fire safety) of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations;

42.2.a.ii

in the case of the sewerage undertaker, the requirements of paragraph H4 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations;

42.2.b

must not determine the application until the expiry of a period of 15 working
days beginning with the date the consultation starts or such longer period as
the regulator and the person consulted agree in writing.

42.3

In relation to the consultation under paragraph (1)(a) the plans given must
include the fire and emergency file or, where the work to which the
application relates is category B work, the fire safety compliance
information.

42.4

If all persons consulted express their views before the end of the period
referred to in paragraph (2)(b) then the prohibition against determining the
application ceases to apply on the day after the date on which their views are
received by the regulator.

42.5

The regulator is not required to consult under this regulation where it is
satisfied following consideration of the application there are sufficient
grounds to reject the application.

42.6

In this regulation, “category A work” and “category B work” have the meanings
given in regulation 12 (building control approval applications for work to
existing HRB).

#### Completion certificate applications: inspection

43

Before determining a completion certificate application the regulator must
arrange an inspection of the completed HRB work, stage of HRB work or work to
existing HRB for the purpose of assessing whether the work complies with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations.

#### Completion certificate applications: decisions

44

44.1

The regulator must approve a completion certificate application and issue a
completion certificate, if it is satisfied, after taking all reasonable steps,
that—

44.1.a

HRB work, stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB is completed and complies
with all applicable requirements of the building regulations;

44.1.b

the documents and information listed in regulation 40(2)(a) to (d) (completion
certificate applications) and submitted as part of the completion certificate
application are complete and accurate;

44.1.c

the information required to be provided to the relevant person in accordance
with regulation 38 (handover of information on completion etc) is complete and
has been provided.

44.2

If the regulator is not satisfied in accordance with paragraph (1) it must
reject the completion certificate application.

44.3

The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the application (and
where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to
the client) within the period referred to in regulation 41 (completion
certificate applications: validity and time limit).

44.4

A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for
rejection.

44.5

If the application is approved the regulator must issue a completion
certificate for the higher-risk building at the same time as giving the notice
of its decision under paragraph (3).

44.6

If requested by the applicant or the relevant person, the regulator must
provide a paper copy of the completion certificate.

44.7

A certificate issued under this regulation is evidence (but not conclusive
evidence) that all applicable requirements of the building regulations have
been complied with in relation to the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or, as
the case may be, the work to existing HRB.

44.8

The certificate must include a statement describing its evidentiary effect, in
terms substantially the same as paragraph (7).

44.9

When the completion certificate application is approved the client must ensure
the relevant person (as defined in regulation 38 (handover of information on
completion etc)) is sent—

44.9.a

a copy of the completion certificate application and each of the other
documents which accompanied the application, and

44.9.b

a copy of the completion certificate.

#### Partial completion certificates

45

45.1

This regulation applies where—

45.1.a

HRB work or a stage of HRB work is being carried out in relation to a building
and the building (or any part of it) is to be occupied before completion of
the work;

45.1.b

work to existing HRB is being carried out in relation to a building and before
completion of the work—

45.1.b.i

any part of the building which ceased to be occupied in order for the work to
be carried out is to be re-occupied, or

45.1.b.ii

any new unit created by the work is to be occupied before completion of the
work.

45.2

Where this regulation applies, before the occupation referred to in paragraph
(1) the client must make an application for a completion certificate in
relation to part of the work for the building (“partial completion certificate
application”) in writing to the regulator, signed by the client (in this
regulation “the applicant”), the application must include—

45.2.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client;

45.2.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer);

45.2.c

a statement that the application is made under this regulation;

45.2.d

a plan showing the part of the building to which the application relates
indicating the intended use of that part and the location of the flats (if
any) to be occupied or residential rooms (if any) to be occupied;

45.2.e

a description of the part of the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to
existing HRB that remains to be completed after the date on which the
application is made;

45.2.f

a description of the part of the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to
existing HRB to which the application relates, including—

45.2.f.i

the location of the higher-risk building;

45.2.f.ii

details of the use or intended use of the higher-risk building, including the
use or intended use of each storey;

45.2.f.iii

the height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance with
regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023 ;

45.2.f.iv

the number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

45.2.f.v

the number of flats, the number of residential rooms and the number of
commercial units contained in the higher-risk building;

45.2.f.vi

the provision made for the drainage of the higher-risk building;

45.2.f.vii

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement, the precautions taken in building over a drain, sewer or disposal
main to comply with the requirements of that paragraph;

45.2.f.viii

the steps taken to comply with any local enactment that applies;

45.2.g

a statement, signed by the client, confirming that to the best of the client’s
knowledge the part of the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to existing
HRB to which the application relates complies with all applicable requirements
of the building regulations;

45.2.h

a statement, signed by both the client and the relevant person, confirming
that the information, as at the date on which the application is made, to be
provided in accordance with regulation 38 (handover of information on
completion etc) has been given and the relevant person has received the
information;

45.2.i

a statement (“partial occupation statement”) setting out a detailed
description of the proposed stages of the work (including an estimate of the
time when each stage of the work will start).

45.3

A partial completion certificate application must be accompanied by—

45.3.a

a plan to a scale of not less than 1:1250 showing—

45.3.a.i

the size and position of the higher-risk building, together with the part of
the HRB work, the stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB to which the
application relates, and the building’s relationship to adjoining boundaries;

45.3.a.ii

the boundaries of the curtilage of the building, and the size, position and
use of every other building within the curtilage;

45.3.a.iii

the width and position of any street on or within the boundaries of the
curtilage of the building;

45.3.b

such other plans that are necessary to show that the part of the HRB work, the
stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB to which the application relates
complied with all applicable requirements of the building regulations;

45.3.c

the following agreed documents—

45.3.c.i

the construction control plan;

45.3.c.ii

the change control plan;

45.3.c.iii

a mandatory occurrence reporting plan;

45.3.c.iv

the Building Regulations compliance statement;

45.3.c.v

a fire and emergency file;

or, where regulation 12(3) (building control approval applications for work to
existing HRB) applies, such of the documents referred to in paragraphs (i) to
(v) as were approved under regulation 15 (building control approval
applications for work to existing HRB: decisions);

45.3.d

a copy of the change control log updated, up to the date on which the
application is made, to show all the changes for the project required by these
Regulations to be included in the log;

45.3.e

subject to paragraph (4), a compliance declaration signed by—

45.3.e.i

each principal contractor (or sole contractor) for the HRB work, the stage of
HRB work or work to existing HRB, and

45.3.e.ii

each principal designer (or sole or lead designer) for the HRB work, the stage
of HRB work or work to existing HRB,

if such a statement was not already provided to the regulator, in relation to
that part of the work, under regulation 29 (new principal contractor or
principal designer etc: notification);

45.3.f

a partial completion strategy;

45.3.g

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct.

45.4

Where a client is unable to ensure the person mentioned in paragraph (3)(e)
provides a compliance declaration, the partial completion certificate
application must be accompanied by a statement by the client giving the
reasons why the declaration has not been provided.

45.5

Where the regulator receives a partial completion certificate application
which is valid the regulator must—

45.5.a

notify the applicant to that effect, and

45.5.b

determine it within 8 weeks beginning with the date the application is
received by the regulator or within such longer period as at any time the
regulator and the applicant agree in writing.

45.6

Where the regulator receives a partial completion certificate application
which is not valid the regulator must notify the applicant to that effect
giving reasons (and where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of
the notification to the client).

45.7

A partial completion certificate application is valid if it complies with
paragraphs (2) to (4).

45.8

Before determining a partial completion certificate application the regulator
must—

45.8.a

comply with regulation 42(1) to (3) (completion certificates applications:
consultation), as modified by paragraph (9);

45.8.b

comply with regulation 43(1) (completion certificates applications:
inspection) as modified by paragraph (9).

45.9

Regulations 42 (completion certificates applications: consultation) and 44
(completion certificates applications: inspection) and Schedule 1 have effect
with the following modifications—

45.9.a

any reference to as built is to be treated as a reference to as completed at
the date on which the application is made;

45.9.b

any reference to HRB work is to be treated as a reference to the part of the
HRB work to which the application relates;

45.9.c

any reference to work to existing HRB is to be treated as a reference to the
part of work to existing HRB to which the application relates;

45.9.d

any reference to a higher-risk building is to be treated as a reference to the
building to which HRB work, the stage to HRB work or work to existing HRB is
being carried out.

45.10

The regulator must approve the partial completion certificate application and
issue a partial completion certificate, if it is satisfied, after taking all
reasonable steps, that—

45.10.a

the part of the HRB work or work to existing HRB which the application relates
complies with all applicable requirements of the building regulations and the
part of the building to be occupied before completion of the HRB work or work
to existing HRB complies with all applicable requirements of the building
regulations;

45.10.b

the documents and information listed in paragraphs (2) and (3) and submitted
as part of the application are complete and accurate;

45.10.c

the information, as at the date on which the application is made, to be
provided to the relevant person in accordance with regulation 38 (handover of
information on completion etc) has been given.

45.11

If the regulator is not satisfied in accordance with paragraph (10) it must
reject the partial completion certificate application.

45.12

The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the application (and
where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to
the client) within the period referred to in paragraph (5).

45.13

A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for
rejection.

45.14

If the application is approved the regulator must issue a partial completion
certificate for the building at the same time as giving the notice of its
decision under paragraph (12).

45.15

If requested by the applicant or the relevant person, the regulator must
provide a paper copy of the partial completion certificate.

45.16

A certificate issued under this regulation is evidence (but not conclusive
evidence) that all applicable requirements have been complied with in relation
to the part of the HRB work or work to existing HRB to which the certificate
relates.

45.17

The certificate must include a statement describing its evidentiary effect, in
terms substantially the same as paragraph (16).

45.18

When the partial completion certificate application is approved the client
must ensure the relevant person (as defined in regulation 38 (handover of
information on completion etc) is sent—

45.18.a

a copy of the partial completion certificate application and each of the other
documents which accompanied the application, and

45.18.b

a copy of the partial completion certificate.

45.19

The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which
consists only of—

45.19.a

scheme work;

45.19.b

exempt work, or

45.19.c

work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing
HRB) applies.

### Inspections etc, regularisation, review of decisions, appeals and section 30A procedures etc

#### Inspections etc

46

In relation to any building or proposed building for which the regulator is
the building control authority, the regulator may take such steps as it
considers appropriate to check compliance with all applicable requirements of
the building regulations, including—

46.a

requiring information;

46.b

requiring the laying open of building work for inspection by the regulator;

46.c

requiring an inspection to be undertaken and the record of the inspection
provided.

#### Regularisation of unauthorised building work

47

47.1

This regulation applies where it appears to the regulator that unauthorised
building work has been carried out on or after 11th November 1985.

47.2

Where this regulation applies, the owner (in this regulation referred to as “
the applicant ”) may make an application in writing to the regulator in
relation to the unauthorised building work (“regularisation certificate
application”).

47.3

No regularisation certificate application may be made where unauthorised
building work is a major change.

47.4

The regularisation certificate application must be accompanied by—

47.4.a

a statement that the application is made in accordance with this regulation,

47.4.b

a description of the unauthorised building work,

47.4.c

a plan of the unauthorised building work,

47.4.d

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the owner, a statement
signed by the owner confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct.

47.5

Where the regulator receives a regularisation certificate application, it may
require the applicant to take such steps as the regulator thinks appropriate
for the regulator to ascertain whether additional building work may be
required in order for the unauthorised building work to secure compliance with
all applicable requirements of the building regulations.

47.6

Where the regulator is satisfied that additional building work is required to
secure that the unauthorised building work satisfies the applicable
requirements (taking account of any dispensation or relaxation given in
accordance with sections 8 and 9 of, and Schedule 2 to, the 1984 Act) then the
regulator must reject the application and accordingly an application for
building control approval must be made in relation to the additional building
work.

47.7

Where the regulator is satisfied, after taking all reasonable steps for that
purpose that—

47.7.a

the applicable requirements of the building regulations have been satisfied
(taking account of any work carried out and any dispensation or relaxation
given in accordance with sections 8 and 9 of, and Schedule 2 to, the 1984
Act), and

47.7.b

no additional building work is required to secure that the unauthorised
building work satisfies the applicable requirements (taking account of any
such dispensation or relaxation),

the regulator may give a certificate to that effect (in this regulation
referred to as “ a regularisation certificate ”).

47.8

A regularisation certificate is evidence (but not conclusive evidence) that
the applicable requirements of the building regulations specified in the
certificate have been complied with in relation to the work specified in the
certificate.

47.9

Where a regularisation certificate is granted in relation to building work,
Parts 2 to 5 of these Regulations cease to apply to that work.

47.10

Subject to paragraph (12), where a regularisation certificate is granted the
applicant must, no later than five days after the certificate has been
received, give the building work information and a copy of the certificate to—

47.10.a

the accountable person who is responsible for the part of the building in
relation to which the work described in the certificate relates, and

47.10.b

the responsible person, if any, for the part of the building in relation to
which the work described in the certificate relates.

47.11

For the purposes of paragraph (10) the “building work information” is—

47.11.a

where Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement in
relation to the unauthorised building work, information relating to—

47.11.a.i

the design and construction of the building and the services, fittings and
equipment provided in or in connection with the building;

47.11.a.ii

the design of the change of use and building work to implement it;

47.11.a.iii

the composition of materials used,

which will assist the responsible person to operate and maintain the building
with reasonable safety;

47.11.b

where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement in relation to the unauthorised building work, sufficient
information about the building’s ventilation system and its maintenance
requirements so that the ventilation system can be operated in such a manner
as to provide adequate means of ventilation;

47.11.c

where paragraph L1 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a requirement
in relation to the unauthorised building work, sufficient information about
the building, the fixed building services and their maintenance requirements
so that the building can be operated in such a manner as to use no more fuel
and power than is reasonable in the circumstances;

47.11.d

where paragraph L2 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations applies in relation
to the unauthorised building work, sufficient information about the system for
on-site electricity generation in respect of its operation and maintenance
requirements so that the system may be operated and maintained in such a
manner as to produce the maximum electricity that is reasonable in the
circumstances and delivers this electricity to the optimal place for use;

47.11.e

where Part O of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations applies in relation to the
unauthorised building work, sufficient information about the provision made in
accordance with Part O so that the systems in place further to Part O can be
operated in such a manner as to protect against overheating.

47.12

Paragraph (10) does not apply where the applicant is a domestic client.

47.13

In this regulation—

      “ responsible person ” has the meaning given in article 3 of the
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005;           “ unauthorised building
work ” means any building work in relation to a higher-risk building which is
carried out without—         a building control approval under regulation 7
(building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work:
decisions) or 15 (building control approval applications for work to existing
HRB: decisions) being granted by the regulator;           where the building
work is a major change, a building control approval under regulation 24
(change control applications: decisions);           where the building work is
a notifiable change, a notification under regulation 18(3) (change control),
but work is not unauthorised building work to the extent that it consists only
of scheme work or exempt work.

#### Review of regulator’s decisions

48

48.1

The following decisions of the regulator are prescribed for the purposes of
section 25(1) of the 2022 Act—

48.1.a

a decision to reject—

48.1.a.i

a building control approval application for HRB work;

48.1.a.ii

a building control approval application for a stage of HRB work;

48.1.a.iii

a building control approval application for work to existing HRB;

48.1.a.iv

a change control application;

48.1.a.v

a completion certificate application;

48.1.a.vi

a partial completion certificate application;

48.1.a.vii

a regularisation certificate application;

48.1.b

a decision to specify a controlled change as being a major change or a
notifiable change under regulation 25 (change control: regulator power to
specify notifiable changes and major changes);

48.1.c

a decision to refuse a request to vary a requirement under regulation 30 (a
variation of a requirement imposed on a building control approval).

48.2

The persons prescribed for the purposes of section 25(2) of the 2022 Act in
relation to the decisions referred to in paragraph (1) are—

48.2.a

in relation to a decision referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person who made
the application or the person on whose behalf the application was made;

48.2.b

in relation to a decision referred to in paragraph (1)(b), any person to whom
the regulator gives notice under regulation 25 (change control: regulator
power to specify notifiable changes and major changes);

48.2.c

in relation to a decision referred to in paragraph (1)(c), the client who made
the request.

48.3

For the purposes of section 25 of the 2022 Act, a person requiring the
regulator to carry out a review, or a person on their behalf, must give a
notice under section 25(2) of the 2022 Act to the regulator in writing within
21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on which the decision
referred to in paragraph (1) is notified to the person.

48.4

A notice under section 25(2) of the 2022 Act must contain the following
information—

48.4.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address for the
person giving the notice;

48.4.b

if the person giving the notice is doing so on behalf of a person who falls
within the description in paragraph (2), the name and address of that person
and a statement that the person giving the notice is authorised to give the
notice on behalf of that person;

48.4.c

the address and, if applicable, the name of the building to which the decision
referred to in paragraph (1) relates;

48.4.d

a statement of the review being sought which—

48.4.d.i

identifies the decision to be reviewed (including the date of the decision and
any reference number included on the decision), and

48.4.d.ii

sets out the reasons the person considers the decision should be reviewed;

48.4.e

any information that is available to the person giving the notice, that may
have been relevant to the regulator’s original decision but was not available
at the time the original decision was made.

48.5

The regulator must notify the person who required a review of the outcome of
the review within 13 weeks beginning with the day after the day on which the
person gives a notice under section 25(2) of the 2022 Act.

48.6

A notice that the review has upheld the decision must give the reasons for
that decision.

48.7

If the review varies the decision the regulator must issue a new decision.

48.8

If requested by the person requiring the review, the regulator must provide a
paper copy of the decision of the review.

#### Appeal in relation to reviewed decisions

49

49.1

A person may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the
regulator of a kind referred to in regulation 48(1) (review of regulator’s
decisions) provided that the appeal is made within 21 relevant days beginning
with the day after the day on which the regulator notifies the person of its
decision under regulation 48(5) .

49.2

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1) only if it is
satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the
following grounds—

49.2.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact;

49.2.b

that the decision was wrong in law;

49.2.c

that the decision was unreasonable;

49.2.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under that Act.

49.3

If the First-tier Tribunal allows an appeal it may quash or vary the decision.

#### Section 30A prescribed applications

50

50.1

The following applications are prescribed  for the purposes of section 30A(1)
of the 1984 Act, and are accordingly applications that may be determined by
the Secretary of State in the circumstances described in that section—

50.1.a

a building control approval application for HRB work;

50.1.b

a building control approval application for a stage of HRB work;

50.1.c

a building control approval application for work to existing HRB;

50.1.d

a change control application;

50.1.e

a completion certificate application;

50.1.f

a partial completion certificate application.

50.2

An application may not be made to the Secretary of State under section 30A of
the 1984 Act where, in relation to the original application , the regulator
has notified the person who made the original application that the original
application is not valid.

#### Section 30A applications: procedure

51

51.1

An application under section 30A of the 1984 Act (“section 30A application”)
must be made in writing to the Secretary of State by the client for the work
to which the original application relates (in this Part “the applicant”) on a
form published by the Secretary of State, together with the documents
specified in paragraph (3).

51.2

A section 30A application must be made no later than 6 weeks after the day the
relevant period  in relation to the application or request ends.

51.3

The documents mentioned in paragraph (1) are—

51.3.a

a copy of the original application given to the regulator (including all
documentation that accompanied the application);

51.3.b

all information provided to the regulator in relation to the original
application by the applicant;

51.3.c

all correspondence between the applicant and the regulator in relation to that
application;

51.3.d

a copy of the notice sent to the regulator under paragraph (4);

51.3.e

where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the application being made and
that the information contained in the application is correct.

51.4

At least two working days before submitting the application under paragraph
(1) the applicant must give notice to the regulator of their intention to do
so.

#### Section 30A applications: electronic submissions

52

52.1

Where an applicant submits a section 30A application through electronic
facilities provided by the Secretary of State for that purpose, they are taken
to have consented to the use of electronic communications for all purposes
relating to the section 30A application that are capable of being carried out
electronically.

52.2

The deemed consent in paragraph (1) may be revoked by the applicant giving the
Secretary of State two weeks’ notice in writing specifying that the notice is
given under this regulation.

#### Section 30A applications: determinations

53

53.1

A section 30A application is to be determined  by written representations.

53.2

The Secretary of State must give the regulator the opportunity to make written
representations in relation to a section 30A application.

53.3

The Secretary of State may give any other person an opportunity to make
written representations in relation to a section 30A application.

53.4

The Secretary of State may, by notice in writing, require the regulator to
provide specified information, or provide copies of specified documents, by
the date specified in the notice (that date must be no fewer than 14 relevant
days after the date the notice is given).

53.5

Before determining a section 30A application, the Secretary of State may hold
such meetings with the applicant, the regulator or any other person, and
undertake such visits, testing or inspections, as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

53.6

The Secretary of State’s decision must be given in writing to the applicant
(and where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the decision
to the client).

53.7

A copy of the Secretary of State’s decision must be sent to the regulator.

#### Section 30A applications: appointed persons

54

54.1

The Secretary of State may appoint a person to determine a section 30A
application instead of the Secretary of State.

54.2

At any time before a person appointed under this regulation has determined the
application the Secretary of State may—

54.2.a

revoke that person’s appointment;

54.2.b

appoint another person to determine the application instead.

54.3

Where a new appointment is made the consideration of the application in
question must be started afresh.

54.4

Nothing in paragraph (3) requires any person to be given an opportunity to
make fresh representations or modify or withdraw representations previously
made.

54.5

A person appointed under this regulation has the same powers and duties in
relation to determination of a section 30A application as the Secretary of
State and, in particular, regulation 53 (section 30A applications:
determinations) applies as if references to the Secretary of State in that
regulation were references to that person.

54.6

Where an application is determined by a person appointed under this regulation
their decision is to be treated as the decision of the Secretary of State.

#### Deemed rejection of the original application

55

Where, in relation to an application that is prescribed in regulation 50
(section 30A prescribed applications)—

55.a

the period under regulation 51 (section 30A applications: procedures) for a
person to make a section 30A application has expired without the person making
a section 30A application in accordance with that regulation, and

55.b

the regulator did not determine the original application  before the expiry of
that period,

then the original application is treated as rejected by the regulator.

#### Section 30A applications: appeals

56

56.1

An appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 30A(8) of the 1984 Act must
be made within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on which
the Secretary of State gives the decision to the applicant under regulation
53(6) (section 30A applications: determinations).

56.2

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1) only to if it
is satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of
the following grounds—

56.2.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact;

56.2.b

that the decision was wrong in law;

56.2.c

that the decision was unreasonable;

56.2.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under that Act.

56.3

If the First-tier Tribunal allows an appeal it may quash or vary the decision.

### Miscellaneous

#### Exempt work

57

For the purposes of these Regulations, building work which consists only of
work of a kind described in Schedule 2 (exempt work) is exempt work.

#### Requirement for completion certificate before occupation and transitional cases

58

58.1

Each of the following is prescribed as a completion certificate for the
purposes of section 76(5) of the 2022 Act—

58.1.a

a completion certificate issued under regulation 44 (completion certificate
applications: decisions);

58.1.b

a partial completion certificate issued under regulation 45 (partial
completion certificates).

58.2

For type A transitional work each of the following is also prescribed as a
completion certificate for the purposes of section 76(5) of the 2022 Act—

58.2.a

a completion certificate issued under regulation 17 of the 2010 Regulations;

58.2.b

a partial completion certificate issued under regulation 17A of the 2010
Regulations;

58.2.c

a final certificate given by an approved inspector to a local authority in
accordance with the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010  and
not rejected by the authority.

58.3

For type B transitional work each of the following is also prescribed as a
completion certificate for the purposes of section 76(5) of the 2022 Act—

58.3.a

a transfer and completion certificate provided for by the modifications in
paragraph 5(9), 10(4), or, as the case may be, 11(4) of Schedule 3;

58.3.b

a transfer and partial completion certificate provided for by the
modifications in the paragraph 5(9), 10(4), or, as the case may be, 11(4) of
Schedule 3;

58.3.c

a final certificate given by an approved inspector to a local authority in
accordance with the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 and
not rejected by the authority.

58.4

In this regulation—

      “ type A transitional work ” means work of a kind referred to in section
76(1) of the 2022 Act which is—         completed before 1st October 2023 but
occupied on or after that date,           completed before 6th April 2024 and
paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 (transitional provisions) applied to the work but
paragraphs 3 and 4 of that Schedule did not apply, or           completed on
or after 6th April 2024 and paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 applied to the work;
“ type B transitional work ” means work of a kind referred to in section 76(1)
of the 2022 Act which is completed on or after 6th April 2024 and paragraph 5,
10 or 11 of Schedule 3 (transitional provisions) applies.

#### Electronic submission and directions

59

59.1

The regulator may make a direction as to the way in which any of the following
documents are given (which may include specifying cases where it must be given
electronically via a website address provided for that purpose by the
regulator)—

59.1.a

a building control approval application for HRB work;

59.1.b

a building control approval application for a stage of HRB work;

59.1.c

a building control approval application for work to existing HRB;

59.1.d

a notice under regulation 9(2), 9(3), 17(2) or 17(3) (notices before starting
work and when work is “commenced”);

59.1.e

a request for approval under regulation 7(12) or 15(12);

59.1.f

a notification under regulation 8 (regulator’s power to require notifications
etc for HRB work or stage of HRB work) or regulation 16 (regulator’s power to
require notifications etc for work to existing HRB);

59.1.g

a notice under regulation 10(1)(a) (emergency repair work);

59.1.h

a notification under regulation 18(3) (change control);

59.1.i

a change control application;

59.1.j

a notice under regulation 27 (new client or change of circumstances for the
client);

59.1.k

a notice under regulation 28 (change of circumstances for the client:
disclaimer of property);

59.1.l

a notice under regulation 29 (new principal contractor or principal designer
etc: notification);

59.1.m

a notice or report under regulation 33 (mandatory occurrence reporting:
reporting to the regulator);

59.1.n

a notice under regulation 39(5) (information be provided where work is scheme
work);

59.1.o

a completion certificate application;

59.1.p

a partial completion certificate application;

59.1.q

a regularisation certificate application;

59.1.r

a notice under regulation 25A(2), 27(2) or (3), 27A(2) or (3), 27C(2) or (3),
37(1), 41(4), 42(2), 43(2), 44(3) and 44ZA(2) of the 2010 Regulations;

59.1.s

a copy of results under regulation 41(2) of the 2010 Regulations;

59.1.t

a notice of review under section 25 of the 2022 Act;

59.1.u

any documents that are required to accompany any application referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) to (c), (i), (o), (p) or (q).

59.2

A direction must specify the date on which it comes into effect, which must
not be earlier than five working days after the date on which the regulator
publishes it.

59.3

Where the regulator has made a direction in accordance with this regulation,
an application (or any document that accompanied the application), notice or
request of the type mentioned in the direction must, from the date specified
in the direction, be given in accordance with the direction.

59.4

The regulator may, by a further direction, amend or revoke a direction made
under this regulation.

#### Contraventions by the regulator not to be subject to enforcement

60

The following provisions of these Regulations are prescribed for the purposes
of sections 35(2) and 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act—

60.a

regulation 5 (building control approval applications for HRB work or stage of
HRB work: validity and time limit);

60.b

regulation 6(1) and (2) (building control approval applications for HRB work
or stage of HRB work: consultation);

60.c

regulation 7(1), (4) to (7), (13) and (14) (building control approval
applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work: decisions);

60.d

regulation 9(4) (notice before starting work and further notice when work is
“commenced”);

60.e

regulation 13 (building control approval applications for work to existing
HRB: validity and time limit);

60.f

regulation 14(1) and (2) (building control approval applications for work to
existing HRB: consultation);

60.g

regulation 15(1), (4) to (7), (13) and (14) (building control approval
applications for work to existing HRB: decisions);

60.h

regulation 17(4) (notice before starting work and further notice when work is
“commenced”);

60.i

regulation 22 (change control applications: validity and time limit);

60.j

regulation 23(1) and (2) (change control applications: consultation);

60.k

regulation 24(1), (4) to (7) and (11)(b) and (d) (change control applications:
decisions);

60.l

regulation 30(4) and (6) to (8) (variation of a requirement imposed on a
building control approval);

60.m

regulation 41(1) and (2) (completion certificate applications: validity and
time limit);

60.n

regulation 42(1) (completion certificate applications: consultation);

60.o

regulation 43 (completion certificate applications: inspection);

60.p

regulation 44(1) to (6) and (8) (completion certificate applications:
decisions);

60.q

regulation 45(5), (6), (8), (10) to (15) and (17) (partial completion
certificates) except that regulation 45(8) is not prescribed in relation to
the regulator consulting a sewerage undertaker;

60.r

regulation 47(6) (regularisation of unauthorised building work);

60.s

regulation 48(5) to (8) (review of regulator’s decisions);

60.t

regulation 53 (section 30A applications: determinations);

60.u

regulation 54 (section 30A applications: appointed persons);

60.v

regulation 59(2) and (4) (electronic submission and directions).

#### Provisions in relation to which a stop notice may be given

61

The following provisions are prescribed for the purposes of section 35C(1)(a)
of the 1984 Act (stop notices)—

61.a

regulation 3 (HRB work not to be started before approval);

61.b

regulation 7(12)(b) (HRB work not to proceed until approval under a
requirement is received);

61.c

regulation 11 (specified work to an existing HRB not to be started before
approval);

61.d

regulation 15(12)(b) (work to existing HRB not to proceed until approval under
a requirement is received);

61.e

regulation 18(6) (major change not to be carried out before approval);

61.f

regulation 24(11)(a) (major change not to proceed until approval under a
requirement is received) but only in relation to a major change (as defined in
regulation 26 of those Regulations).

#### Local land charges

62

The functions of local authorities under the Local Land Charges Act 1975 , as
they relate to higher-risk buildings, are prescribed for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of the definition of “relevant function” in paragraph 2(5) of
Schedule 3 to the Building Safety Act 2022.

#### Consequential amendment to the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005

63

In article 22A(3) of the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005
(provision of information to new responsible person), after sub-paragraph (e)
insert—

63.ea

any information given under regulation 38 or 39 of the Building (Higher-Risk
Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 (fire safety information);

.

#### Consequential amendments to the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010

64

64.1

The Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010  are amended as follows.

64.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the definition of “compliance
certificate”—

64.2.a

omit “either”;

64.2.b

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (a) and insert—

64.2.b.aa

regulation 44 (completion certificate applications: decisions) of the Building
(Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023, or

.

#### Consequential amendments to the Building Safety (Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023

65

65.1

The Building Safety (Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations
2023  are amended as follows.

65.2

In regulation 33 (building control prohibitions)—

65.2.a

in paragraph (2) after “34,” insert  “34A,” ;

65.2.b

in paragraph (4)—

65.2.b.i

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

65.2.b.i.ea

an application for a certificate under regulation 40 (completion certificate
applications) or regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

;

65.2.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

65.2.b.ii.fa

an application for a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023;

;

65.2.c

in paragraph (6)—

65.2.c.i

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

65.2.c.i.ba

a certificate under regulation 44 (completion certificate applications:
decisions) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023;

;

65.2.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

65.2.c.ii.ca

a certificate under regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

;

65.2.c.iii

after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

65.2.c.iii.g

a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of unauthorised building
work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations
2023;

;

65.2.d

in paragraph (8)—

65.2.d.i

after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

65.2.d.i.fa

an application for a certificate under regulation 40 (completion certificate
applications) or regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

;

65.2.d.ii

after sub-paragraph (g) insert—

65.2.d.ii.h

an application for a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023;

.

65.3

After regulation 34 insert—

########## Exception to building control prohibition: emergency repair work to existing HRB

65.3.34A

65.3.34A.1

Where an applicable person proposes to carry out work to existing HRB which
consists of emergency repairs then—

65.3.34A.1.a

the provision by them of a notice under regulation 10(1)(a) (notification of
emergency repairs to existing HRB) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings
Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023, and

65.3.34A.1.b

an application for a certificate in relation to that work under regulation 47
(regularisation of unauthorised building work) of those Regulations,

are not to be treated as a breach of the building control prohibition.

65.3.34A.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the regulator is not prohibited from giving the
applicable person a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023.

65.3.34A.3

In this regulation—

      “ emergency repairs ” has the meaning given in regulation 10(2) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;
“ the regulator ” has the meaning in section 126 of the Building Act 1984;
“ work to existing HRB ” has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the Building
(Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023.

.

65.4

In regulation 35 (exception to building control prohibition: work to occupied
buildings)—

65.4.a

in paragraph (4)(a)—

65.4.a.i

after paragraph (i) insert—

65.4.a.i.ia

an application for a certificate under regulation 40 (completion certificate
applications) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023 in relation to the work;

;

65.4.a.ii

after paragraph (ii) insert—

65.4.a.ii.iia

an application for a certificate under regulation 45 (partial completion
certificates) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023 in relation to the work;

;

65.4.b

after paragraph (5) insert—

65.4.b.5A

Where paragraph (4) applies, the regulator is not prohibited from giving the
applicable person a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023.

.

65.5

In regulation 36(1) (exception to building control prohibitions: purchasers)
after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

65.5.aa

to permit the issuing by the regulator of a certificate in relation to that
work under regulation 44 (completion certificate applications: decisions) of
the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

.

65.6

In regulation 37 (exception to building control prohibitions and modification
of the Building Regulations 2010: regularisation)—

65.6.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

65.6.a.1A

Where the building is a higher-risk building, a relevant purchaser is not
prohibited from giving the regulator an application for a certificate under
regulation 47 (regularisation of unauthorised building work) of the Building
(Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 and the
regulator is not prohibited from granting such a certificate.

;

65.6.b

after paragraph (3) insert—

65.6.b.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1A), regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023 is to have effect in relation to an application
under that regulation by a relevant purchaser as if any work carried out by an
applicable person which was not unauthorised building work (within the meaning
set out in that regulation) were treated as if it were unauthorised building
work.

.

#### Transitional, supplementary and saving provisions

66

The transitional, supplementary and saving provisions set out in Schedule 3
have effect.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Lee Rowley   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     9th August 2023

  Documents

Regulation 2

##### Competence declaration

1

1.1

A competence declaration is a statement, in relation to work, that contains a
declaration in relation to—

1.1.a

a principal designer (or sole or lead designer) for HRB work, a stage of HRB
work or work to existing HRB,

1.1.b

a principal contractor (or sole contractor) for HRB work, a stage of HRB work
or work to existing HRB, and

1.1.c

any other person appointed (A), in relation to the work, as at the date of the
building control approval application for HRB work, a building control
approval application for a stage of HRB work or the building control approval
application for work to existing HRB.

1.2

In relation to a principal designer for HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work
to existing HRB, the competence declaration must—

1.2.a

state that the client—

1.2.a.i

has complied with regulation 11E(2)(b) (consideration of past misconduct) of
the 2010 Regulations, and

1.2.a.ii

having taken all reasonable steps, is satisfied that the principal designer
fulfils the requirements in regulations 11F(1) and (2) and 11G(1) of the 2010
Regulations, and

1.2.b

include a declaration as to the truth of that statement.

1.3

In relation to a principal contractor for HRB work, a stage of HRB work or
work to existing HRB, the competence declaration must—

1.3.a

state that the client—

1.3.a.i

has complied with regulation 11E(2)(b) (consideration of past misconduct) of
the 2010 Regulations, and

1.3.a.ii

having taken all reasonable steps, is satisfied that the principal contractor
fulfils the requirements in regulations 11F(1) and (2) and 11H(1) of the 2010
Regulations, and

1.3.b

include a declaration as to the truth of that statement.

1.4

In relation to a sole contractor, or sole or lead designer, the competence
declaration must—

1.4.a

state that the client—

1.4.a.i

has complied with regulation 11E(2)(b) (consideration of past misconduct) of
the 2010 Regulations, and

1.4.a.ii

having taken all reasonable steps, is satisfied that the person fulfils the
requirements in regulations 11F(1) and (2) of the 2010 Regulations, and

1.4.b

include a declaration as to the truth of that statement.

1.5

In relation to any A, the competence declaration must—

1.5.a

state that the client has been informed by the person appointing A that they
have complied with regulation 11E(2)(b) (consideration of past misconduct) of
the 2010 Regulations, and

1.5.b

include a declaration as to the truth of that statement.

1.6

Any competence declaration must—

1.6.a

be signed by the client, and

1.6.b

where there is more than one contractor for the HRB work, a stage of HRB work
or work to existing HRB, include a copy of each record that the client created
under regulation 11D(8) or, as the case may be, 11D(9) (principal designer and
principal contractor) of the 2010 Regulations.

##### Construction control plan

2

A construction control plan must set out—

2.a

the strategies, policies and procedures the client has adopted for planning,
managing and monitoring the HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing
HRB so as to ensure compliance with—

2.a.i

the applicable requirements of the building regulations and to record evidence
of that compliance including describing the arrangements the client has
adopted to maintain the golden thread information;

2.a.ii

the duties in Chapter 4 (duties of dutyholders) of Part 2A of the 2010
Regulations;

2.b

the strategies, policies and procedures the client has adopted to identify,
assess and keep under review the competence of the persons carrying out the
HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB or involved in the
design of the higher-risk building or design of the building work to the
higher-risk building, including the procedures to be followed—

2.b.i

to determine whether a serious sanction (as defined in regulation 11E of the
2010 Regulations) has occurred in relation to a person to be appointed;

2.b.ii

to consider any past behaviour in relation to any serious sanction which might
call into question the suitability of a person to be appointed;

2.b.iii

if a person in relation to which a serious sanction has occurred is appointed,
to prevent a repeat of the behaviour;

2.c

the strategies, policies and procedures the client has adopted to support co-
operation between designers, contractors and any other persons involved in the
HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB, including the sharing
of all necessary information;

2.d

a schedule of each appointment which has been made as at the date of the
application, giving the name of—

2.d.i

the person who the client has appointed as the principal contractor (or sole
contractor);

2.d.ii

the person who the client has appointed as the principal designer (or sole or
lead designer);

2.d.iii

any other person (excluding individuals except where they are a sole trader)
the client has appointed to work on the project;

2.d.iv

any person (excluding individuals except where they are a sole trader) the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) has appointed to work on the
project, and

2.d.v

any person (excluding individuals except where they are a sole trader) the
principal designer (or sole or lead designer) has appointed to work on the
project,

and a summary of their responsibilities;

2.e

the policies the client has adopted to review the construction control plan.

##### Change control plan

3

3.1

A change control plan must set out the strategies, policies and procedures the
client has adopted to ensure any controlled change takes place in accordance
with regulation 18 (change control), and to log each controlled change in
accordance with regulation 19 (change control: record-keeping) including
explaining—

3.1.a

how proposed changes will be identified and to whom they must be reported;

3.1.b

how the impacts of proposed changes are identified and considered;

3.1.c

in relation to proposed changes, the decision-making procedures adopted for
agreeing a change including whose advice is to be sought;

3.1.d

how changes are recorded and by when;

3.1.e

the procedure to identify which changes require notification to the regulator
and which changes require a change control application;

3.1.f

how the effectiveness of the change control plan will be reviewed by
dutyholders periodically.

3.2

In this paragraph “ dutyholders ” means the client, the principal contractor
(or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole or lead designer).

##### Building Regulations compliance statement

4

A Building Regulations compliance statement must set out the approach taken in
designing the proposed higher-risk building or in designing the work to be
carried out on the higher-risk building and the building standards applied, in
particular—

4.a

the approach taken in relation to each element of the building and the work to
ensure compliance with all applicable requirements of the building
regulations, and

4.b

the reasons for adopting the approach together with an explanation of why the
approach is appropriate and ensures compliance with all applicable
requirements of the building regulations.

##### Fire and emergency file

5

5.1

A fire and emergency file must set out—

5.1.a

the matters that were considered when assessing how the building safety risks
identified could impact the higher-risk building or the proposed higher-risk
building;

5.1.b

the proposals adopted and the approaches taken in relation to designing the
proposed higher-risk building or the building work to the higher-risk building
to ensure compliance with the applicable requirements of the building
regulations relating to the building safety risks;

5.1.c

the measures, strategies and policies it is proposed the owner of the higher-
risk building should adopt in order to manage and maintain the higher-risk
building or the proposed higher-risk building to ensure anyone in it can be
safely evacuated in an emergency, including any assumptions made as to the
intended occupiers of the building and their likely characteristics and
behaviours.

5.2

The measures, strategies and policies referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must
include—

5.2.a

a plan which sets out the requirements of the fire and rescue service for the
area in relation to access to the higher-risk building and water supply for
fire-fighting;

5.2.b

a report which—

5.2.b.i

where the HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB has not
started, demonstrates how compliance with the applicable requirements of the
building regulations relating to the building safety risks is to be achieved;

5.2.b.ii

where the HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB is completed,
demonstrates how compliance with the applicable requirements of the building
regulations relating to the building safety risks was achieved.

##### Partial completion strategy

6

A partial completion strategy must explain—

6.a

the proposals adopted in designing for occupation of each part of the building
or the proposed building to be completed to ensure compliance with the
applicable requirements of the building regulations;

6.b

the measures, strategies and policies it is proposed the owner of the building
should adopt in order to manage and maintain each such part of the building or
the proposed building;

6.c

any assumptions made in those measures, strategies and proposals as to the
intended occupiers of each such part of the building or the proposed building
and their likely characteristics and behaviours, and the intended management
or maintenance of each such part of the building or the proposed building.

  Exempt work

Regulation 57

1

Work consisting of—

1.a

in relation to an existing fixed building service, which is not a fixed
internal or external lighting system—

1.a.i

replacing any part which is not a combustion appliance,

1.a.ii

adding an output device, or

1.a.iii

adding a control device,

where testing and adjustment of the work is not possible or would not affect
the use by the fixed building service of no more fuel and power than is
reasonable in the circumstances;

1.b

providing a self-contained fixed building service, which is not a fixed
internal or external lighting system, where—

1.b.i

it is not a combustion appliance (other than a fixed flueless gas cooker),

1.b.ii

any electrical work associated with its provision does not consist of—

1.b.ii.aa

the installation of a new circuit;

1.b.ii.bb

the replacement of a consumer unit;

1.b.ii.cc

any addition or alteration to existing circuits in a special location;

1.b.iii

testing and adjustment is not possible or would not affect its energy
efficiency, and

1.b.iv

in the case of a mechanical ventilation appliance, the appliance is not
installed in a room containing an open-flued combustion appliance whose
combustion products are discharged through a natural draught flue;

1.c

replacing an external door (where the door together with its frame has not
more than 50% of its internal face area glazed);

1.d

in existing buildings other than dwellings, providing fixed internal lighting
where no more than 100m 2  of the floor area of the building is to be served
by the lighting;

1.e

replacing—

1.e.i

a sanitary convenience with one that uses no more water than the one it
replaces,

1.e.ii

a washbasin, sink or bidet,

1.e.iii

a fixed bath,

1.e.iv

a shower,

1.e.v

a rainwater gutter, or

1.e.vi

a rainwater downpipe,

where the work does not include any work to underground drainage, and includes
no work to the hot or cold water system or above ground drainage, which may
prejudice the health or safety of any person on completion of the work;

1.f

in relation to an existing cold water supply—

1.f.i

replacing any part,

1.f.ii

adding an output device, or

1.f.iii

adding a control device;

1.g

providing a hot water storage system that has a storage vessel with a capacity
not exceeding 15 litres, where any electrical work associated with its
provision does not consist of—

1.g.i

the installation of a new circuit;

1.g.ii

the replacement of a consumer unit;

1.g.iii

any addition or alteration to existing circuits in a special location;

1.h

installation of thermal insulation in a roof space or loft space where—

1.h.i

the work consists solely of the installation of such insulation, and

1.h.ii

the work is not carried out in order to comply with any requirement of the
2010 Regulations.

2

Installation of thermal insulation to suspended timber floors where the work—

2.a

consists of the installation of such insulation only, and

2.b

the work is not carried out in order to comply with any requirements of the
2010 Regulations.

3

For the purposes of this Schedule—

      “ fixed building service ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(1) of
the 2010 Regulations;           “ self-contained ” in relation to a fixed
building service means consisting of a single appliance and any associated
controls which is neither connected to, nor forms part of, any other fixed
building service;           “ special location ” means—         within a room
containing a bath or shower, the space surrounding a bath tap or shower head,
where the space extends—         vertically from the finished floor level to—
a height of 2.25 metres, or           the position of the shower head where it
is attached to a wall or ceiling at a point higher than 2.25 metres from that
level, and                 horizontally—         where there is a bath tub or
shower tray, from the edge of the bath tub or shower tray to a distance of 0.6
metres, or           where there is no bath tub or shower tray, from the
centre point of the shower head where it is attached to the wall or ceiling to
a distance of 1.2 metres, or                       a room containing a
swimming pool or sauna heater.

  Transitional, supplementary and saving provisions

Regulation 66

##### Transitional etc provisions

###### October 2023: HRB work and work to existing HRB

1

1.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (5) and the requirements of paragraphs 2 and 4 to 11,
this paragraph applies where before 1st October 2023—

1.1.a

an initial notice, in relation to HRB work or work to existing HRB for a
particular building, has been given to a local authority and before that date
is accepted or deemed to be accepted under section 47 of the 1984 Act, or

1.1.b

full plans, in relation to HRB work or work to existing HRB to a particular
building, were deposited with a local authority.

1.2

Where this paragraph applies, notwithstanding the commencement of section 32
of the Building Safety Act 2022, on 1st October 2023 the local authority for
the area continues to be the building control authority  in relation to the
higher-risk building and accordingly the duties and functions of local
authorities under section 91 of the 1984 Act  continue to apply in relation to
that work as if it were not higher-risk building work.

1.3

Where this paragraph applies—

1.3.a

in a case where full plans have been deposited—

1.3.a.i

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations do not apply to that work, and

1.3.a.ii

the 2010 Regulations continue to apply to that work, including the amendments
made to the 2010 Regulations by the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment)
(England) Regulations 2023, but subject to Part 4 (transitional, supplementary
and saving provisions) of the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2023;

1.3.b

in a case where an initial notice has been given—

1.3.b.i

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations do not apply to that work, and

1.3.b.ii

the 2010 Regulations and the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations
2010 continue to apply to the work, including the amendments made to those
Regulations by the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England) Regulations
2023 and the Building (Approved Inspectors etc. and Review of Decisions)
(England) Regulations 2023 but subject to Part 4 (transitional, supplementary
and saving provisions) of the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2023 and Part 4 (transitional, supplementary and saving
provisions) of the Building (Approved Inspectors etc. and Review of Decisions)
(England) Regulations 2023.

1.4

In addition to the continuing application of the provisions referred to in
sub-paragraph (3), not more than five working days after the day on which the
work is to be regarded as sufficiently progressed the person carrying out the
work must give a notice to that effect to the local authority and where sub-
paragraph (1)(a) applies in relation to the work, give a copy of the notice to
the approved inspector.

1.5

Sub-paragraphs (1) to (4) cease to apply in relation to the work where before
6th April 2024—

1.5.a

the approval for the work lapses by virtue of section 32 of the 1984 Act (as
that provision had effect immediately before 1st October 2023), or

1.5.b

the initial notice for the work, or the part of that notice which relates to
the higher-risk building, is cancelled under section 52(5) of the 1984 Act (as
that provision had effect immediately before 1st October 2023),

and paragraph 3 applies instead to the work.

1.6

For the purposes of this paragraph work is to be regarded as sufficiently
progressed—

1.6.a

where the building work consists of the construction of a higher-risk
building, when the pouring of concrete for—

1.6.a.i

the permanent placement of the trench, pad or raft foundations, or

1.6.a.ii

the permanent placement of piling,

for that building has started;

1.6.b

where the building work consists of work to an existing building, when that
work has started;

1.6.c

where the building work consists of a material change of use of a building,
when work to effect that change of use has started.

1.7

Where the work consists of work in relation to more than one higher-risk
building then sub-paragraph (4) applies to each building separately.

###### From October 2023: cases where full plans are rejected

2

2.1

This paragraph applies where, in relation to work to a particular building,
full plans were deposited with a local authority before 1st October 2023 and
in accordance with any provision of Part 1 of the 1984 Act or a local
enactment the local authority has rejected those plans on or after that date
(“the rejection date”).

2.2

Where this paragraph applies then with effect from the rejection date the
regulator, and not the local authority for the area, is the building control
authority in relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly—

2.2.a

the duties and functions of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act
apply in relation to the higher-risk building or any proposed higher-risk
building;

2.2.b

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations apply to any HRB work or work to existing
HRB from the rejection date with the modifications provided in this paragraph
except that regulation 47 (regularisation) does not apply in relation to any
work carried out before the rejection date and accordingly any reference to a
regularisation certificate in Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations is to be
ignored, and

2.2.c

the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to higher-risk buildings, apply
to any of the work from the rejection date.

2.3

Within 10 working days of the rejection date the person intending to carry out
the work must give a notice to the regulator setting out—

2.3.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
person intending to carry out the work;

2.3.b

details of the work to be carried out;

2.3.c

details of any existing building on the site, including the height of any
existing building, the number of storeys contained in it and the use of each
storey (regulations 5 and 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and
Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023  have effect in determining the
height and the number of storeys in a building);

2.3.d

details of the intended use of the higher-risk building, including the
intended use of each storey;

2.3.e

the height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance with
regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

2.3.f

the number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

2.3.g

where the work is HRB work or is work to existing HRB which changes the number
of residential or commercial units in the building, the proposed number of
flats, number of residential rooms and number of commercial units to be
contained in the higher-risk building;

2.3.h

details of the work which has been carried out together with a summary of the
inspections undertaken by the local authority in relation to the work.

2.4

Where any work was carried out before the rejection date the person who
carried out the work or the owner must comply with any notice from the
regulator requiring them within a reasonable time to cut into, lay open or
pull down so much of the work as prevents the regulator from ascertaining
whether the work contravenes any requirement of the building regulations.

2.5

Where any work was carried out before the rejection date (“the HRB project”)
and on or after that date a building control approval application for HRB work
or a building control approval application for work to existing HRB is
submitted to the regulator in respect of the HRB project, then in addition to
the requirements of regulation 4 the person who carried out the work must
provide the regulator with such plans as are necessary to show the work
already carried out complies with all applicable requirements of the building
regulations.

###### October 2023 to April 2024: cases where building control approval lapses before 6th April 2024

3

3.1

This paragraph applies where, by virtue of paragraph 1(5)(a) or (b), paragraph
1(1) to (4) ceases to apply in relation to work.

3.2

Where this paragraph applies then with effect from the date paragraph 1(1) to
(4) ceases to apply in relation to the work (“the cessation date”) the
regulator, and not the local authority for the area, is the building control
authority in relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly—

3.2.a

the duties and functions of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act
apply in relation to the higher-risk building or any proposed higher-risk
building;

3.2.b

these Regulations apply to any of the work from the cessation date, and

3.2.c

the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to higher-risk buildings, apply
to any of the work from the cessation date.

###### October 2023 to April 2024: cases of not sufficiently progressed work where an initial notice is cancelled before 6th April 2024

4

4.1

This paragraph applies where—

4.1.a

the initial notice for the work, or the part of that notice which relates to
the higher-risk building, ceases to be in force by virtue of any provision of
Part 2 of the 1984 Act (except section 52(5)) on a date before 6th April 2024
(“the cancellation date”), and

4.1.b

a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
in relation to that work was not received by a local authority before the
cancellation date.

4.2

Where this paragraph applies—

4.2.a

if a plans certificate or final certificate relating to the work (or any part
of the work) has been accepted before the cancellation date then with effect
from that date the certificate ceases to have effect;

4.2.b

accordingly Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations apply to the work from the
cancellation date with the modifications provided for in paragraph (8);

4.2.c

subject to paragraph (d), the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to
higher-risk buildings, apply to any of the work from the cancellation date;

4.2.d

regulation 11(3) of the 2010 Regulations does not apply and accordingly the
regulator may exercise the power in section 8(3A) of the 1984 Act  to dispense
with or relax any requirement of the 2010 Regulations.

4.3

Where this paragraph applies then with effect from the cancellation date the
regulator, and not the local authority for the area, is the building control
authority in relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the duties
and functions of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in
relation to the work to the higher-risk building (but not in relation to any
other work specified in the initial notice).

4.4

Where this paragraph applies, not more than five working days after the
cancellation date the person which was shown on the initial notice as the
approved inspector must—

4.4.a

give a notice to the person intending to carry out the work explaining the
initial notice, or such part of the initial notice which applies to the
higher-risk building, is no longer in force and the effect of sub-paragraphs
(2), (3) and (5), and

4.4.b

give a copy of the notice to the local authority.

4.5

Within 10 working days of the cancellation date the person intending to carry
out the work must give a notice to the regulator setting out—

4.5.a

their name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address;

4.5.b

the location of the building;

4.5.c

details of the work to be carried out;

4.5.d

the height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance with
regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

4.5.e

the number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023, and

4.5.f

a description of any work which was carried out before the cancellation date
(including details of the work in relation to which a final certificate was
given and not rejected) and details of any inspections undertaken by the
approved inspector in relation to that work.

4.6

With effect from the cancellation date no further building work in relation to
the work described in the initial notice (“HRB project”) may be carried out
until the date when the person intending to carry out building work has
received confirmation in writing from the regulator that an application for
building control approval made to the regulator in relation to that work is
valid (“validation date”).

4.7

Where any building work was carried out before the cancellation date then—

4.7.a

the person who carried out the work or the owner must comply with any notice
from the regulator requiring them within a reasonable time to cut into, lay
open or pull down so much of the work as prevents the regulator from
ascertaining whether the work contravenes any requirement of the building
regulations;

4.7.b

in addition to the other documents which are required to accompany the
application for building control approval, the person must provide the
regulator with such plans as are necessary to show the work already carried
out complies with all applicable requirements of the building regulations.

4.8

Where the application for building control approval in relation to the HRB
project is rejected by the regulator then with effect from the date the
rejection is notified to the applicant (“rejection date”) no further building
work in relation to the HRB project may be carried out until a building
control approval is granted in relation to the building.

4.9

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations have effect in relation to the HRB project—

4.9.a

from the cancellation date as if—

4.9.a.i

regulation 5(1)(b) (building control applications: for HRB work or stage of
HRB work: validity and time limit) and regulation 13(1)(b) (building control
applications: for work to existing HRB: validity and time limit) were omitted;

4.9.a.ii

in relation to any change control which is proposed or occurs between the
cancellation date and the date application for building control approval is
determined by the regulator, Part 3 (change control) required the change to be
recordable in the change control log;

4.9.a.iii

regulation 47 (regularisation) does not apply in relation to any work carried
out before the cancellation date and accordingly any reference to a
regularisation certificate in Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations in relation to
such work is to be ignored;

4.9.a.iv

regulations 50 to 56 (section 30A applications) did not apply in relation to
the application for building control approval for the HRB project, and

4.9.b

additionally, from the validation date until the rejection date, as if
regulation 3 did not prevent work in the HRB project to be started before an
application for building control approval for the work is submitted.

###### October 2023 to April 2024: cases of sufficiently progressed work where an initial notice is cancelled before 6th April 2024

5

5.1

This paragraph applies where—

5.1.a

a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
in relation to that work was received by a local authority before 6th April
2024, and

5.1.b

the initial notice for the work, or the part of that notice which relates to
the higher-risk building, ceases to be in force by virtue of any provision of
Part 2 of the 1984 Act on a date before 6th April 2024 (“the cancellation
date”).

5.2

Where this paragraph applies—

5.2.a

if a final certificate relating to the work (or any part of the work which
relates to the higher-risk building) has been accepted before the cancellation
date then with effect from that date the function of enforcing building
regulations that is conferred on the regulator by section 91(3) of the 1984
Act is not exercisable in relation to that work;

5.2.b

if a plans certificate relating to the work (or any part of the work which
relates to the higher-risk building) has been accepted before the cancellation
date then with effect from the notice date the certificate ceases to have
effect;

5.2.c

accordingly Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations apply to the work from the
cancellation date with the modifications provided for in paragraph (9);

5.2.d

subject to paragraph (e), the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to
higher-risk buildings, apply to any of the work from the cancellation date;

5.2.e

regulation 11(3) of the 2010 Regulations does not apply and accordingly the
regulator may exercise the power in section 8(3A) of the 1984 Act to dispense
with or relax any requirement of the 2010 Regulations.

5.3

Where this paragraph applies then with effect from the cancellation date the
regulator, and not the local authority for the area, is the building control
authority in relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the duties
and functions of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in
relation to the work to the higher-risk building (but not in relation to any
other work specified in the initial notice).

5.4

Where this paragraph applies, not more than five working days after the
cancellation date the person which was shown on the initial notice as the
approved inspector must—

5.4.a

give a notice to the person intending to carry out the work explaining the
initial notice, or such part of the initial notice which applies to the
higher-risk building, is no longer in force and the effect of sub-paragraphs
(2), (3) and (5), and

5.4.b

give a copy of the notice to the local authority.

5.5

Within 10 working days of the cancellation date the person intending to carry
out the work must give a notice to the regulator setting out—

5.5.a

the information referred to in paragraph 4(5), and

5.5.b

in relation to any work for which a final certificate was given and not
rejected, a description of the work covered by the final certificate.

5.6

With effect from the cancellation date no further building work in relation to
the work described in the initial notice (“HRB project”) may be carried out
until the date when the person intending to carry out building work has
submitted an application for building control approval for HRB work or an
application for building control approval for work to existing HRB in relation
to the work and received confirmation in writing from the regulator that an
application for building control approval made to the regulator in relation to
that work is valid (“validation date”).

5.7

In relation to building work carried out before the cancellation date then—

5.7.a

the person who carried out the work or the owner must comply with any notice
from the regulator requiring them within a reasonable time to cut into, lay
open or pull down so much of the work as prevents the regulator from
ascertaining whether the work contravenes any requirement of the building
regulations;

5.7.b

in addition to the other documents which are required to accompany the
application for building control approval, the person must provide the
regulator with such plans as are necessary to show the work already carried
out complies with all applicable requirements of the building regulations.

5.8

Where the application for building control approval in relation to the HRB
project is rejected by the regulator then with effect from the date the
rejection is notified to the applicant (“rejection date”) no further building
work in relation to the HRB project may be carried out until a building
control approval is granted in relation to the building.

5.9

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations have effect in relation to the work as if—

5.9.a

in Part 2—

5.9.a.i

in relation to any work for which a final certificate was previously given
before the cancellation date and not rejected—

5.9.a.i.aa

paragraphs (1)(e)(viii), (2)(b) and (3) of regulation 4 (building control
approval applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work) and paragraphs
(1)(e)(viii), (2)(c) and (5) of regulation 12 (building control approval
applications for work to existing HRB) were omitted,

5.9.a.i.bb

in addition to the requirements of regulation 4 and, as the case may be,
regulation 12, the person which carried out the work must provide the
regulator with such plans as are necessary to show the work already carried
out complies with all applicable requirements of the building regulations,
together with a copy of the final certificate;

5.9.a.i.cc

regulation 5(1)(b) (building control applications: for HRB work or stage of
HRB work: validity and time limit) and regulation 13(1)(b) (building control
applications: for work to existing HRB: validity and time limit) were omitted;

5.9.a.ii

in relation to any other work in the HRB project—

5.9.a.ii.aa

paragraphs (iii) to (viii) of regulation 4(2)(b) (building control approval
applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work) and paragraphs (ii) to (vi) of
regulation 12(2)(c) and (5) (building control approval applications for work
to existing HRB) were omitted;

5.9.a.ii.bb

regulation 5(1)(b) (building control applications: for HRB work or stage of
HRB work: validity and time limit) and regulation 13(1)(b) (building control
applications: for work to existing HRB: validity and time limit) were omitted;

5.9.b

regulations 18 to 26 (change control) were omitted;

5.9.c

paragraphs (2)(b), (6)(b) and (8)(c) of regulation 27 (new client etc) were
omitted;

5.9.d

any references to golden thread information in regulation 27 were references
to fire safety information;

5.9.e

paragraph (7) of regulation 29 (new principal contractor or principal
designer) were omitted;

5.9.f

regulation 31 (golden thread) were omitted;

5.9.g

regulations 32 to 37 (mandatory occurrence reporting) were omitted;

5.9.h

any references to golden thread information in regulation 38 were references
to fire safety information;

5.9.i

in Part 5 (completion certificates), in relation to any work (including any
work carried out before the cancellation date which is included in a
completion certificate application)—

5.9.i.i

any references to “completion certificate” were references to “transfer and
completion certificate”;

5.9.i.ii

any references to “partial completion certificate” were references to
“transfer and partial completion certificate”;

5.9.i.iii

paragraph (2)(d) of regulation 40 (completion certificate applications) were
omitted;

5.9.i.iv

paragraph (3)(c) of regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) were
omitted;

5.9.j

any reference in regulations 40(1)(f) (completion certificate applications),
44(1)(c) (completion certificate applications: decisions) and 45(2)(h) and
(10)(c) (partial completion certificates) to providing information to the
relevant person in accordance with regulation 38 (handover of information on
completion etc) were a reference to providing fire safety information to the
relevant person;

5.9.k

any reference in regulations 4, 6, 12 and 42 to a “fire and emergency file”
were a reference to a document setting out the fire safety design principles,
concepts and standards applied to the development including sufficient plans
to show how the work would comply with Part B (fire safety) of Schedule 1 to
the 2010 Regulations in relation to the higher-risk building or proposed
higher-risk building;

5.9.l

regulation 46 (inspections etc) were omitted in relation to any work described
in a final certificate;

5.9.m

regulation 47 (regularisation) were omitted in relation to any work carried
out before the cancellation date and accordingly any reference to a
regularisation certificate in Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations is to be
ignored in relation to that work;

5.9.n

in regulations 48 (review of regulator’s decisions), 50 (section 30A
prescribed applications) and 51 (section 30A applications: procedure)—

5.9.n.i

any reference to completion certificate application were a reference to an
application for a transfer and completion certificate, and

5.9.n.ii

any reference to partial completion certificate application were a reference
to an application for a transfer and partial completion certificate;

5.9.o

regulations 50 to 56 (section 30A applications) were omitted in relation to
the application for building control approval for the HRB project.

###### From April 2024: local authority to notify regulator where work has not sufficiently progressed

6

6.1

No later than 6th March 2024, each local authority must give the regulator a
notice stating in respect of each relevant building for which it has not by
that date received a notice under paragraph 1(4)—

6.1.a

the name and address of the building;

6.1.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
person carrying out the work;

6.1.c

details of the intended use of the higher-risk building, including the
intended use of each storey;

6.1.d

the proposed height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023 ;

6.1.e

the proposed number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in
accordance with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and
Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023;

6.1.f

the proposed number of flats, number of residential rooms and number of
commercial units proposed to be contained in the higher-risk building;

6.1.g

the provision to be made for the drainage of the building;

6.1.h

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement, the precautions to be taken in the building over a drain, sewer
or disposal main to comply with the requirements of that paragraph;

6.1.i

the steps to be taken to comply with any local enactment that applies;

6.1.j

details of the work which has been carried out together with a summary of the
inspections undertaken by the local authority in relation to the work.

6.2

In this paragraph a “relevant building” is a building in relation to which
paragraph 1(1)(b) applies.

###### From April 2024: cases where work is to be regarded as sufficiently progressed

7

7.1

This paragraph applies where—

7.1.a

a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
in relation to work to that building was received by a local authority before
6th April 2024, and

7.1.b

in any case where an initial notice was given in relation to the work, the
approved inspector which gave the initial notice has become a registered
building control approver before 6th April 2024.

7.2

Where this paragraph applies, with effect from 6th April 2024—

7.2.a

in a case where full plans have been deposited—

7.2.a.i

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations continue not to apply to that work, and

7.2.a.ii

the 2010 Regulations continue to apply to the work but subject to Part 4
(transitional, supplementary and saving provisions) of the Building
Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2023;

7.2.b

in a case where an initial notice was given in relation to the work by an
approved inspector then for so long as the initial notice continues in force—

7.2.b.i

the initial notice given by the approved inspector is treated as if it were
given instead by that person in their capacity as a registered building
control approver,

7.2.b.ii

Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations continue not to apply to that work, and

7.2.b.iii

the 2010 Regulations and the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations
2010 continue to apply to the work, but subject to Part 4 (transitional,
supplementary and saving provisions) of the Building Regulations etc.
(Amendment) (England) Regulations 2023 and Part 4 (transitional, supplementary
and saving provisions) of the Building (Approved Inspectors etc. and Review of
Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023.

7.3

Where this paragraph applies then with effect from 6th April 2024 the local
authority for the area, and not the regulator, continues to be the building
control authority in relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the
duties and functions of local authorities under section 91 of the 1984 Act
continue to apply in relation to the work.

###### From April 2024: cases of work not sufficiently progressed with an initial notice

8

8.1

This paragraph applies where, in relation to work to a particular building,
paragraph 1 applies in respect of work for which an initial notice was in
force, but a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently
progressed) was not received by a local authority in relation to the building
before 6th April 2024.

8.2

Where this paragraph applies—

8.2.a

for the purposes of section 47(4)(b)(ii) of the 1984 Act the initial notice,
or such part of the initial notice which applies to the higher-risk building,
ceases to be in force with effect from 6th April 2024;

8.2.b

if a plans certificate or final certificate relating to the work (or any part
of the work) has been accepted before 6th April 2024 then with effect from
that date the certificate ceases to have effect;

8.2.c

subject to paragraph (d), the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to
higher-risk buildings, apply to any of the work from that date;

8.2.d

regulation 11(3) of the 2010 Regulations does not apply and accordingly the
regulator may exercise the power in section 8(3A) of the 1984 Act to dispense
with or relax any requirement of the 2010 Regulations.

8.3

Where this paragraph applies, with effect from 6th April 2024 the regulator,
and not the local authority for the area, is the building control authority in
relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the duties and functions
of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in relation to the
work to the higher-risk building (but not in relation to any other work
specified in the initial notice).

8.4

The provisions of paragraph 4(4) to (9) also apply but as if any reference to
the cancellation date were a reference to 6th April 2024.

###### From April 2024: cases of work not sufficiently progressed with full plans

9

9.1

This paragraph applies where in relation to work to a particular building
paragraph 1 applies in respect of work for which full plans were deposited but
a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
was not received by a local authority in relation to the building before 6th
April 2024.

9.2

Where this paragraph applies, with effect from 6th April 2024 the regulator,
and not the local authority for the area, is the building control authority in
relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the duties and functions
of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in relation to the
work to the higher-risk building (but not in relation to any other work
specified in the full plans).

9.3

Where this paragraph applies the person intending to carry out the work must,
within 4 weeks beginning with 6th April 2024, give to the regulator a notice
setting out—

9.3.a

the name and address of the building;

9.3.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client, the principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal
designer (or sole or lead designer);

9.3.c

details of the work to be carried out;

9.3.d

details of the intended use of the higher-risk building, including the
intended use of each storey;

9.3.e

the proposed height of the higher-risk building as determined in accordance
with regulation 5 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2023;

9.3.f

the proposed number of storeys in the higher-risk building as determined in
accordance with regulation 6 of the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and
Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023;

9.3.g

the proposed number of flats, number of residential rooms and number of
commercial units to be contained in the higher-risk building;

9.3.h

the provision to be made for the drainage of the building;

9.3.i

where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes a
requirement, the precautions to be taken in the building over a drain, sewer
or disposal main to comply with the requirements of that paragraph;

9.3.j

the steps to be taken to comply with any local enactment that applies;

9.3.k

details of the work which has been carried out together with a summary of the
inspections undertaken by the local authority in relation to the work.

9.4

The notice under sub-paragraph (3) must be accompanied by—

9.4.a

a plan to a scale of not less than 1:1250 showing—

9.4.a.i

the size and position of the proposed building and its relationship to
adjoining boundaries;

9.4.a.ii

the boundaries of the curtilage of the building, and the size, position and
use of every other building or proposed building within the curtilage;

9.4.a.iii

the width and position of any street on or within the boundaries of the
curtilage of the building;

9.4.b

where work has started, a copy of the notice given to the local authority
under regulation 16(1) (commencement notice) of the 2010 Regulations;

9.4.c

such other documents or plans which were provided to the local authority by
the person intending to carry out the work for the purpose of demonstrating
the compliance of the work or the proposed work with applicable requirements
of the building regulations;

9.4.d

a statement setting out—

9.4.d.i

any conditions imposed on the full plans;

9.4.d.ii

any changes (including any conditions related to the changes), agreed with the
local authority, to the full plans;

9.4.d.iii

any work carried out otherwise than in accordance with the full plans
(including otherwise than in accordance with any condition impose on the
plans);

9.4.e

copy of any report produced by the local authority in relation to each
inspection of the work together with a copy of any notes and photographs
relating to the inspections;

9.4.f

a statement setting out details of any enforcement action taken by the local
authority in relation to the work.

9.5

The person intending to carry out the work must give a copy of the notice to
the local authority.

9.6

Where this paragraph applies, with effect from 6th April 2024—

9.6.a

the 2010 Regulations continue to apply to the work, but subject to—

9.6.a.i

Part 4 (transitional, supplementary and saving provisions) of the Building
Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2023;

9.6.a.ii

the modifications set out in paragraph (7);

9.6.b

subject to the modifications in paragraph (c), additionally the following
provisions of these Regulations apply in relation to the work—

9.6.b.i

regulation 8 (regulator’s power to require notifications etc for HRB work or
stage of HRB work);

9.6.b.ii

where work has not started, regulation 9(2) (notice before work);

9.6.b.iii

regulation 9(3) (notice when work has commenced);

9.6.b.iv

regulation 16 (regulator’s power to require notifications etc for work to
existing HRB);

9.6.b.v

where work has not started, regulation 17(2) (notice before work);

9.6.b.vi

regulation 17(3) (notice when work has commenced);

9.6.b.vii

regulations 18 (except paragraphs (3) and (4)), and 19 to 29 (change control
etc) but as if—

9.6.b.vii.aa

any reference to an agreed document were a reference to the full plans;

9.6.b.vii.bb

sub-paragraphs (xi) and (xii) in paragraph (a), and sub-paragraphs (xi) and
(xii) in paragraph (b), of the definition of “major change” in regulation 26
were omitted;

9.6.b.vii.cc

paragraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of “notifiable change” in regulation
26 were omitted;

9.6.b.viii

regulation 31 (golden thread), but as if regulation 31(1) required the client
to establish the electronic facility—

9.6.b.viii.aa

within 45 days beginning with 6th April 2024, or

9.6.b.viii.bb

before a completion certificate application or a partial completion
certificate application is submitted,

whichever occurs first;

9.6.b.ix

regulation 32 (mandatory occurrence reporting system), but as if the reference
to establishing the system before the construction phase begins were a
reference to establishing it within 10 days beginning with 6th April 2024;

9.6.b.x

regulations 33 to 37 (mandatory occurrence reporting) but as if any reference
to an agreed document is to be treated as a reference to the full plans;

9.6.b.xi

regulations 38 and 39 (handover of information on completion etc);

9.6.b.xii

regulation 40 (completion certificate applications) but as if paragraphs (i),
(ii) and (iii) of paragraph (2)(d) were omitted;

9.6.b.xiii

regulations 41 to 44 (completion certificates etc);

9.6.b.xiv

regulation 45 (partial completion certificate applications) but as if
paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (3)(c) were omitted;

9.6.b.xv

regulation 46 (inspections etc);

9.6.b.xvi

regulations 48 to 56 (reviews and appeals etc) but only to the extent those
provisions apply in relation to a change control application or completion
certificate application or a partial completion certificate application;

9.6.b.xvii

regulation 58 (requirement for completion certificate before occupation);

9.6.b.xviii

regulation 59 (electronic submission and directions);

9.6.c

any reference in regulations 23, 26, 40, 42 and 45 to a “fire and emergency
file” were a reference to a document setting out the fire safety design
principles, concepts and standards applied to the development including
sufficient plans to show how the work would comply with Part B (fire safety)
of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations in relation to the higher-risk building
or proposed higher-risk building.

9.7

The 2010 Regulations have effect with the following modifications—

9.7.a

as if any reference in any provision to a local authority, however so
expressed, were a reference to the regulator;

9.7.b

as if regulations 16(3) to (5), 17, 17A, 18, 18A, 18B, 38, 39, 40, 40A and 40B
of the 2010 Regulations were omitted.

9.8

Where the regulator receives any document under sub-paragraph (6) it may, by
notice in writing, require the client—

9.8.a

to provide further information specified in the notice by the time specified
in the notice;

9.8.b

to take such steps (including tests) as are specified in the notice by the
time specified in the notice to demonstrate the work will comply with all
applicable requirements of the building regulations.

9.9

Where a notice is given to the client under sub-paragraph (8), that person
must not start or, as the case may be, continue the work to which the notice
relates for a period of 10 days beginning on the day after the day on which
the notice is received.

###### From April 2024: cases where work has sufficiently progressed but approved inspector is not a registered building control approver

10

10.1

This paragraph applies where—

10.1.a

paragraph 1 applies in relation to a particular building in respect of work
for which an initial notice was in force on 6th April 2024 but the approved
inspector which gave the notice was not a registered building control approver
on that date, and

10.1.b

a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
in relation to that work was received by a local authority before 6th April
2024.

10.2

Where this paragraph applies—

10.2.a

for the purposes of section 47(4)(b)(ii) of the 1984 Act the initial notice
or, such part of the notice which relates to the higher-risk building, ceases
to be in force with effect from 6th April 2024;

10.2.b

if a final certificate relating to the work (or any part of the work which
relates to the higher-risk building) has been accepted before 6th April 2024
then with effect from the notice date the function of enforcing building
regulations that is conferred on the regulator by section 91(3) of the 1984
Act is not exercisable in relation to that work;

10.2.c

if a plans certificate relating to the work (or any part of the work which
relates to the higher-risk building) has been accepted before 6th April 2024
then with effect from the notice date the certificate ceases to have effect;

10.2.d

accordingly Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations apply to the work from 6th April
2024 with the modifications provided for in paragraph 5(9) (as applied by
paragraph (4));

10.2.e

subject to paragraph (f), the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to
higher-risk buildings, apply to any of the work from that date;

10.2.f

regulation 11(3) of the 2010 Regulations does not apply and accordingly the
regulator may exercise the power in section 8(3A) of the 1984 Act to dispense
with or relax any requirement of the 2010 Regulations.

10.3

Where this paragraph applies, with effect from 6th April 2024 the regulator,
and not the local authority for the area, is the building control authority in
relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the duties and functions
of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in relation to the
work to the higher-risk building (but not in relation to any other work
specified in the initial notice).

10.4

The provisions of paragraph 5(4) to (9) also apply but as if any reference to
the cancellation date were a reference to 6th April 2024.

###### From April 2024: cases where work has sufficiently progressed and then initial notice ceases

11

11.1

This paragraph applies where—

11.1.a

paragraph 1 applies in relation to a particular building in respect of work
for which an initial notice was in force on 6th April 2024;

11.1.b

a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
in relation to that work was received by a local authority before 6th April
2024;

11.1.c

the initial notice for the work, or such part of the notice which relates to
the higher-risk building, ceases to be in force by virtue of any provision of
Part 2 of the 1984 Act on a date after 6th April 2024 (“the cancellation
date”).

11.2

Where this paragraph applies—

11.2.a

if a final certificate relating to the work (or any part of the work which
relates to the higher-risk building) has been accepted before the cancellation
date then with effect from the notice date the function of enforcing building
regulations that is conferred on the regulator by section 91(3) of the 1984
Act is not exercisable in relation to that work;

11.2.b

if a plans certificate relating to the work (or any part of the work which
relates to the higher-risk building) has been accepted before the cancellation
date then with effect from the notice date the certificate ceases to have
effect;

11.2.c

accordingly Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations apply to the work from the
cancellation date with the modifications provided for in paragraph 5(9) (as
applied by paragraph (4));

11.2.d

subject to paragraph (e), the 2010 Regulations, to the extent they apply to
higher-risk buildings, apply to any of the work from that date;

11.2.e

regulation 11(3) of the 2010 Regulations does not apply and accordingly the
regulator may exercise the power in section 8(3A) of the 1984 Act to dispense
with or relax any requirement of the 2010 Regulations.

11.3

Where this paragraph applies, with effect from the cancellation date the
regulator, and not the local authority for the area, is the building control
authority in relation to the higher-risk building and accordingly the duties
and functions of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in
relation to the work to the higher-risk building (but not in relation to any
other work specified in the initial notice).

11.4

The provisions of paragraph 5(4) to (9) also apply.

##### Enforcement and interpretation

###### Contravention of certain provisions not to be an offence etc

12

12.1

The following provisions of this Schedule are prescribed for the purposes of
section 35(2) of the 1984 Act as provisions in relation to which section 35(1)
does not apply—

12.1.a

paragraphs 4(4) and 5(4) (including as applied by paragraphs 15(4) and 16(4))
(duties of approved inspectors);

12.1.b

paragraph 6 (from April 2024: local authority to notify regulator where work
has not sufficiently progressed).

12.2

The following provisions of this Schedule are prescribed for the purposes of
section 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act as provisions in relation to which a
compliance notice  may not be given—

12.2.a

paragraphs 4(4) and 5(4) (including as applied by paragraphs 15(4) and 16(4))
(duties of approved inspectors);

12.2.b

paragraph 6 (from April 2024: local authority to notify regulator where work
has not sufficiently progressed).

###### Interpretation

13

13.1

For the purposes of this Schedule—

      “initial notice” is a notice given under section 47 of the 1984 Act;
“ full plans ” means plans deposited with a local authority for the purposes
of section 16 of the 1984 Act in accordance with regulations 12(2)(b) and 14
of the 2010 Regulations (as those provisions had effect immediately before 1st
October 2023).

13.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), any reference to work to which an initial notice
relates is to be construed as a reference to that work as varied by an
amendment notice given under section 51A of the 1984 Act  which has been
accepted.

13.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the amendment notice under section 51A
of the 1984 Act is given on or after 1st October 2023 and is such that the
work as varied becomes higher-risk building work.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This instrument is part of a number of Regulations which implement Part 3 of
the Building Safety Act  2022 (c. 30) .

  Section 91ZA of the Building Act 1984 (as inserted by section 32 of the
Building Safety Act 2022, which is to come into force on 1st October 2023,
provides for the regulator to be the building control authority in relation to
any higher-risk building in England and any proposed higher-risk building.

  The requirements in the Building Regulations 2010 continue to apply to
higher-risk buildings. Amendments (to be made elsewhere) to those Regulations
disapply most of the procedural requirements in those Regulations,
consequently procedures in this instrument apply instead.

  Part 2 of these Regulations sets out the procedures for applying for
building control approval in relation to higher-risk buildings. Applications
must be submitted to the regulator giving the information required and
accompanied by the plans and documents required. Building control approval
may, with the applicant’s consent, be subject to a requirement, for example,
to not progress beyond a specified point without agreement of the regulator or
that more detailed plans or documents could be approved by the regulator at a
later date.

  Part 3 of these Regulations sets out the change control process where any
document relating to the work which was approved by the regulator at the
application stage (or subsequently under a requirement or a change control) is
to be changed. And provision is also made in this Part for change to the
client, principal contractor or principal designer, insolvency etc of a client
and variation of a requirement imposed on a building control approval.

  Part 4 of these Regulations sets out provisions in relation the golden
thread information, mandatory occurrence reporting and the handover of
information on completion of the work.

  Part 5 of these Regulations sets out the procedures for applying for a
completion certificate in relation to higher-risk buildings. Applications must
be submitted to the regulator giving the information required and accompanied
by the plans and documents required. Provision is also made for partial
completion certificates where it is proposed a building (or part of a
building) is occupied before all of the higher-risk building work is
completed.

  Part 6 of these Regulations sets out provision relating to inspections,
testing and sampling, regularisation of unauthorised work, review by the
regulator of its decisions, and appeals in relation to reviewed decisions and
the procedure under section 30A of the Building Act 1984 (which provides that
a request can be made to the Secretary of State for determination of an
application where the regulator has not made a decision within the time limit
prescribed).

  Part 7 of these Regulations defines exempt work, gives the regulator the
power by direction to require an application to be sent to it via a specified
method, and also sets out those provisions in relation to which a stop notice
under section 35C of that Act may be given. Part 7 also includes consequential
amendments to the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ( S.I. 2005/1541
); the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/948 ); and
the Building Safety (Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations
2023 ( S.I. 2023/753 ). Schedule 3 to these Regulations sets out transitional,
supplementary and saving provisions in relation to projects for higher-risk
building work for which plans were deposited or initial notices given before
1st October 2023.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs to business is published with an Explanatory Memorandum alongside the
instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

