Title: The Representation of the People (Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review) (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-09-11
Description: These Regulations make provision related to the change in franchise for citizens of the European Union for local government elections in Northern Ireland.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1176

## The Representation of the People (Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review) (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2023

    Representation Of The People, Northern Ireland

  Made   30th October 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 10A(6), (7) and (9), 13(1), 53(1) and (3), 58(2)(a),
201(3) and 202(1) of, and paragraphs 1(2) and 3A(1), (2) and (3) of Schedule 2
to, the Representation of the People Act 1983 .       The Secretary of State
has consulted the Electoral Commission, in accordance with section 7(1) and
(2)(e) of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 .
A draft of these Regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution
of each House of Parliament in accordance with section 201(2) of the
Representation of the People Act 1983 .

### Introduction


#### Citation, commencement, extent and savings


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Representation of the People (Franchise
Amendment and Eligibility Review) (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2023.

1.2

This regulation comes into force on the day after the day on which these
Regulations are made and the remainder of these Regulations come into force on
7th May 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to Northern Ireland only.

1.4

The amendments made by regulations 18 and  19  do not apply to an application
under section 10A(1)(a) or 13A(1)(a)  of the 1983 Act made before 7th May
2024.

#### Interpretation: general


2

In these Regulations—

      “ 1983 Act ” means the Representation of the People Act 1983;
“ 2008 Regulations ” means the Representation of the People (Northern Ireland)
Regulations 2008 ;           “ Chief Electoral Officer ” means the Chief
Electoral Officer for Northern Ireland.

### Review of registration entitlement of relevant citizens of the Union in Northern Ireland


#### Interpretation


##### Interpretation of Part 2


3

In this Part—

      “ notification of possible removal ” has the meaning given by regulation
8(2) ;           “ relevant person ” means a relevant citizen of the Union  (“
C ”) who meets either of the following conditions—         that, on the coming
into force of this Part, C—         is registered in a register of local
electors in Northern Ireland, or           is a person whom the Chief
Electoral Officer is required to enter in such a register in accordance with
section 13A of the 1983 Act, or                 that C has submitted an
application under section 13A(1)(a) of the 1983 Act for registration in a
register of local electors before the coming into force of this Part, and that
application is granted on or after the coming into force of this Part;“
revised registration criteria ” means the criteria for registration set out in
section 4(3)(c) of the 1983 Act .

##### Meaning of “address” in specified circumstances


4

4.1

This regulation applies where a relevant person is registered pursuant to—

4.1.a

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act ,

4.1.b

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B  of the 1983 Act, or

4.1.c

a service declaration .

4.2

Where this regulation applies, references in this Part to the relevant
person’s address are to—

4.2.a

for a person who has made a declaration of local connection, the address
stated by the person in that declaration pursuant to section 7B(3)(a)(i) of
the 1983 Act, or the address of the Chief Electoral Officer’s office (as the
case may be);

4.2.b

for a person who is registered pursuant to an application for anonymous entry,
the address given pursuant to regulation 27(1)(b) or 38A(6) of the 2008
Regulations (as the case may be);

4.2.c

for a person who is registered pursuant to a service declaration, the address
stated in the service declaration.

#### Review of registration entitlement of relevant citizens of the Union in Northern Ireland


##### Duty to determine whether relevant citizens of the Union satisfy the revised registration criteria


5

5.1

The Chief Electoral Officer must, in accordance with regulations  6  to  14 ,
determine in the case of each relevant person whether the person satisfies the
revised registration criteria.

5.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the Chief Electoral Officer must make the
determination by the end of 31st January 2025.

5.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply where at the end of 31st January 2025—

5.3.a

the Chief Electoral Officer has requested information from a relevant person
under regulation  10 , and the date for response specified in that request has
not yet passed,

5.3.b

the 14-day period within which the relevant person may require a review
hearing following notification from the Chief Electoral Officer pursuant to
regulation  12  has not yet expired, or

5.3.c

the relevant person has required a hearing pursuant to regulation  12(4) ,
and—

5.3.c.i

the review has not yet been heard, or

5.3.c.ii

the review has been heard but the subject of the review has not been notified
of the outcome of the review,

and in consequence the Chief Electoral Officer has not made a determination.

5.4

Where paragraph (3) applies, the Chief Electoral Officer must make the
determination specified in paragraph (1) as soon as reasonably practicable
after 31st January 2025.

5.5

Nothing in this Chapter prevents the Chief Electoral Officer from reviewing
the eligibility of a relevant person to be or to remain registered in
accordance with section 10A of the 1983 Act for reasons other than that they
are a relevant person.

##### Procedure for reviewing entitlement to registration – data-based review


6

6.1

The Chief Electoral Officer must in the case of each relevant person conduct a
review to determine whether they continue to be a person who satisfies the
revised registration criteria.

6.2

As part of a review under paragraph (1), the Chief Electoral Officer may
consider (amongst other things) any information provided in accordance with
regulation 27(1)(caa)  of the 2008 Regulations as part of an application
received from a relevant person pursuant to section 13A(1)(a) of the 1983 Act.

##### Procedure for reviewing entitlement to registration – correspondence-based review


7

7.1

Subject to paragraph (2), where the Chief Electoral Officer is not satisfied
following a review under regulation  6  that a relevant person satisfies the
revised registration criteria, the Chief Electoral Officer must—

7.1.a

give notice to that person containing the information specified at paragraph
(3) (a “first review notice”), and

7.1.b

enter the review in the list kept pursuant to regulation 37 of the 2008
Regulations.

7.2

Where the relevant person is registered pursuant to—

7.2.a

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act,

7.2.b

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act, or

7.2.c

a service declaration,

and the date on which the relevant person’s entitlement to remain registered
under (as the case may be) section 7C, 9C or 15 of the 1983 Act  expires is
before the end of 31st January 2025, paragraph (1) is to be read as if for
“must” there were substituted  “may” .

7.3

A first review notice must—

7.3.a

explain that the criteria under section 4(3) to (6) of the 1983 Act by which a
citizen of a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of
local electors have changed,

7.3.b

state that the Chief Electoral Officer is not satisfied that the relevant
person remains entitled to be registered, and the grounds for the Chief
Electoral Officer’s opinion,

7.3.c

specify any further information relating to whether that person satisfies the
revised registration criteria that the Chief Electoral Officer requests the
relevant person to provide,

7.3.d

provide information on how the relevant person may respond to the request for
information, and

7.3.e

state that it is an offence to provide false information to the Chief
Electoral Officer, and the maximum penalty for that offence.

7.4

Paragraph (5) applies where—

7.4.a

the Chief Electoral Officer gives a first review notice to a relevant person,
and

7.4.b

that person does not respond within a reasonable time from the date on which
that notice is given.

7.5

The Chief Electoral Officer must give a further notice to the relevant person,
setting out the same information as at paragraph (3) (a “second review
notice”).

7.6

Subject to paragraph (7), a first or second review notice may be given to a
relevant person either—

7.6.a

by sending it to the person’s address, or

7.6.b

by electronic means.

7.7

Where the first review notice was given to a relevant person by electronic
means, the second review notice must be sent to the person’s address.

7.8

The Chief Electoral Officer may contact the relevant person, either by
telephone or by visiting the address to which a first or second review notice
was delivered, in order to—

7.8.a

obtain information requested in the notice, or

7.8.b

encourage the relevant person to provide the information requested.

##### Notification of possible removal in the event of non-response


8

8.1

Paragraph  (2)  applies where—

8.1.a

the Chief Electoral Officer has given a second review notice to a relevant
person, and

8.1.b

the relevant person has not responded within a reasonable time from the date
on which that notice was given.

8.2

The Chief Electoral Officer must send a notice to the relevant person (a
“notification of possible removal”) which must—

8.2.a

include the information set out in regulation  7(3) ,

8.2.b

state the date of issue of the notice, and

8.2.c

state that if within 14 days beginning with the date of issue the Chief
Electoral Officer has not received the information requested—

8.2.c.i

the Chief Electoral Officer may determine the review and remove the person’s
entry from the register, and

8.2.c.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the Chief
Electoral Officer’s determination.

8.3

A notification of possible removal must be delivered to the relevant person by
paper communication to the person’s address, accompanied by a pre-addressed
reply envelope, return postage of which must be prepaid.

##### Requirement to attempt personal contact with relevant person


9

9.1

This regulation applies where—

9.1.a

the Chief Electoral Officer has issued a notification of possible removal to a
relevant person,

9.1.b

the relevant person is not registered pursuant to—

9.1.b.i

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act,

9.1.b.ii

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act, or

9.1.b.iii

a service declaration,

9.1.c

the relevant person has not responded to the notification of possible removal,
and

9.1.d

the Chief Electoral Officer has not previously attempted to contact the
relevant person by telephone or by visiting the address.

9.2

Where this regulation applies, within 7 days beginning with the date of issue
of the notification of possible removal, the Chief Electoral Officer must
attempt to contact the relevant person, either by telephone or by visiting the
address, in order to—

9.2.a

obtain information requested in the notification, or

9.2.b

encourage the relevant person to provide the information requested.

9.3

Where this regulation applies, the Chief Electoral Officer must not determine
that the relevant person has ceased to satisfy the registration criteria
before that Officer has attempted to contact the relevant person in accordance
with paragraph  (2) .

9.4

In this regulation, the “ address ” means the address to which the first or
second review notice under regulation  7(1)  or  (5)  was delivered.

##### Request for further information


10

10.1

Paragraph  (2)  applies where—

10.1.a

the Chief Electoral Officer has sent a first or second review notice or
notification of possible removal to the relevant person, and

10.1.b

the relevant person has responded.

10.2

If the Chief Electoral Officer requests further information from the relevant
person for the purposes of the determination under regulation  5(1) , the
request must state that if by a specified date that is a reasonable time after
the request was issued the Chief Electoral Officer has not received the
information requested—

10.2.a

the Chief Electoral Officer may determine the review and remove the person’s
entry from the register, and

10.2.b

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the Chief
Electoral Officer’s determination.

##### Confirmation of continued registration following review


11

11.1

Where, in accordance with this Chapter, the Chief Electoral Officer determines
that a relevant person satisfies the revised registration criteria, the Chief
Electoral Officer must—

11.1.a

send a confirmation notice to that person in accordance with paragraph (2),
and

11.1.b

mark that person’s name in accordance with regulation 51(3A) of the 2008
Regulations .

11.2

A confirmation notice under paragraph (1) must—

11.2.a

be sent to the person’s address, or by electronic means,

11.2.b

state that the criteria under section 4(3) to (6) of the 1983 Act by which a
citizen of a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of
local electors have changed, and

11.2.c

state that the Chief Electoral Officer has determined that the relevant person
satisfies those criteria.

##### Procedure for removal following response to communications


12

12.1

This regulation applies where—

12.1.a

a relevant person has responded to a notice, notification or request under
regulations  7  to  10  or has provided requested information in response to
the Chief Electoral Officer making contact with that person, and

12.1.b

the Chief Electoral Officer is not satisfied that the relevant person
satisfies the revised registration criteria.

12.2

The Chief Electoral Officer must send a notice to the relevant person’s
address, which must—

12.2.a

state the date of issue of the notice,

12.2.b

advise that the criteria under section 4(3) to (6) of the 1983 Act by which a
citizen of a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of
local electors have changed,

12.2.c

state that the Chief Electoral Officer is of the opinion that the relevant
person does not satisfy the revised registration criteria, and the grounds for
the Chief Electoral Officer’s opinion,

12.2.d

state that if the relevant person does not within 14 days beginning with the
date of issue notify the Chief Electoral Officer that the relevant person
requires a review hearing—

12.2.d.i

the Chief Electoral Officer may determine the review and remove the relevant
person’s entry from the register, and

12.2.d.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the Chief
Electoral Officer’s determination in those circumstances, and

12.2.e

state that after 14 days beginning with the date of issue, the relevant person
can contact the Chief Electoral Officer to find out if the Chief Electoral
Officer has removed the relevant person’s entry from the register.

12.3

Subject to paragraph  (4) , where the Chief Electoral Officer has delivered
the notice under paragraph (2), that Officer may determine that the relevant
person does not satisfy the revised registration criteria and (if such a
determination is made) remove the relevant person’s entry from the register.

12.4

The Chief Electoral Officer may not make a determination under paragraph  (3)
if, within 14 days beginning with the date of issue of the notice mentioned in
that paragraph, the relevant person notifies the Chief Electoral Officer that
the person requires a hearing.

12.5

Where the relevant person requires a review hearing pursuant to paragraph  (4)
, paragraphs (2) to (7) of regulation 38 of the 2008 Regulations apply (and
see also regulation  13(2) ).

12.6

Regulation 44(2)(c) of the 2008 Regulations (copy of notice to be sent to
affected persons) does not apply in respect of a notice under section 13A(2)
of the 1983 Act resulting from the determination mentioned in paragraph (3).

##### Notification of outcome of reviews


13

13.1

This regulation applies where the Chief Electoral Officer has sent a notice to
a relevant person’s address under regulation  12(2) .

13.2

If, within 14 days beginning with the date of issue of the notice, the
relevant person requires the review to be heard the Chief Electoral Officer
must notify the relevant person in writing of the outcome of the review
hearing and when doing so—

13.2.a

state whether there is a right of appeal under section 58(1)(b) of the 1983
Act,

13.2.b

specify the time within which any notice of appeal under that section must be
given (in accordance with regulation 39(2) of the 2008 Regulations), and

13.2.c

provide such other information about the appeal as the Chief Electoral Officer
considers necessary.

13.3

If the relevant person does not within those 14 days require the review to be
heard—

13.3.a

the Chief Electoral Officer may notify the person of the outcome of the
review, and

13.3.b

if the Chief Electoral Officer makes in relation to that person a
determination pursuant to regulation  12(3) , that Officer may inform the
person that (in accordance with section 58(2)(a) of the 1983 Act) there is no
right of appeal against that determination.

##### Confirmation of ceased registration following non-response to communications


14

14.1

This regulation applies where a relevant person does not respond—

14.1.a

to a notification of possible removal within the period of 14 days beginning
with the date of issue of that notification, or

14.1.b

to a request for further information under regulation  10(2)  following a
notification of possible removal, by the date specified in that request.

14.2

Where this regulation applies—

14.2.a

the Chief Electoral Officer may determine that the relevant person does not
satisfy the revised registration criteria, and

14.2.b

if the Chief Electoral Officer does so, that Officer must—

14.2.b.i

send to the relevant person’s address a notification containing the
information set out in paragraph (3), and

14.2.b.ii

remove the relevant person’s entry from the register.

14.3

A notification under paragraph (2) must—

14.3.a

advise that the criteria under section 4(3) to (6) of the 1983 Act by which a
citizen of a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of
local electors have changed,

14.3.b

state that the Chief Electoral Officer has determined that the relevant person
does not satisfy those criteria, and the Chief Electoral Officer’s reasoning
for that determination,

14.3.c

state that there is no right of appeal against that determination,

14.3.d

state that the relevant person’s entry has accordingly been removed from the
register and that the person may apply to register again if they consider they
are eligible to do so, and

14.3.e

be accompanied by an electoral registration application form and by a pre-
addressed reply envelope, return postage of which must be pre-paid.

14.4

Regulation 44(2)(c) of the 2008 Regulations does not apply in respect of a
notice under section 13A(2) of the 1983 Act resulting from the determination
mentioned in paragraph (2)(a).

#### Supplementary provisions for Chapter 2


##### Applications to register during correspondence-based review


15

15.1

This regulation applies where the Chief Electoral Officer receives an
application from a relevant person pursuant to section 13A(1)(a) of the 1983
Act—

15.1.a

following the sending to that relevant person in accordance with Chapter 2 of
a first or second review notice, notification of possible removal or request
for further information, and

15.1.b

before the Chief Electoral Officer has—

15.1.b.i

issued a notice pursuant to regulation  11(1) ,

15.1.b.ii

issued a notification pursuant to regulation  14(2) , or

15.1.b.iii

made a determination pursuant to regulation  12(3) .

15.2

The Chief Electoral Officer must treat information provided within the
application in accordance with regulation 27(1)(caa)  of the 2008 Regulations
as a response to a review notice, notification of possible removal or request
for information (as the case may be).

### Additional provision related to the franchise change for EU citizens


#### Date for publication of revised registers for 2024


16

In the application of section 13(1) of the 1983 Act to the year 2024, the date
prescribed for the purposes of paragraph (a) or (as the case may be) paragraph
(b) of that subsection is 1 February 2025.

### Amendments relating to applications to register by qualifying EU citizens and EU citizens with retained rights


#### Amendment of the 2008 Regulations


17

The 2008 Regulations are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 27 (applications for registration)


18

18.1

Regulation 27 (applications for registration) is amended as follows.

18.2

In paragraph (1), after sub-paragraph (ca), insert—

18.2.caa

in the case of an applicant who is a citizen of a Member State of the European
Union that is not listed in Schedule 6A to the 1983 Act , other than a citizen
of Cyprus, Malta or the Republic of Ireland, an indication as to whether the
applicant meets the requirements set out in section 203B(1) of the 1983 Act ;

.

18.3

After paragraph (3) insert—

18.3.3ZA

Where the registration officer provides the form on which an application for
registration is made, the form must include—

18.3.3ZA.a

the following statements—

18.3.3ZA.a.i

that persons without lawful immigration status are ineligible to register to
vote;

18.3.3ZA.a.ii

that the registration officer may request checks in relation to an applicant’s
immigration status against Home Office records, and that, for persons applying
to register as EU citizens with retained rights only, this may include checks
in relation to historical immigration status;

18.3.3ZA.b

a statement that a person is ineligible to vote unless the person is—

18.3.3ZA.b.i

a qualifying Commonwealth citizen,

18.3.3ZA.b.ii

a citizen of the Republic of Ireland,

18.3.3ZA.b.iii

a qualifying EU citizen, or

18.3.3ZA.b.iv

an EU citizen with retained rights;

18.3.3ZA.c

a statement that the registration officer may require the applicant to provide
additional information in relation to nationality, may carry out checks
against Government records, and that, for persons applying to register as EU
citizens with retained rights only, this may include checks in relation to
historical nationality.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 51 (marking of names)


19

In regulation 51 (marking of names)—

19.a

in paragraph (1), for “(3),” substitute  “(3A),” ;

19.b

omit paragraph (3);

19.c

before paragraph (5), insert—

19.c.3A

To indicate that a qualifying EU citizen or an EU citizen with retained rights
is registered only in the register of local electors, the letter “B” shall be
placed against the person’s entry.

.

      Steve Baker   Minister of State   Northern Ireland Office     30th
October 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision related to the change in franchise for
citizens of the European Union for local government elections in Northern
Ireland.

  Part 2 provides, at Chapter 2, a process for the review of the entitlement
of citizens of member States of the European Union to remain registered on the
register of local electors in Northern Ireland following the change in
registration criteria in section 4 of the Representation of the People Act
1983 (c. 2) .

  Part 3 provides for a revised date by which the Chief Electoral Officer for
Northern Ireland must publish under section 13 of the Representation of the
People Act 1983 revised versions of the Officer’s electoral registers for
2024.

  Part 4 makes amendments to the Representation of the People (Northern
Ireland) Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1741 ) regarding the content of
applications for registration on the register of local electors in Northern
Ireland, and the marking of certain entries in registers to indicate that an
EU citizen is registered only in the register of local electors.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument, and the
corresponding instrument for local and Police and Crime Commissioner elections
in England, will have on the costs of business, the voluntary sector and the
public sector is available from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities at 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF and published with the
Explanatory Memorandum alongside this instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

