Title: The Care and Support (Charging) and (Financial Assessment) (Wales) (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend the Care and Support (Charging) (Wales) Regulations 2015 (“the Charging Regulations”) and the Care and Support (Financial Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2015 (“the Financial Assessment Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/67

## The Care and Support (Charging) and (Financial Assessment) (Wales) (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023

    Social Care, Wales

  Made   23 January 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   25 January 2023

  Coming into force   10 April 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 50, 52, 53(3), 61, 64(1), 64(2)(b), 66 and 196(2)
of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 .

### Title and coming into force

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Care and Support (Charging) and
(Financial Assessment) (Wales) (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 10 April 2023.

### Amendment of the Care and Support (Charging) (Wales) Regulations 2015

2

The Care and Support (Charging) (Wales) Regulations 2015  are amended as
follows—

2.a

in regulation 13 (minimum income amount where a person is provided with
accommodation in a care home), for “£35” substitute  “£39.50” ;

2.b

in regulation 28 (minimum income amount where a person is provided with
accommodation in a care home), for “£35” substitute  “£39.50” .

### Amendment of the Care and Support (Financial Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2015

3

The Care and Support (Financial Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2015  are
amended as follows—

3.a

in Schedule 2 (capital to be disregarded)—

3.a.i

in paragraph 20, in the parenthetical description of paragraphs 21 to 24 of
Schedule 10 of the Income Support Regulations, after the words “Independent
Living Fund” insert  “, any Grenfell Tower payment, child abuse payment,
Windrush payment and any payment made by the Child Migrants Trust under the
scheme for former British child migrants” ;

3.a.ii

after paragraph 39 insert—

3.a.ii.40

Any payment made under the Energy Bill Support Scheme as directed  by the
Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy pursuant to
sections 7(3)(a) and 107 of the Electricity Act 1989 .

3.a.ii.41

Any payment made under sections 1, 4 and 5 of the Social Security (Additional
Payments) Act 2022  (means-tested additional payments and disability
additional payments).

      Julie Morgan   Deputy Minister for Social Services, under the authority
of the Minister for Health and Social Services, one of the Welsh Ministers
23 January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Care and Support (Charging) (Wales) Regulations
2015  (“ the Charging Regulations ”) and the Care and Support (Financial
Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2015  (“ the Financial Assessment Regulations
”).

  The Charging Regulations set out the requirements which local authorities
must follow when making a determination of the amount of the charges which
apply in relation to care and support which they are providing or arranging in
the course of carrying out their functions under Part 4 of the Social Services
and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (“ the Act ”). The Charging Regulations also
contain parallel provisions setting out requirements which apply when a local
authority makes direct payments to meet a person’s need for care and support.

  The Financial Assessment Regulations make provision under the Act about the
way in which a local authority must carry out a financial assessment of a
person’s (“ A ”) financial resources in the following cases:         where the
authority thinks that if it were to meet A’s needs for care and support (or a
carer’s needs for support) it would impose a charge under section 59 of the
Act, or           where the authority thinks that if it were to make payments
towards meeting the cost of A’s needs for care and support (or a carer’s need
for support) by making direct payments by virtue of section 50 or 52 of the
Act, it would require A to pay, by way of reimbursement (in the case of gross
payments) or contribution (in the case of net payments), towards the cost of
securing the provision of that care and support.

  Regulation 2 of this instrument amends regulation 13 of the Charging
Regulations (minimum income amount where a person is provided with
accommodation in a care home) to increase the net weekly income amount from
£35 to £39.50. Regulation 28 is also amended to make corresponding change for
a recipient of direct payments.

  Regulation 3(a)(i) of this instrument amends the descriptive wording of
paragraph 20(1) of Schedule 2 to the Financial Assessment Regulations to
include the following:         Grenfell Tower payment,           child abuse
payment,           Windrush payment, or           payments made by the Child
Migrants Trust.

  These schemes are already disregarded through the effect of paragraph 20 of
Schedule 2 through their inclusion in the Income Support (General) Regulations
1987 and they are added in the descriptive words for clarity.

  Regulation 3(a)(ii) of this instrument amends Schedule 2 to the Financial
Assessment Regulations as follows:         payments made under the Energy Bill
Support Scheme,           payments made under the Social Security (Additional
Payments) Act 2022,

  are to be disregarded in the calculation of an adult’s capital.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of regulatory
impact assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, a regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely
costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained
from Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ and is published on
www.gov.wales .

