Title: The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-04-12
Description: These Regulations replace the Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022. These Regulations act to—enable different rates to be made and levied on the rateable net annual values of premises and the rateable capital values of premises (regulation 2 and 3);revoke the Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 with savings (regulation 4).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/1

## The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

Rates

Made 5th January 2023

Coming into operation 1st February 2023

The Department of Finance  makes the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by Article 6(6)  of the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as The Rates (Making and Levying of Different
Rates) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on
1st February 2023.

### Making and levying of different rates

2

In respect of the year ending on 31st March 2024 and each subsequent year,
different regional and district rates may be made and levied on—

2.a

the rateable net annual values of hereditaments; and

2.b

the rateable capital values of hereditaments.

3

In making district rates in accordance with regulation 2, a district council
shall take into consideration the formula laid out in the Schedule.

### Revocation and savings

4

4.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (8), The Rates (Making and Levying of Different
Rates) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022  (“ the 2022 Regulations ”) are
revoked.

4.2

The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) (No.2) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997  shall continue to apply in respect of the year ending on 31st
March 2003 and earlier years.

4.3

The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2002  shall continue to apply in respect of the four year period
ending on 31st March 2007.

4.4

The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006  shall continue to apply in respect of the eight year period
ending on 31st March 2015.

4.5

The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015  shall continue to apply in respect of the five year period
ending on 31st March 2020.

4.6

The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2020  shall continue to apply in respect of the one year period
ending on 31st March 2021.

4.7

The Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2021  shall continue to apply in respect of the year ending on 31st
March 2022.

4.8

The 2022 Regulations shall continue to apply in respect of the one year period
ending on 31st March 2023.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 5th January
2023. (L.S.) Sharon Magee A senior officer of the Department of Finance

Formula

Regulation 3

1

In respect of the year ending on 31st March 2024 and each subsequent year, in
making the district rates referred to in regulation 2, a district council
shall consider whether to make a capital value district rate in accordance
with the formula—

A = B × C where— A is the capital value district rate; B is the net annual
value district rate; and C is the conversion factor for that council as set
out in Table 1.

2

In paragraph 1—

“ capital value district rate ”, in relation to a district council, means a
district rate made by that council on the rateable capital values of
hereditaments in the district; “ net annual value district rate ”, in relation
to a district council, means a district rate made by that council on the
rateable net annual values of hereditaments in the district. Table 1
Conversion factors for district councils Council Conversion factor Antrim and
Newtownabbey 0.014881 Ards and North Down 0.014707 Armagh City, Banbridge and
Craigavon 0.016925 Belfast 0.013119 Causeway Coast and Glens 0.016128 Derry
City and Strabane 0.016084 Fermanagh and Omagh 0.016516 Lisburn and
Castlereagh 0.014235 Mid and East Antrim 0.013853 Mid Ulster 0.014781 Newry,
Mourne and Down 0.016107

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations replace the Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022. These Regulations act to— a enable
different rates to be made and levied on the rateable net annual values of
premises and the rateable capital values of premises (regulation 2 and 3); b
revoke the Rates (Making and Levying of Different Rates) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2022 with savings (regulation 4).

