Title: The Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-11-03
Description: This Order amends the Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 104) to increase the fees to be taken in non-contentious probate proceedings over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024) and to include a fee for a certified or sealed copy of any document.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/164

## The Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

Court Of Judicature

Made 10th October 2023

Coming into operation 1st November 2023

The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
116(1) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978  and now vested in it ,
makes the following Order with the concurrence of the Department of Finance .
The Department has, in accordance with section 116(1) of that Act, consulted
with the Lady Chief Justice.

### Citation and commencement


1

This Order may be cited as the Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate)
Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation
on 1st November 2023.

### Amendment of the Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996


2

The Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees Order (Northern
Ireland) 1996  is amended as follows.

3

For Schedule 1 substitute the new Schedule 1 set out in the Schedule to this
Order.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 10th October
2023 Richard Pengelly A senior officer of the Department of Justice The
Department of Finance concurs in the making of this Order. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 10th October 2023 Patrick Neeson
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

Article 3

Article 4

Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Item Fee £ Document to be endorsed As from 01/11/23
As from 01/10/24 Application for grant: general 1. On an application for a
grant (or for resealing a grant) other than an application to which Fee No. 3
applies— The requisition a) if the assessed value does not exceed £10,000 No
fee No fee b) if the assessed value exceeds £10,000 £284.00 £310.00 Personal
application fee 2. In addition to (1) on an application for a grant by a
personal applicant where the value of the estate exceeds £10,000 £71.00 £77.00
The requisition Special applications 3. On an application for— a) a grant in
respect of an estate exempt from inheritance tax by virtue of section 154 of
the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (exemption for members of the armed forces,
etc.); £213.00 £232.00 b) a grant limited to trust property; £213.00 £232.00
c) a duplicate grant; £213.00 £232.00 d) any second or subsequent grant
(including one following a revoked grant) in respect of the same deceased
person, other than a grant preceded only by a grant limited to trust property
or to a part of the estate £213.00 £232.00 The requisition Alteration in
grants, etc. 4. For making any notation on or amendment to the grant and
record after issue, or impounding or revoking a grant, appointing a guardian
or an administrator in cases of mental or physical incapacity or releasing an
impounded grant inclusive of filing any document, or preparing any memorandum
under the Inheritance (Provisions for Family and Dependants) (Northern
Ireland) Order 1979 £71.00 £77.00 The requisition Caveats 5.a) For the entry
of a caveat £107.00 £117.00 The filed copy b) For an extension or warning to a
caveat £71.00 £77.00 Deposit of wills 6. On depositing a will for safe custody
in the Probate and Matrimonial Office or any branch office £43.00 £47.00 The
requisition Searches 7.a) For a search for a grant on behalf of the party
applying (whether in person or by letter) £28.00 £31.00 The requisition b)
Additional payment where the search is carried out by an officer of the court
£15.00 £16.00 The requisition Inspection 8. On inspection of office records,
an original will or any other document, including a copy of a will £43.00
£47.00 The requisition Copies of documents 9. On a copy, including a
photographic copy, of all or any part of any document not otherwise provided
for— a) five sheets or less £7.00 £8.00 b) for each sheet thereafter £0.50
£0.50 c) for an exemplification of a copy signed by the Master and
countersigned by the Lord Chief Justice, including the fees for preparing the
necessary documents £107.00 £117.00 The requisition d) for a certified or
sealed copy of any document £15.00 £16.00 10. On an audio recording produced
on compact disc in respect of any court proceedings— For each hour or part
thereof £37.00 £40.00 Oaths and guarantees 11. Save in a personal application
for a grant— a) for administering an oath, for each deponent to each affidavit
£43.00 £47.00 The requisition b) for superintending an attesting execution of
a guarantee for each surety £71.00 £77.00 Production of document, etc. 12. On
an application for the production of records or documents to be given in
evidence— On attendance of an officer to produce records (in addition to the
officer’s expenses), for each hour or part thereof £20.00 per hour £22.00 per
hour Settling documents 13. For perusing and settling citations, for each
document settled £165.00 £180.00 The requisition Applications to the Master
14. On any application to the Master not otherwise provided for £165.00
£180.00 The requisition Miscellaneous 15. On sealing a writ of subpoena per
person £43.00 £47.00 The requisition

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends the Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees Order
(Northern Ireland) 1996 ( S.R. 1996 No. 104 ) to increase the fees to be taken
in non-contentious probate proceedings over a two year period (9% increase
effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from
1st October 2024) and to include a fee for a certified or sealed copy of any
document.

The Supreme Court (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996
has been renamed the Court of Judicature (Non-Contentious Probate) Fees Order
(Northern Ireland) 1996 as a consequence of the renaming of the Supreme Court
of Judicature of Northern Ireland by virtue of section 59 and paragraph 6 of
Schedule 11 to the Constitutional Reform Act 2005.

An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from the Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals
Service, Laganside House, 23-27 Oxford Street, Belfast, BT1 3LA or online
alongside this Statutory Rule at  http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

