Title: The Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-10-03
Description: These Regulations revoke and re-enact the provisions of the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 that otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of section 172(1) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 and Article 251(1A) of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/157

## The Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

  Regulations made by the Department for the Economy and laid before the
Assembly under section 172(1) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 and Article 251(1A) of the Employment
Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 for approval of the Assembly before the
expiration of six months from the date of their coming into operation

    Employment   Parental Bereavement

  Made   28th September 2023

  Coming into operation   29th September 2023

      The Department for the Economy  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 167ZZ9, 167ZZ11, 167ZZ12 and
171(4) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992  and Articles 112EA(1), 112ED(h) and 251(6) of the Employment Rights
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay
(Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) (No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 29th September 2023.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly (but see regulations 28 to
33); and the Interpretation Act 1978  shall not apply.

### Social Security (Credits) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1975


2

Regulation 9C (credits for adoption pay period, shared parental pay period,
additional pay period and maternity pay period) of the Social Security
(Credits) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1975  is amended as follows—

2.a

in the title, after “shared parental pay period,” insert  “parental
bereavement pay period,” ;

2.b

in paragraph (1)(a) after “paragraph (2)(a)” for “or (aa)” substitute  “or
(d)” ;

2.c

at the end of paragraph (2)(c) for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

2.d

after paragraph (2)(c) insert—

2.d.d

the parental bereavement pay period in respect of which statutory parental
bereavement pay is paid to a person.

;

2.e

at the end of paragraph (5)(b) for “.” substitute  “; and” ; and

2.f

after paragraph (5)(b) insert—

2.f.c

“ statutory parental bereavement pay ” means statutory parental bereavement
pay payable in accordance with Part 12ZD of that Act and “ parental
bereavement pay period ” means the weeks in respect of which statutory
parental bereavement pay is payable to a person under section 167ZZ12(2) of
that Act.

.

### Statutory Sick Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1982


3

In the Statutory Sick Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1982 , in
regulation 17 (meaning of “ earnings ”) in paragraph (3)—

3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (k) for “.” substitute  “;” ; and

3.b

after sub-paragraph (k) insert—

3.b.l

any sum payable by way of statutory parental bereavement pay, including any
sums payable in accordance with regulations made under section 167ZZ11(3) of
the Contributions and Benefits Act.

.

### Statutory Maternity Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987


4

4.1

The Statutory Maternity Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987  are
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

4.2

In regulation 11 (continuous employment), in paragraph (1)(e), after “shared
parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

4.3

In regulation 20 (meaning of “ earnings ”), in paragraph (4)—

4.3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (h) for “.” substitute  “;” ; and

4.3.b

after sub-paragraph (h) insert—

4.3.b.i

any sum payable by way of statutory parental bereavement pay, including any
sums payable in accordance with regulations made under section 167ZZ11(3) of
the Contributions and Benefits Act.

.

### Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987


5

5.1

The Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987  are amended
in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (6).

5.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1), in the appropriate place
insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

5.3

In regulation 5 (persons treated as engaged in remunerative work), in
paragraph (3A) for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared parental
leave or parental bereavement leave” .

5.4

In regulation 35 (earnings of employed earners), in paragraph (2)(b) for “or
shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared parental leave or parental
bereavement leave” .

5.5

In Schedule 1B (prescribed categories of person) after paragraph 14B insert—

######### Parental Bereavement Leave


5.5.14C

5.5.14C.1

A person who is entitled to, and is taking, parental bereavement leave by
virtue of Article 112EA of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996
and who satisfies either or both of the conditions set out in sub-paragraph
(2).

5.5.14C.2

The conditions for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) are that the person—

5.5.14C.2.a

is not entitled to statutory parental bereavement pay by virtue of Part 12ZD
of the Contributions and Benefits Act, or to any remuneration from their
employer in respect of that leave for the period to which their claim for
income support relates;

5.5.14C.2.b

is entitled to working tax credit, child tax credit payable at a rate higher
than the family element or housing benefit on the day before that leave
begins.

5.5.14C.3

In this paragraph “ remuneration ” means payment of any kind and “ family
element ” means in a case where any child in respect of whom child tax credit
is payable is under the age of one year, the amount specified in regulation
7(3)(a) of the Child Tax Credit Regulations 2002 or in any other case, the
amount specified in regulation 7(3)(b) of those Regulations but subject in any
case to calculations of those amounts made in accordance with the Tax Credits
(Income Thresholds and Determination of Rates) Regulations 2002.

.

5.6

In Schedule 9 (sums to be disregarded in the calculation of income other than
earnings) in paragraph 4—

5.6.a

after “statutory adoption pay under Part XIIZB of that Act” insert  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay under Part 12ZD of that Act” ; and

5.6.b

for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared parental leave or
parental bereavement leave” .

### Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995


6

6.1

The Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1995  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

6.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in the appropriate place insert—

      “ Parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

6.3

In regulation 65 (absence because of illness or injury or certain types of
leave)—

6.3.a

in paragraph (1) for “or parental leave” substitute  “, parental leave or
parental bereavement leave” ; and

6.3.b

in paragraph (4)(b) for “or parental leave” substitute  “, parental leave or
parental bereavement leave” .

### Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996


7

7.1

The Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

In regulation 1 (citation, commencement, interpretation and application), in
paragraph (2) in the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

7.3

In regulation 15 (circumstances in which a person is not to be regarded as
available), for paragraph (1)(bc) substitute—

7.3.bc

if that person is on ordinary or additional adoption leave, shared parental
leave, paternity leave or parental bereavement leave by virtue of Article
107A, 107B or 112EA of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

7.4

In regulation 52 (persons treated as engaged in remunerative work), in
paragraph (1), after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement
leave” .

7.5

In regulation 98 (earnings of employed earners), in paragraph (2)(c), after
“shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

7.6

In Schedule 6 (sums to be disregarded in the calculation of income other than
earnings) in paragraph 4—

7.6.a

after “statutory shared parental pay by virtue of Part 12ZC of the Benefits
Act,” insert  “statutory parental bereavement pay by virtue of Part 12ZD of
the Benefits Act,” ; and

7.6.b

for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared parental leave or
parental bereavement leave” .

### Social Security (Maternity Allowance) (Earnings) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000


8

8.1

The Social Security (Maternity Allowance) (Earnings) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2000  are amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

8.2

In regulation 2 (specified payments for employed earners), after paragraph
(1)(h) insert—

8.2.i

any sum payable by way of statutory parental bereavement pay, including any
sums payable in accordance with Regulations made under section 167ZZ11(3) of
the Contributions and Benefits Act.

.

### State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003


9

9.1

The State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

9.2

In regulation 1 (interpretation), in paragraph (2), in the appropriate place
insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

9.3

In regulation 15 (income for the purposes of the Act), after paragraph (1)(pb)
insert—

9.3.pc

statutory parental bereavement pay payable under Part 12ZD of the
Contributions and Benefits Act;

.

9.4

In regulation 17A (earnings of employed earners), after paragraph (2)(ib)
insert—

9.4.ic

statutory parental bereavement pay payable under Part 12ZD of the
Contributions and Benefits Act;

.

9.5

In Schedule 2 (housing costs), in paragraph 2(7) after “shared parental leave”
insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

### Working Tax Credit (Entitlement and Maximum Rate) Regulations 2002


10

In the Working Tax Credit (Entitlement and Maximum Rate) Regulations 2002 , in
regulation 5 (time off in connection with childbirth and adoption)—

10.a

in paragraph (1)(k), after “under section 80EA of the Employment Rights Act
1996” insert  “or Article 112EA of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996” ; and

10.b

in paragraph (3C) after “Part 2 of the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay
(General) Regulations 2020” insert  “or Part 2 of the Statutory Parental
Bereavement Pay (General) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023” .

### Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006


11

11.1

The Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (7).

11.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1) in the appropriate place
insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

11.3

In regulation 6 (remunerative work), in paragraph (7), after “shared parental
leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

11.4

In regulation 25 (treatment of child care charges)—

11.4.a

in paragraph (14)(a) after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental
bereavement leave” ;

11.4.b

in paragraph (14)(a)(i) after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental
bereavement leave” ;

11.4.c

in paragraph (14)(a)(iii) after “statutory shared parental pay by virtue of
section 167ZU or 167ZV of the Act” insert  “, statutory parental bereavement
pay by virtue of section 167ZZ9 of the Act” ;

11.4.d

in paragraph (14)(b) after “paternity leave” insert  “, parental bereavement
leave” ;

11.4.e

in paragraph (14)(b)(ii) for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute  “,
statutory shared parental pay or statutory parental bereavement pay” ; and

11.4.f

in paragraph (14)(b)(iii) for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute
“, statutory shared parental pay or statutory parental bereavement pay” .

11.5

In regulation 32 (earnings of employed earners), in paragraph (1)—

11.5.a

in sub-paragraph (i) after “statutory shared parental pay” insert  “,
statutory parental bereavement” ; and

11.5.b

in sub-paragraph (k) for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared
parental leave or parental bereavement leave” .

11.6

In regulation 33 (calculation of net earnings of employed earners), in
paragraph (3)(d) for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute  “,
statutory shared parental pay or statutory parental bereavement pay” .

11.7

In regulation 73E (exception to the benefit cap: current or recent work), in
paragraph (4) for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared parental
leave or parental bereavement leave” .

### Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006


12

12.1

The Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying age for state
pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006  is amended in accordance
with paragraphs (2) to (7).

12.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), in the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

12.3

In regulation 6 (remunerative work), in paragraph (7) for “or shared parental
leave” substitute  “, shared parental leave, parental bereavement leave” .

12.4

In regulation 27 (meaning of “ income ”), after paragraph (1)(h)(xva) insert—

12.4.xvaa

statutory parental bereavement pay payable under Part 12ZD of the Act;

.

12.5

In regulation 29 (treatment of child care charges)—

12.5.a

in paragraph (14) for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared parent
leave or parental bereavement leave” ;

12.5.b

in paragraph (14)(a) for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared
parental leave or parental bereavement leave” ;

12.5.c

in paragraph (14)(c) after “, statutory shared parental pay by virtue of
section 167ZU or 167ZV of the Act” insert  “, statutory parental bereavement
pay by virtue of section 167ZZ9 of the Act” ;

12.5.d

in paragraph (15) after “paternity leave” insert  “, parental bereavement
leave” ;

12.5.e

in paragraph (15)(b) for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute  “,
statutory shared parental pay or statutory parental bereavement pay” ; and

12.5.f

in paragraph (15)(c) for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute  “,
statutory shared parental pay or statutory parental bereavement pay” .

12.6

In regulation 33 (earnings of employed earners), in paragraph (1), after sub-
paragraph (ja) insert—

12.6.jb

statutory parental bereavement pay payable under Part 12ZD of the Act;

.

12.7

In regulation 34 (calculation of net earnings of employed earners), in
paragraph 2(d) for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute  “, statutory
shared parental pay or statutory parental bereavement pay” .

### Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007


13

13.1

The Annex to the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007
is amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

13.2

In the Scheme—

13.2.a

in Part F (pensionable service and transfer values)—

13.2.a.i

in Article 46 (current service), paragraph (3), after “paternity” insert  “,
parental bereavement” ;

13.2.a.ii

in the title of Article 47 (Maternity, paternity and adoption leave) after
“paternity” insert  “, parental bereavement” ; and

13.2.a.iii

in Article 47 (maternity, paternity and adoption leave) after paragraph (2)(a)
insert—

13.2.a.iii.aa

parental bereavement leave;

.

13.2.b

in Part G (pensionable pay and contributions), in Article 56 (pensionable pay
and average pensionable pay)—

13.2.b.i

in paragraph (3) after “paternity” in both places it occurs insert  “,
parental bereavement” ; and

13.2.b.ii

after paragraph (7)(c) insert—

13.2.b.ii.ca

parental bereavement leave;

.

13.2.c

in Part 1 (glossary of expressions) of Schedule 1 (interpretation) in the
appropriate place insert—

      “Parental bereavement leave” leave under Article 112EA of the Employment
Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

.

### New Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007


14

14.1

The Annex to the New Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland)
2007  is amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

14.2

In Part 1 (citation and interpretation) in Article 2(1) (interpretation), in
the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

14.3

In Part 10 (qualifying service and pensionable service)—

14.3.a

in Article 55 (qualifying service), in paragraph(1)(g) after “paternity”
insert  “, parental bereavement” ;

14.3.b

in Article 56 (reckoning of pensionable service), in paragraph (1)(c) after
“paternity” insert  “, parental bereavement” ;

14.3.c

in Article 56A (reckoning of special pensionable service), in paragraph (1)(c)
after “paternity” insert  “, parental bereavement” ; and

14.3.d

in Article 59 (reckoning of maternity, paternity and adoption leave, etc)—

14.3.d.i

in the heading after “paternity” insert  “, parental bereavement” ; and

14.3.d.ii

after paragraph (2)(a) insert—

14.3.d.ii.aa

parental bereavement leave;

;

14.4

In Part 11 (pensionable pay, pension contributions and purchase of additional
service)—

14.4.a

in Article 62 (final pensionable pay), in paragraph (5)(c) after “ordinary
adoption leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” ; and

14.4.b

in Article 63 (pension contributions), in paragraph (3) after “paternity” in
both places it occurs, insert  “, parental bereavement” .

### Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008


15

15.1

The Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2008  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (12).

15.2

In regulation 6 (interpretation: general) in the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

15.3

In regulation 9 (pensionable service: breaks in service)—

15.3.a

in paragraph (1)—

15.3.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

15.3.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) for “.” substitute  “, or” ; and

15.3.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.3.a.iii.f

parental bereavement leave.

;

15.3.b

in paragraph (7)—

15.3.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

15.3.b.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) insert  “or” ; and

15.3.b.iii

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.3.b.iii.f

parental bereavement leave,

.

15.4

In regulation 14 (pensionable pay: breaks in service), in paragraph (1)—

15.4.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

15.4.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) insert  “or” ; and

15.4.c

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.4.c.f

parental bereavement leave,

.

15.5

In regulation 35 (effect of member being absent or leaving and rejoining this
Section of the Scheme during the contribution option period), in paragraph
(1)—

15.5.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) omit “or”;

15.5.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (f) for “.” substitute  “, or” ; and

15.5.c

after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

15.5.c.g

parental bereavement leave.

.

15.6

In regulation 89 (death during period of absence), after paragraph (1)(c)
insert—

15.6.ca

parental bereavement leave,

.

15.7

In regulation 137 (interpretation of Part 3: general), in paragraph (1) in the
appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

15.8

In regulation 140 (pensionable service: breaks in service)—

15.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

15.8.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

15.8.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) for “.” substitute  “, or” ; and

15.8.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.8.a.iii.f

parental bereavement leave.

.

15.8.b

in paragraph (7)—

15.8.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

15.8.b.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) insert  “or” ; and

15.8.b.iii

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.8.b.iii.f

parental bereavement leave,

15.9

In regulation 143 (meaning of “ pensionable earnings ”)—

15.9.a

in paragraph (4)(b), after “parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement
leave” ;

15.9.b

in paragraph (5)(b), after “parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement
leave” .

15.10

In regulation 144 (pensionable earnings — breaks in service), in paragraph
(1)—

15.10.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

15.10.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) for “.” substitute  “, or” ; and

15.10.c

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.10.c.f

parental bereavement leave.

.

15.11

In regulation 166 (effect of member being absent or leaving and rejoining this
Section of the Scheme during the contribution option period), in paragraph
(1)—

15.11.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) omit “or”; and

15.11.b

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

15.11.b.ea

parental bereavement leave, or

.

15.12

In regulation 216 (death during period of absence), after paragraph (1)(c)
insert—

15.12.ca

parental bereavement leave,

.

### Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008


16

16.1

The Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008  are
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (6).

16.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph 1, in the appropriate place
insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights Order;

.

16.3

In regulation 43 (circumstances under which partners of claimants entitled to
an income-related allowance are not to be treated as engaged in remunerative
work), in paragraph (3), after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental
bereavement leave” .

16.4

In regulation 95 (earnings of employed earners), in paragraph (2)(b), after
“shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

16.5

In Schedule 6 (housing costs) in paragraph 2(5) after “shared parental leave”
insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

16.6

In Schedule 8 (sums to be disregarded in the calculation of income other than
earnings)—

16.6.a

in paragraph 4—

16.6.a.i

after “12ZB” insert  “or Part 12ZD” ; and

16.6.a.ii

after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” ;

16.6.b

in paragraph 5—

16.6.b.i

after “12ZB” insert  “or Part 12ZD” ; and

16.6.b.ii

after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

### Investment Bank Special Administration Regulations 2011


17

17.1

The Investment Bank Special Administration Regulations 2011  are amended in
accordance with paragraph (2).

17.2

In Schedule 6 (modifications and consequential amendments) in Part 1, in the
list of secondary legislation after “Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay
(General) Regulations 2020” insert  “Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay
(General) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023” .

### Agency Workers Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2011


18

18.1

The Agency Workers Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2011  are amended in
accordance with paragraph (2).

18.2

In regulation 6 (relevant terms and conditions), in paragraph (3)(c) after
“paternity” insert  “, parental bereavement” .

### Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014


19

19.1

The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  are
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

19.2

In regulation 17 (employing authority contributions during absences), in
paragraph (4)(b)—

19.2.a

for “or” substitute  “,” ; and

19.2.b

after “shared parental leave” insert  “or parental bereavement leave” .

19.3

In regulation 18 (additional pension contributions), in paragraph (17)(a)—

19.3.a

for “or” substitute  “,” ; and

19.3.b

after “shared parental leave” insert  “or parental bereavement leave” .

19.4

In Schedule 1(interpretation)—

19.4.a

in the definition of “child-related leave” in paragraph (d) omit “or”;

19.4.b

in paragraph (f) after “;” insert  “or” ;

19.4.c

after paragraph (f) insert—

19.4.c.g

parental bereavement leave during which the member receives some pensionable
pay;

;

19.4.d

in the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

; and

19.4.e

in the definition of “statutory pay” after “shared parental” insert  “,
parental bereavement” .

### Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment and Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014


20

20.1

The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment and Transitional Provisions)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  are amended in accordance with paragraph
(2).

20.2

In Schedule 1 (interpretation)—

20.2.a

in the definition of “child-related leave” in paragraph (d) omit “or”;

20.2.b

in paragraph (e) after “;” insert  “or” ;

20.2.c

after paragraph (e) insert—

20.2.c.f

parental bereavement leave during which the member receives some pensionable
pay;

; and

20.2.d

in the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

### Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015


21

21.1

The Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  are
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

21.2

In regulation 3 (interpretation)—

21.2.a

in the definition of “child-related leave”—

21.2.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (f) omit “or”;

21.2.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (g) after “leave;” insert  “or” ; and

21.2.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (g) insert —

21.2.a.iii.h

parental bereavement leave;

;

21.2.b

in the appropriate place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under the Parental
Bereavement Leave (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023;

;

21.2.c

in the definition of “statutory pay”—

21.2.c.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (c) omit “or”;

21.2.c.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) for “;” substitute  “, or” ; and

21.2.c.iii

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

21.2.c.iii.f

statutory parental bereavement pay within the meaning of section 167ZZ9
(entitlement) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992;

.

21.3

In regulation 27 (meaning of “ assumed pensionable pay ”)—

21.3.a

in paragraph (2)(c) after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental
bereavement leave” ; and

21.3.b

in paragraph (2)(e) for “or shared parental leave” substitute  “, shared
parental leave or parental bereavement leave” .

21.4

In regulation 121 (contributions during child-related leave), in paragraph (3)
after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

### Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015


22

22.1

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (6).

22.2

In regulation 21 (absence from work), in paragraph (1)—

22.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

22.2.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) for “.” substitute  “, or” ; and

22.2.c

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

22.2.c.f

parental bereavement leave.

.

22.3

In regulation 28 (pensionable earnings: break in service), in paragraph (2)—

22.3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or”;

22.3.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (e) for “.” substitute  “, or” ; and

22.3.c

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

22.3.c.f

parental bereavement leave.

.

22.4

In regulation 67 (effect of being absent or leaving and rejoining scheme
during contributions payment period), after paragraph (1)(d) insert—

22.4.da

is on parental bereavement leave;

.

22.5

In Schedule 8 (practitioner income), in paragraph 3—

22.5.a

in sub-paragraph (3)(b), after “parental leave” insert  “, parental
bereavement leave” ; and

22.5.b

in sub-paragraph (4)(b), after “parental leave” insert  “, parental
bereavement leave” .

22.6

In Schedule 13 (definitions), in the appropriate place in Column 1, insert
“parental bereavement leave” , and for the corresponding entry in Column 2
insert  “means leave under Article 112EA of the Employment Rights (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996” .

### Childcare Payments (Eligibility) Regulations 2015


23

23.1

The Childcare Payments (Eligibility) Regulations 2015  are amended in
accordance with paragraph (2).

23.2

In regulation 12 (qualifying paid work: time off in connection with sickness
or parenting), in paragraph (1)—

23.2.a

in sub-paragraph (n)—

23.2.a.i

omit “in relation to England, Wales and Scotland only,”; and

23.2.a.ii

after “section 80EA of the Employment Rights Act 1996” insert”  “or Article
112EA of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996” .

23.2.b

in sub-paragraph (o)—

23.2.b.i

omit “in relation to England, Wales and Scotland only,”; and

23.2.b.ii

after “Part 12ZD of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992”
insert”  “or Part 12ZD of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992” .

### Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016


24

24.1

The Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

24.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph 1, in the appropriate place
insert—

      “ statutory parental bereavement pay ” means statutory parental
bereavement pay payable in accordance with Part 12ZD of the Contributions and
Benefits Act;

.

24.3

In regulation 33 (the work condition), in paragraph (2)(b) after “statutory
shared parental pay” insert  “, statutory parental bereavement pay” .

24.4

In regulation 55 (employed earnings), in paragraph (4)—

24.4.a

in sub-paragraph (d) omit “and”;

24.4.b

in sub-paragraph (e) for “.” substitute  “; and” ; and

24.4.c

after sub-paragraph (e), insert —

24.4.c.f

statutory parental bereavement pay.

.

### Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016


25

25.1

The Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

25.2

In regulation 2 (general interpretation), in paragraph (2), in the appropriate
place insert—

      “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under Article 112EA of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

.

25.3

In regulation 42 (persons treated as engaged in remunerative work), in
paragraph (1) after “shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement
leave” .

25.4

In regulation 58 (earnings of employed earners), in paragraph (2)(c), after
“shared parental leave” insert  “, parental bereavement leave” .

### Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016


26

26.1

The Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  are
amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

26.2

In regulation 80 (earnings of employed earners) in paragraph (2)(b) after
“107E or 107G of that Order” insert  “, parental bereavement leave under
Article 112EA of that Order” .

### Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016


27

27.1

The Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement)
Regulations 2016  are amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

27.2

In regulation 8 (qualifying paid work and work outside role as a foster
parent: time off in connection with sickness or parenting), in paragraph (1)—

27.2.a

in sub-paragraph (n) after “section 80EA of the Employment Rights Act 1996”
insert  “or Article 112EA of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order
1996” ; and

27.2.b

in sub-paragraph (o) after “Part 12ZD of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992” insert”  “or Part 12ZD of the Social Security Contributions
and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992” .

### Transitional provisions


28

The revocation and re-enactment of provisions by these Regulations does not
affect the continuity of the law.

29

29.1

This regulation applies to a reference (expressed or implied) in these
Regulations, any statutory provision, or any other instrument or document, to
a provision of these Regulations.

29.2

The reference is, subject to its context, to be read as being or including a
reference to any or all of the corresponding provisions, in relation to times,
circumstances or purposes in relation to which those earlier provisions had
effect.

29.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), the corresponding provisions are—

29.3.a

the corresponding provision revoked by these Regulations;

29.3.b

the corresponding provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay
(Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 ;

29.3.c

the corresponding provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay
(Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) (No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2022 .

30

30.1

This regulation applies to a reference (expressed or implied) in any statutory
provision, or any other instrument or document to—

30.1.a

a provision revoked by these Regulations;

30.1.b

a provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential
Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023; or

30.1.c

a provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential
Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2022.

30.2

The reference is, subject to its context, to be read as being or including a
reference to the corresponding provision of these Regulations, in relation to
times, circumstances or purposes in relation to which that provision has
effect.

31

31.1

The revocation of any provision by these Regulations does not affect the
previous operation of that provision, except as provided by regulation 32.

31.2

The revocation by these Regulations of the savings made by regulations 31 and
32 of the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to
Subordinate Legislation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 does not affect
the operation of those savings in so far as they are not specifically
reproduced in these Regulations but remain capable of having effect.

32

32.1

Anything done, or having effect as if done, under (or for the purposes of or
in reliance on) a provision revoked by these Regulations and in operation or
effective immediately before the time these Regulations come into operation,
has effect after that time as if done instead under (or for the purposes of or
in reliance on) the corresponding provision of these Regulations.

32.2

Any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred
under a provision revoked by these Regulations is to be treated as having
acquired, accrued or incurred instead under the corresponding provision of
these Regulations.

32.3

Any reference in paragraph (1) or (2) to—

32.3.a

a thing done, or having effect as if done, under (or for the purposes of or in
reliance on) a provision revoked by these Regulations, or

32.3.b

a right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred
under a provision revoked by these Regulations,

includes a reference to a thing that has effect as if done under that
provision, or is treated as having been acquired, accrued or incurred under
that provision, by virtue of regulation 32 of the Parental Bereavement Leave
and Pay (Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023.

32.4

The revocation of any provision by these Regulations does not affect-

32.4.a

any offence committed against that provision, or any penalty or punishment
incurred in respect thereof, or

32.4.b

any investigation or legal proceeding in respect of any such penalty or
punishment;

and any investigation or legal proceeding in respect of any such penalty or
punishment may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty or
punishment may be imposed, as if the provision had not been revoked.

33

33.1

Regulations 28 to 32 have effect in place of sections 28(2) and 29 of the
Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  (“ 1954 Act ”).

33.2

Nothing in those regulations affects any other provision of the 1954 Act.

33.3

In regulations 29 and 30, “instrument” and “statutory provision” have the
meaning given to them by section 1(c) and (f) of the 1954 Act.

### Revocation


34

The Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to
Subordinate Legislation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 are revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 28th
September 2023.       (L.S.)   Colin Jack   A senior officer of the Department
for the Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations revoke and re-enact the provisions of the Parental
Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to Subordinate
Legislation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 that otherwise cease to have
effect by virtue of section 172(1) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 and Article 251(1A) of the Employment
Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

  These Regulations make amendments to secondary legislation in consequence of
Regulations made under the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 and
Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, which
make provision for entitlements to bereavement leave and pay for parents
following the death of a child. The Regulations also make transitional
provisions.

  A separate impact assessment has not been prepared for these Regulations.
The Regulations are part of a package of legislative measures and the relevant
impact assessment is the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Bill impact
assessment which was published in April 2020. ( https://www.economy-
ni.gov.uk/sites/default/files/consultations/economy/equality-impact-
assessment-parental-bereavement-leave-and-pay.pdf ).

