Title: The Social Security Revaluation of Earnings Factors Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-05-25
Description: This Order corresponds to an Order (S.I. 2023/266) made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under section 148 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992. It directs that the earnings factors relevant to the calculation of additional pension in any long-term benefit (in practice, now relevant only to the calculation of inherited additional pension), or of any guaranteed minimum pension, or to any other calculation required under Part III of the Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993 are to be increased for the tax years specified in the Schedule to this Order by the percentage of their amount specified in that Schedule. This is to ensure that earnings factors for those years are revalued at 2022-2023 earnings levels.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/35

## The Social Security Revaluation of Earnings Factors Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   14th March 2023

  Coming into operation   6th April 2023

      This Order is made in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 130
and 165(4) and (5) of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992 , and now vested in the Department for Communities .       The
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions has made an Order  under section 148
of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 .           Accordingly the
Department for Communities makes the following Order.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Social Security Revaluation of Earnings Factors
Order (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 6th April 2023.

### Revaluation of earnings factors

2

Earnings factors  for the tax years specified in the Schedule to this Order in
so far as they are relevant—

2.a

to the calculation of—

2.a.i

the additional pension in the rate of any long-term benefit, or

2.a.ii

any guaranteed minimum pension , or

2.b

to any other calculation required under Part III of the Pension Schemes
(Northern Ireland) Act 1993  (including that Part as modified by or under any
other enactment),

are directed to be increased by the percentage of their amount shown opposite
those tax years in that Schedule.

### Rounding of fractional amounts

3

Where any earnings factor relevant to the calculation specified in Article
2(a)(i), as increased in accordance with this Order, would not but for this
Article be expressed as a whole number of pounds, it shall be so expressed by
rounding down any fraction of a pound less than one half and rounding up any
other fraction of a pound.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 14th
March 2023       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

  Percentage increase of earnings factors for specified tax years

Article 2

      Tax Year Percentage   1978-1979 1029.5 1979-1980 897.0 1980-1981 732.9
1981-1982 597.6 1982-1983 533.6 1983-1984 488.3 1984-1985 444.7 1985-1986
411.0 1986-1987 369.2 1987-1988 336.9 1988-1989 301.9 1989-1990 262.7
1990-1991 238.1 1991-1992 207.0 1992-1993 188.3 1993-1994 174.6 1994-1995
166.3 1995-1996 155.1 1996-1997 148.1 1997-1998 136.3 1998-1999 125.9
1999-2000 116.8 2000-2001 104.0 2001-2002 96.1 2002-2003 88.0 2003-2004 81.5
2004-2005 74.9 2005-2006 68.0 2006-2007 62.5 2007-2008 56.1 2008-2009 49.8
2009-2010 45.3 2010-2011 43.5 2011-2012 40.3 2012-2013 37.8 2013-2014 35.4
2014-2015 34.2 2015-2016 32.2 2016-2017 29.6 2017-2018 26.3 2018-2019 22.7
2019-2020 19.3 2020-2021 14.7 2021-2022 11.8 2022-2023 7.0

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order corresponds to an Order ( S.I. 2023/266 ) made by the Secretary
of State for Work and Pensions under section 148 of the Social Security
Administration Act 1992. It directs that the earnings factors relevant to the
calculation of additional pension in any long-term benefit (in practice, now
relevant only to the calculation of inherited additional pension), or of any
guaranteed minimum pension, or to any other calculation required under Part
III of the Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993 are to be increased for
the tax years specified in the Schedule to this Order by the percentage of
their amount specified in that Schedule. This is to ensure that earnings
factors for those years are revalued at 2022-2023 earnings levels.

  The percentages specified in this Order, for the tax years from and
including 2000-2001 are also relevant for the purpose of revaluing state
scheme pension debits and credits in accordance with sections 13 and 14 of,
and paragraphs 2(6) of Schedule 8 and 2(6) of Schedule 10 to, the Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland)  2015 (c. 5 (N.I.)) . The percentage specified for
2015-2016 is used to increase flat rate accrual amounts of additional pension
in accordance with paragraphs 4(2), 8(4) and 9(4) of Schedule 4B to the Social
Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 (“ the 1992
Act ”).

  This Order also provides for the rounding of fractional amounts for earnings
factors relevant to the calculation of the additional pension in the rate of
any long-term benefit. Rounding for the purpose of the calculation of any
guaranteed minimum pension is not required by virtue of section 23(2) of the
1992 Act.

