Title: The Local Government and Greater London Authority Elections (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-04-30
Description: These Regulations make provision in relation to a number of provisions of the Elections Act 2022 (c. 37) (“the Act”). The provisions implemented by these Regulations are proxy voting restrictions (section 6 and Schedule 4), candidates’ commonly used names (section 10), EU citizens’ candidacy rights (section 15) and disqualification orders (Part 5 of the Act).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1066

## The Local Government and Greater London Authority Elections (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023

    LONDON GOVERNMENT       REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE, ENGLAND

  Made   5th October 2023

  Laid before Parliament   9th October 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2) to (4)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by paragraph 18 of Schedule 12 to the Local Government Act 1972 ,
section 36(1), (2) and (2A) of the Representation of the People Act 1983  and
section 9HB(d) of the Local Government Act 2000 .           The Secretary of
State has consulted with the Electoral Commission in accordance with section
7(1) and (2)(d) of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 .

### Citation, commencement, extent, transitional and savings provisions


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Local Government and Greater London
Authority Elections (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023.

1.2

The following provisions come into force on 31st October 2023—

1.2.a

this regulation;

1.2.b

regulation 3(1), (2), (7), (10), (15) and (17);

1.2.c

regulation 4(1), (2), (7), (10) and (15);

1.2.d

in Schedule 1, paragraphs 1, 6, 7(2), 8(2) and (3), 9, 10(2), 11(2) and (3),
12, 13(2) and (3) and 14(2).

1.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the remainder of these Regulations come into force
on 1st November 2023.

1.4

The following provisions come into force on 31st January 2024—

1.4.a

regulation 3(8), (9)(c) and (d), (16) and (18)(c) and (d);

1.4.b

regulation 4(8), (9)(c) and (d), (16) and (17)(c) and (d);

1.4.c

regulation 5(7), (13), (19), (25), (31), (37) and (38)(e) and (f);

1.4.d

in Schedule 1, paragraphs 7(1), 8(1), 10(1), 11(1), 13(1) and 14(1).

1.5

An amendment made by these Regulations has the same extent as the provision
amended.

1.6

Schedule 1 (transitional and savings provisions) has effect.

### Amendment of the Parish and Community Meetings (Polls) Rules 1987


2

2.1

Rule 6 (application of provisions in the Act of 1983) of the Parish and
Community Meetings (Polls) Rules 1987  is amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph (a), after “114,” insert  “114A ,” .

2.3

After paragraph (e), insert—

2.3.ea

in respect of the election of the chairman of a parish meeting or a poll
consequent on a parish meeting—

2.3.ea.i

section 114A applies as if, in subsection (2)(b), “or of a proxy for an
elector” were omitted;

2.3.ea.ii

section 115 does not apply;

2.3.eb

in respect of a poll consequent on a community meeting, section 114A does not
apply;

.

### Amendment of the Local Elections (Principal Areas) (England and Wales) Rules 2006


3

3.1

The Local Elections (Principal Areas) (England and Wales) Rules 2006  are
amended as follows.

3.2

Schedule 2 (rules for conduct of an election of councillors of a principal
area where poll is not taken together with poll at another election) is
amended in accordance with paragraphs (3) to (9).

3.3

In rule 4 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

3.3.3

If a candidate—

3.3.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

3.3.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

3.3.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

3.4

In rule 7 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (b)(i), for “and section 34 of
the Localism Act 2011 ” substitute  “, section 34 of the Localism Act 2011 and
section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 ” .

3.5

In rule 8 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

3.5.a

omit the “and” after sub-paragraph (a);

3.5.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

3.5.b.c

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

3.6

In rule 9 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

3.6.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 4(3)” ;

3.6.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

3.7

In rule 24 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3)(c) for “mentions” substitute  “mentioned” .

3.8

In rule 33 (questions to be put to voters)—

3.8.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

3.8.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

3.8.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

3.8.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

3.8.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

3.8.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

3.8.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

3.8.b.ii

omit entry 4;

3.8.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

3.9

In Part 7 (appendix of forms), for—

3.9.a

the form of nomination paper;

3.9.b

the form of candidate’s consent to nomination;

3.9.c

the form of official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person);
and

3.9.d

the form of official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting
in person),

substitute the corresponding form set out in Part 1 of Schedule 3 to these
Regulations.

3.10

Schedule 3 (rules for conduct of an election of councillors of a principal
area where the poll is taken together with the poll at a relevant election or
referendum) is amended in accordance with paragraphs (11) to (18).

3.11

In rule 4 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

3.11.3

If a candidate—

3.11.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

3.11.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

3.11.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

3.12

In rule 7 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (b)(i), for “and section 34 of
the Localism Act 2011” substitute  “, section 34 of the Localism Act 2011 and
section 30 of the Elections Act 2022” .

3.13

In rule 8 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

3.13.a

omit the “and” after sub-paragraph (aa);

3.13.b

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

3.13.b.c

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

3.14

In rule 9 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

3.14.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 4(3)” ;

3.14.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

3.15

In rule 24 (appointment of presiding officers and clerks), in paragraph (3)(c)
for “mentions” substitute  “mentioned” .

3.16

In rule 33 (questions to be put to voters)—

3.16.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

3.16.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

3.16.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

3.16.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

3.16.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

3.16.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

3.16.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

3.16.b.ii

omit entry 4;

3.16.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

3.17

In rule 37 (voting by persons with disabilities), in paragraph (3) for “voter”
in the third place it occurs, substitute  “vote” .

3.18

In Part 7 (appendix of forms), for—

3.18.a

the form of nomination paper;

3.18.b

the form of candidate’s consent to nomination;

3.18.c

the form of official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person);
and

3.18.d

the form of official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting
in person),

substitute the corresponding form set out in Part 2 of Schedule 3 to these
Regulations.

### Amendment of the Local Elections (Parishes and Communities) (England and Wales) Rules 2006


4

4.1

The Local Elections (Parishes and Communities) (England and Wales) Rules 2006
are amended as follows.

4.2

Schedule 2 (rules for conduct of an election of councillors of a parish where
poll is not taken together with poll at another election) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (3) to (9).

4.3

In rule 4 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

4.3.3

If a candidate—

4.3.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

4.3.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

4.3.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

4.4

In rule 7 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (b)(i), for “and section 34 of
the Localism Act 2011” substitute  “, section 34 of the Localism Act 2011 and
section 30 of the Elections Act 2022” .

4.5

In rule 8 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

4.5.a

omit the “and” after sub-paragraph (aa);

4.5.b

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

4.5.b.c

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

4.6

In rule 9 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

4.6.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 4(3)” ;

4.6.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

4.7

In rule 24 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3)(c) for “mentions” substitute  “mentioned” .

4.8

In rule 33 (questions to be put to voters)—

4.8.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

4.8.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

4.8.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

4.8.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

4.8.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

4.8.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

4.8.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

4.8.b.ii

omit entry 4;

4.8.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

4.9

In Part 7 (appendix of forms), for—

4.9.a

the form of nomination paper;

4.9.b

the form of candidate’s consent to nomination;

4.9.c

the form of official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person);
and

4.9.d

the form of official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting
in person),

substitute the corresponding forms set out in Part 1 of Schedule 4 to these
Regulations.

4.10

Schedule 3 (rules for conduct of an election of councillors of a parish where
the poll is taken together with the poll at a relevant election or referendum)
is amended in accordance with paragraphs (11) to (17).

4.11

In rule 4 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

4.11.3

If a candidate—

4.11.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

4.11.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

4.11.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

4.12

In rule 7 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (b)(i), for “and section 34 of
the Localism Act 2011” substitute  “, section 34 of the Localism Act 2011 and
section 30 of the Elections Act 2022” .

4.13

In rule 8 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

4.13.a

omit the “and” after sub-paragraph (aa);

4.13.b

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

4.13.b.c

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

4.14

In rule 9 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

4.14.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 4(3)” ;

4.14.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

4.15

In rule 24 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3)(c) for “mentions” substitute  “mentioned” .

4.16

In rule 33 (questions to be put to voters)—

4.16.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

4.16.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

4.16.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

4.16.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

4.16.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

4.16.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

4.16.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

4.16.b.ii

omit entry 4;

4.16.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

4.17

In Part 7 (appendix of forms), for—

4.17.a

the form of nomination paper;

4.17.b

the form of candidate’s consent to nomination;

4.17.c

the form of official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person);
and

4.17.d

the form of official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting
in person),

substitute the corresponding form set out in Part 2 of Schedule 4 to these
Regulations.

### Amendment of the Greater London Authority Elections Rules 2007


5

5.1

The Greater London Authority Elections Rules 2007  are amended as follows.

5.2

Schedule 1 (the constituency members election rules) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs (3) to (7).

5.3

In rule 6 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

5.3.3

If a candidate—

5.3.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

5.3.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

5.3.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

5.4

In rule 7 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (2)(b)(iii), after
“(offences)” insert  “or section 30 of the Elections Act 2022
(disqualification orders)” .

5.5

In rule 9 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

5.5.a

omit the “or” after sub-paragraph (a);

5.5.b

after sub-paragraph (b) insert  “or” ;

5.5.c

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

5.5.c.c

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

5.6

In rule 10 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

5.6.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 6(3)” ;

5.6.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

5.7

In rule 36 (questions to be put to voters)—

5.7.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

5.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

5.7.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

5.7.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

5.7.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

5.7.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

5.7.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

5.7.b.ii

omit entry 4;

5.7.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

5.8

Schedule 2 (the London members election rules) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (9) to (13).

5.9

In rule 8 (nomination papers: general provisions) for paragraph (2)
substitute—

5.9.2

If an individual candidate or a candidate included on a party list—

5.9.2.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

5.9.2.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

5.9.2.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with rule
6(2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with rule 6(2)(a).

.

5.10

In rule 9 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (2)(c)(iii), after
“(offences)” insert  “or section 30 of the Elections Act 2022
(disqualification orders)” .

5.11

In rule 11 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (4),
after “by law”, insert  “or that an order under section 30 of the Elections
Act 2022 (disqualification orders) has effect in relation to the candidate” .

5.12

In rule 12 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (2)—

5.12.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 8(2)” ;

5.12.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

5.13

In rule 37 (questions to be put to voters)—

5.13.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

5.13.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

5.13.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

5.13.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

5.13.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

5.13.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

5.13.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

5.13.b.ii

omit entry 4;

5.13.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

5.14

Schedule 3 (the mayoral election rules) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (15) to (19).

5.15

In rule 6 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

5.15.3

If a candidate—

5.15.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

5.15.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

5.15.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

5.16

In rule 8 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (2)(b)(iii), after
“(offences)” insert  “or section 30 of the Elections Act 2022
(disqualification orders)” .

5.17

In rule 10 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2),
after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

5.17.d

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

5.18

In rule 11 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

5.18.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 6(3)” ;

5.18.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

5.19

In rule 36 (questions to be put to voters)—

5.19.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

5.19.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

5.19.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

5.19.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

5.19.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

5.19.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

5.19.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

5.19.b.ii

omit entry 4;

5.19.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

5.20

Schedule 5 (the constituency members election rules) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs (21) to (25).

5.21

In rule 6 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

5.21.3

If a candidate—

5.21.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

5.21.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

5.21.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

5.22

In rule 7 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (2)(b)(iii), after
“(offences)” insert  “or section 30 of the Elections Act 2022
(disqualification orders)” .

5.23

In rule 9 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

5.23.a

omit the “or” after sub-paragraph (a);

5.23.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) insert  “or” ;

5.23.c

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

5.23.c.c

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

5.24

In rule 10 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

5.24.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 6(3)” ;

5.24.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

5.25

In rule 36 (questions to be put to voters)—

5.25.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

5.25.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

5.25.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

5.25.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

5.25.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

5.25.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

5.25.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

5.25.b.ii

omit entry 4;

5.25.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

5.26

Schedule 6 (the London members election rules) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (27) to (31).

5.27

In rule 8 (nomination papers: general provisions), for paragraph (2)
substitute—

5.27.2

If an individual candidate or candidate included on a party list—

5.27.2.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

5.27.2.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

5.27.2.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with rule
6(2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with rule 6(2)(a).

.

5.28

In rule 9 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (2)(c)(iii), after
“(offences)” insert  “or section 30 of the Elections Act 2022
(disqualification orders)” .

5.29

In rule 11 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (4),
after “by law” insert  “or that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act
2022 (disqualification orders) has effect in relation to the candidate” .

5.30

In rule 12 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (2)—

5.30.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 8(2)” ;

5.30.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

5.31

In rule 37 (questions to be put to voters)—

5.31.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

5.31.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

5.31.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

5.31.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

5.31.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

5.31.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

5.31.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

5.31.b.ii

omit entry 4;

5.31.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

5.32

Schedule 7 (the mayoral election rules) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (33) to (37).

5.33

In rule 6 (nomination of candidates), for paragraph (3) substitute—

5.33.3

If a candidate—

5.33.3.a

commonly uses a surname that is different from any other surname the candidate
has,

5.33.3.b

commonly uses a forename that is different from any other forename the
candidate has, or

5.33.3.c

otherwise commonly uses one or more forenames or a surname in a different way
from the way in which the candidate’s names are stated in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a),

the nomination paper may state the commonly used name or names in addition to
the names as stated in accordance with paragraph (2)(a).

.

5.34

In rule 8 (consent to nomination), in paragraph (2)(b)(iii), after
“(offences)” insert  “or section 30 of the Elections Act 2022
(disqualification orders)” .

5.35

In rule 10 (decisions as to validity of nomination papers), in paragraph (2)—

5.35.a

omit the “and” after sub-paragraph (b);

5.35.b

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

5.35.b.d

that an order under section 30 of the Elections Act 2022 (disqualification
orders) has effect in relation to the candidate.

.

5.36

In rule 11 (publication of statement of persons nominated), in paragraph (3)—

5.36.a

for “in addition to another name” substitute  “in accordance with rule 6(3)” ;

5.36.b

for “any other name” substitute  “the other surname or forename” .

5.37

In rule 36 (questions to be put to voters)—

5.37.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

5.37.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

5.37.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

5.37.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

5.37.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

5.37.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

5.37.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

5.37.b.ii

omit entry 4;

5.37.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

5.38

In Schedule 10 (Schedule of forms) for—

5.38.a

Form 1 (Nomination paper (constituency and individual London member
candidates));

5.38.b

Form 2 (Nomination paper (London member party list candidates));

5.38.c

Form 3 (Nomination paper (Mayor of London candidates));

5.38.d

Form 4 (candidate’s consent to nomination);

5.38.e

Form 12 (official poll card); and

5.38.f

Form 14 (official proxy poll card),

substitute the corresponding form set out in Schedule 5 to these Regulations.

### Amendment of the Local Authorities (Elected Mayors) (Elections, Terms of Office and Casual Vacancies) (England) Regulations 2012


6

In regulation 10 of the Local Authorities (Elected Mayors) (Elections, Terms
of Office and Casual Vacancies) (England) Regulations 2012 (filling of casual
vacancies: supplementary) , in paragraph (1), after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

6.ca

in the case of disqualification by virtue of an order under section 30 of the
Elections Act 2022 (disqualification orders), on the date the office is
vacated in accordance with section 31 of that Act (vacation of office etc);

.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Lee Rowley   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     5th October 2023

  Transitional and savings provisions

Regulation 1(6)

##### Interpretation and general savings


###### Interpretation


1

In this Schedule—

      “ GLA Rules ” means the Greater London Authority Elections Rules 2007;
“ Parish Rules ” means the Local Elections (Parishes and Communities) (England
and Wales) Rules 2006;           “ Principal Areas Rules ” means the Local
Elections (Principal Areas) (England and Wales) Rules 2006;           “
relevant rule ” means (as the case may be)—         rule 3 of Schedule 2 or
rule 3 of Schedule 3 to the Principal Areas Rules;           rule 3 of
Schedule 2 or rule 3 of Schedule 3 to the Parish Rules;           rule 5 of
Schedule 1, rule 5 of Schedule 2, rule 5 of Schedule 3, rule 5 of Schedule 5,
rule 5 of Schedule 6 or rule 5 of Schedule 7 to the GLA Rules.

###### Savings for elections for which the notice of election was published on or before 31st October 2023


2

The amendments made by regulations 3(5) and (13), 4(5) and (13) and 5(5),
(11), (17), (23), (29) and (35) do not apply in relation to an election in
respect of which the notice of election was published in accordance with the
relevant rule on or before 31st October 2023.

###### Savings for elections for which the date of poll is on or before 1st May 2024


3

The amendments made by the following provisions do not apply in relation to an
election in respect of which the date of the poll as specified in the notice
of election published in accordance with the relevant rule is on or before 1st
May 2024—

3.a

regulation 3(3), (4), (6), (9)(a), (11), (12), (14) and (18)(a);

3.b

regulation 4(3), (4), (6), (9)(a), (11), (12), (14) and (17)(a);

3.c

regulation 5(3), (4), (6), (9), (10), (12), (15), (16), (18), (21), (22),
(24), (27), (28), (30), (33), (34), (36) and (38)(a) to (c).

###### Savings for elections for which the date of poll is on or before 6th May 2024


4

The amendments made by regulations 3(9)(b) and (18)(b), 4(9)(b) and (17)(b)
and 5(38)(d) do not apply in relation to an election in respect of which the
date of the poll as specified in the notice of election published in
accordance with the relevant rule is on or before 6th May 2024.

###### Modification of forms used for an election in the period beginning with 2nd May 2024 and ending with 6th May 2024


5

5.1

This regulation applies to an election in respect of which the date of the
poll as specified in the notice of election published in accordance with the
relevant rule is 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th or 6th May 2024.

5.2

The reference to “the appropriate form” in—

5.2.a

rule 7(b) of Schedule 2 to the Principal Areas Rules is to be taken as a
reference to the form in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations;

5.2.b

rule 7(b) of Schedule 3 to the Principal Areas Rules is to be taken as a
reference to the form in Part 2 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations;

5.2.c

rule 7(b) of Schedule 2 to the Parish Rules is to be taken as a reference to
the form in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations;

5.2.d

rule 7(b) of Schedule 3 to the Parish Rules is to be taken as a reference to
the form in Part 4 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations;

5.2.e

rule 7(1)(a) of Schedule 1, rule 9(1)(a) of Schedule 2, rule 8(1)(a) of
Schedule 3, rule 7(1)(a) of Schedule 5, rule 9(1)(a) of Schedule 6 and rule
8(1)(a) of Schedule 7 to the GLA Rules is to be taken as a reference to the
form in Part 5 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations.

##### Principal area councillor elections


###### Interpretation of Part 2


6

In this Part—

      “ election conduct rules ” means the rules set out in Schedules 2 and 3
to the Principal Areas Rules (as the case may be);           “ ongoing
principal area councillor election ” means a relevant principal area
councillor election for which the date of poll as specified in the notice of
election is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ relevant principal area
councillor election ” means an election of councillors of a principal area for
which the notice of election is published in accordance with the relevant rule
on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain principal area councillor elections


7

7.1

The amendments made by regulation 3(8) and (16) do not apply in respect of an
ongoing principal area councillor election.

7.2

Rule 33 of the election conduct rules applies in respect of a relevant
principal area councillor election as if—

7.2.a

in the table after paragraph (1)—

7.2.a.i

in entry 2 (proxy), in the column headed “Question”—

7.2.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

7.2.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of C.D. before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

7.2.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

7.2.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for an elector with an anonymous entry), in the column
headed “Question”—

7.2.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

7.2.a.ii.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is (read out the number) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

7.2.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

7.2.b

in paragraph (2), after “3(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Poll card forms for certain principal area councillor elections


8

8.1

The amendments made by regulation 3(9)(c) and (d) and (18)(c) and (d) do not
apply in respect of an ongoing principal area councillor election.

8.2

The form of the official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person)
and the form of the official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting in person) in the election conduct rules apply in respect of a relevant
principal area councillor election as if, on the front of the form, before the
text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in
the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

8.3

The form of the official postal poll card (to be sent to an elector voting by
post) and the form of the official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) in the election conduct rules apply in respect
of a relevant principal area councillor election as if on the back of the
form, before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there
were inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

8.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies to an election of councillors of a principal area
for which—

8.4.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with the relevant rule on or
after 31st January 2024, and

8.4.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

8.5

The form of the official postal poll card (to be sent to an elector voting by
post) and the form of the official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) in the election conduct rules apply in respect
of an election to which this sub-paragraph applies as if, on the back of the
form, for the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” and ends
with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

.

##### Parish councillor elections


###### Interpretation of Part 3


9

In this Part—

      “ election conduct rules ” means the rules set out in Schedules 2 and 3
to the Parish Rules (as the case may be);           “ ongoing parish
councillor election ” means a relevant parish councillor election where the
date of poll as specified in the notice of election is on or after 31st
January 2024;           “ relevant parish councillor election ” means an
election of councillors of a parish where the notice of election published in
accordance with the relevant rule is published on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain parish councillor elections


10

10.1

The amendments made by regulation 4(8) and (16) do not apply in respect of an
ongoing parish councillor election.

10.2

Rule 33 of the election conduct rules applies in respect of an ongoing parish
councillor election as if—

10.2.a

in the table after paragraph (1)—

10.2.a.i

in entry 2 (proxies), in the column headed “Question”—

10.2.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

10.2.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of C.D. before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

10.2.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

10.2.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for an elector with an anonymous entry), in the column
headed “Question”—

10.2.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

10.2.a.ii.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is (read out the number) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

10.2.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

10.2.b

in paragraph (2), after “3(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Poll card forms for certain parish councillor elections


11

11.1

The amendments made by regulation 4(9)(c) and (d) and (17)(c) and (d) do not
apply in respect of an ongoing parish councillor election.

11.2

The form of the official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person)
and the form of the official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting in person) in the election conduct rules apply in respect of an ongoing
parish councillor election as if, on the front of the form, before the text
that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in the
case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

11.3

The form of the official postal poll card (to be sent to an elector voting by
post) and the form of the official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) in the election conduct rules apply in respect
of a relevant parish councillor election as if on the back of the form, before
the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted
“(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

11.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies to an election of councillors of a principal area
for which—

11.4.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with the relevant rule on or
after 31st January 2024, and

11.4.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

11.5

The form of the official postal poll card (to be sent to an elector voting by
post) and the form of the official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) in the election conduct rules apply in respect
of an election to which this sub-paragraph applies as if, on the back of the
form, for the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” and ends
with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

.

##### Greater London Authority elections


###### Interpretation of Part 4


12

In this Part—

      “ Authority election ”, “Constituency Members Election Rules”, “London
Members Election Rules and “Mayoral Election Rules” have the same meanings as
in rule 2 of the GLA Rules;           “ ongoing Authority election ” means a
relevant Authority election where the date of poll as specified in the notice
of election is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ relevant Authority
election ” means an Authority election where the notice of election published
in accordance with the relevant rule is published on or before 30th January
2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain Authority elections


13

13.1

The amendments made by regulation 5(7), (13), (19), (25), (31) and (37) do not
apply in respect of an ongoing Authority election.

13.2

The questions to voters rule applies in respect of a relevant Authority
election as if—

13.2.a

in the table after paragraph (1)—

13.2.a.i

in entry 2 (proxies), in the column headed “Question”—

13.2.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

13.2.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of C.D. before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

13.2.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

13.2.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for an elector with an anonymous entry), in the column
headed “Question”—

13.2.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

13.2.a.ii.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is (read out the number) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

13.2.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”

13.2.b

in paragraph (2), after “3(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

13.3

In paragraph (2), “ the questions to voters rule ” means—

13.3.a

rule 36 in the Constituency Members Election Rules or Mayoral Election Rules;

13.3.b

rule 37 in the London Members Election Rules.

###### Poll card forms for certain Authority elections


14

14.1

The amendments made by regulation 5(38)(e) and (f) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing Authority election.

14.2

In Schedule 10 to the GLA Rules (forms)—

14.2.a

Form 12 (official poll card) and Form 14 (official proxy poll card) apply in
respect of a relevant Authority election as if, on the front of the form,
before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were
inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” ;

14.2.b

Form 13 (official postal poll card) and Form 15 (official proxy postal poll
card) apply in respect of a relevant Authority election as if on the back of
the form, before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at   the same election
” there were inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October
2023)” .

14.2.c

Form 13 (official postal poll card) and Form 15 (official proxy postal poll
card) apply in respect of an Authority election to which sub-paragraph (3)
applies as if, on the back of the form, for the text that begins “vote as a
proxy at the same election” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

.

14.3

This sub-paragraph applies to an Authority election for which—

14.3.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with the relevant rule on or
after 31st January 2024, and

14.3.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

  Forms for use at an election in respect of which the date of poll specified
in the notice of election is within the period beginning with 2nd May 2024 and
ending with 6th May 2024

Schedule 1, paragraph 5

##### Form for substitution for Form of Candidate’s consent to nomination in Schedule 2 to the Local Elections (Principal Areas) (England and Wales) Rules 2006


    Front of Form

    Back of Form

##### Form for substitution for Form of Candidate’s consent to nomination in Schedule 3 to the Local Elections (Principal Areas) (England and Wales) Rules 2006


    Front of Form

    Back of Form

##### Form for substitution for Form of Candidate’s consent to nomination in Schedule 2 to the Local Elections (Parishes and Communities) (England and Wales) Rules 2006


    Front of Form

    Back of Form

##### Form for substitution for Form of Candidate’s consent to nomination in Schedule 3 to the Local Elections (Parishes and Communities) (England and Wales) Rules 2006


    Front of Form

    Back of Form

##### Form for substitution for Candidate’s consent to nomination in Schedule 10 to the Greater London Authority Elections Rules 2007


    Front of Form

    Back of Form

The Local Elections (Principal Areas) (England and Wales) Rules 2006: New
Forms

Regulation 3(9) and (18)

##### Forms for use at an election of councillors of a principal area where poll is not taken together with poll for another election or referendum


###### Form of nomination paper






###### Candidate’s consent to nomination form






Back of Form

###### Form of official poll card






###### Form of official proxy poll card






##### Forms for use at an election of councillors of a principal area where the poll is taken together with poll for another election or referendum


###### Form of nomination paper






###### Candidate’s consent to nomination form


Front of Form



Back of Form

###### Form of official poll card






###### Form of official proxy poll card






The Local Elections (Parish and Communities) (England and Wales) Rules 2006:
New Forms

Regulation 4(9) and (17)

##### Forms for use at an election of councillors of a parish where poll is not taken together with poll at another election


###### Form of nomination paper






###### Candidate’s consent to nomination form


Front of Form



Back of Form

###### Form of official poll card






###### Form of official proxy poll card






##### Forms for use at an election of councillors of a parish where the poll is taken together with the poll at a relevant election or referendum


###### Form of nomination paper






###### Candidate’s consent to nomination form


Front of Form



Back of Form

###### Form of official poll card






###### Form of official proxy poll card






The Greater London Authority Elections Rules 2007: New forms

Regulation 5(38)

##### Form 1: Constituency member and London member (individual) candidates: Form of nomination paper






##### Form 2: London member (party list) candidates: form of nomination paper






##### Form 3: candidate to be mayor of London: form of nomination paper








##### Form 4: candidate’s consent to nomination


Front of Form



Back of Form

##### Form 12: official poll card






##### Form 14: official proxy poll card






## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision in relation to a number of provisions of
the Elections Act  2022 (c. 37)  (“ the Act ”). The provisions implemented by
these Regulations are proxy voting restrictions (section 6 and Schedule 4),
candidates’ commonly used names (section 10), EU citizens’ candidacy rights
(section 15) and disqualification orders (Part 5 of the Act).

  The Regulations make provision in relation to local elections and Greater
London Assembly and London mayoral elections to enable a returning officer to
hold a nomination paper invalid if the person submitting that nomination paper
is subject to a disqualification order, and introduce the new forms of
nomination paper, candidate’s consent to nomination, and elector and proxy
poll cards. The Regulations also make provision to introduce new poll cards
and proxy poll cards that reflect the proxy voting provisions in section 6 of
and Schedule 4 to the Act.

  Regulation 2 applies the new offence of undue influence, inserted by section
8 of the Act to parish polls in England, and maintains the position for
devolved community polls in Wales.

  Regulation 6 amends the vacancy rules in relation to single authority mayors
so that in the event of a disqualification order being made under section 30
of the Act, the vacancy arises on the date determined in accordance with
section 31 of the Act.

  Schedule 1 contains transitional and savings provisions. Paragraph 2 makes
provision so that the amendment to the power of the returning officer to hold
a nomination paper invalid does not take effect in relation to which a notice
of election has been issued on or before 31st October 2023. This is to avoid
changing the powers of the returning officers in the middle of an election for
which notice has been issued prior to commencement.

  Paragraph 3 makes saving provision so that amendments to nomination forms do
not have effect in relation to an election where the date of poll specified in
the notice of election is on or before 1st May 2024. The new forms will apply
to elections on or after 2nd May 2024.

  Paragraph 4 makes saving provision so that the changes in relation to the
candidate’s consent to nomination form to implement the amended EU citizens’
candidacy rights do not have effect in relation to an election where the date
of poll is on or before 6th May 2024.

  Paragraph 5 makes provision so that the form of candidate’s consent to
nomination for an election where the date of poll is on or after 2nd May 2024
but on or before 6th May includes only the amendments to implement
disqualification orders but not the new EU citizens’ candidacy rights. This is
to ensure that the amended EU citizens’ candidacy rights take effect after the
elections to be held on the ordinary day of election in 2024.

  Parts 2-4 (paragraphs 6-14) of Schedule 1 make transitional and saving
provisions in relation to proxy arrangements to ensure that proxies who were
appointed as proxy prior to 31st October 2023 remain subject to the rules on
appointment of and voting by proxies that applied at the time of the
appointment.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.
An impact assessment has been produced in relation to the Act and copies can
be obtained at   https://bills.parliament.uk/publications/44886/documents/1304
or from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities at 2 Marsham
Street, London, SW1P 4DF.

