Title: The Pensions Dashboards (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations revoke and re-enact the Pensions Dashboards Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“the Dashboards Regulations”) as amended by the Pensions Dashboards (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“the Amendment Regulations”), which would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of Article 288(2)(b) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005. Like the Dashboards Regulations, the Regulations make provision in respect of pensions dashboard services, which are intended to enable individuals (or other authorised persons) to request and view information relating to an individual’s pension entitlements electronically.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/209

## The Pensions Dashboards (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under Article 288(2) and (3)(ja) to (jc) of the Pensions (Northern
Ireland) Order 2005 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six
months from the date of their coming into operation

    Pensions

  Made   6th December 2023

  Coming into operation   8th December 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 215A, 215B, 215D, 215E, 215G and
287(2) and (3) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 .

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Pensions Dashboards (No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 8th December 2023.

#### Interpretation

2

Schedule 1 contains definitions of terms used in these Regulations.

#### Application

3

3.1

Part 2 applies—

3.1.a

to a pensions dashboard service , other than a pensions dashboard service
referred to in section 4A(1) of the Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018
(specific functions included in the pensions guidance function), and

3.1.b

to a provider of a pensions dashboard service to which Part 2 applies by
virtue of sub-paragraph (a).

3.2

Subject to paragraph (4), Parts 3 and 4 apply to a trustee or manager of a
relevant occupational pension scheme —

3.2.a

where the scheme existed on the reference date and had 100 or more relevant
members on that date;

3.2.b

where the scheme existed on the reference date and had fewer than 100 relevant
members on that date, but has 100 or more relevant members on any subsequent
date, or

3.2.c

where the scheme was established after the reference date and had 100 or more
relevant members on the date it was established, or has 100 or more relevant
members on any subsequent date.

3.3

These Regulations remain applicable to a relevant occupational pension scheme
where they apply by virtue of paragraph (2)(a), (b) or (c), even if the number
of relevant members falls below 100, unless the number of relevant members
falls to zero.

3.4

Parts 3 and 4 do not apply to a trustee or manager of a relevant occupational
pension scheme—

3.4.a

if the pension scheme has its main administration outside of Northern Ireland;

3.4.b

if the pension scheme is a scheme which is not registrable with the Regulator,
other than a public service pension scheme which is not registrable with the
Regulator (in which case Parts 3 and 4 do apply), or

3.4.c

if the pension scheme is a public service pension scheme which is registrable
but which relates to persons referred to in regulation 3 of the Civil Service
(Other Crown Servants) Pension Scheme Regulations 2016  (establishment of
scheme and eligibility).

3.5

Subject to paragraph (4), Parts 3 and 4 also apply to a trustee or manager of
a relevant occupational pension scheme which has fewer than 100 relevant
members but which is permitted to connect on a voluntary basis under
regulation 16(1).

#### Dashboards Available Point

4

4.1

Qualifying pensions dashboard services  are to be available for use by the
general public from the Dashboards Available Point.

4.2

Prior to the Dashboards Available Point, pensions dashboard services are only
available for use by individuals who are invited by or on behalf of the Money
and Pensions Service to use pensions dashboard services to support testing or
service improvements.

4.3

In this regulation, “ Dashboards Available Point ” means the date specified in
accordance with regulation 4(1) of the Pensions Dashboards Regulations 2022 .

#### Oversight of standards

5

Standards published from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service or by
the Regulator or by the Financial Conduct Authority count as standards for the
purposes of these Regulations only if—

5.a

where standards are published for the first time, they have been approved by
the Department;

5.b

where standards have been published before (having been approved by the
Department) and are being published again in amended form—

5.b.i

they have been approved by the Department, or

5.b.ii

they only contain amendments that in the view of the Money and Pensions
Service involve minor technical changes.

### Prescribed requirements for qualifying pensions dashboard services

#### Qualifying pensions dashboard services

6

This Part prescribes the requirements to be satisfied in order for a pensions
dashboard service to come within the meaning of “ qualifying pensions
dashboard service ” for the purposes of Articles 215A(2) and 215F(3) of the
2005 Order.

#### Cooperation – providers

7

A provider of a pensions dashboard service (referred to in this Part as “ a
provider ”) must cooperate with the Money and Pensions Service to assist with
the exercise of its functions in relation to pensions dashboard services,
including providing information in accordance with standards referred to in
this Part.

#### Connection and functionality

8

8.1

A provider must—

8.1.a

register with the Money and Pensions Service, and

8.1.b

meet the requirements in paragraphs (2) to (6).

8.2

The provider must connect its pensions dashboard service to the Money and
Pensions Service in compliance with—

8.2.a

connection and security standards, and

8.2.b

technical standards,

published from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service.

8.3

The provider must ensure that its pensions dashboard service complies with
service standards and operational standards published from time to time by the
Money and Pensions Service.

8.4

The provider must—

8.4.a

if the consent of the user is provided, immediately seek to obtain the user’s
registered pension identifier from the Money and Pensions Service;

8.4.b

if the user has given consent to a delegate to access the user’s view data,
and if the pensions dashboard service allows for delegated access, enable the
delegate to access the user’s view data;

8.4.c

provide a link to the Money and Pensions Service to enable a user to review,
revoke or amend the consents referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b).

8.5

The provider must issue a view request if—

8.5.a

a pension identifier has been obtained;

8.5.b

the user requests their view data or state pension information, and

8.5.c

the consent of the user is provided in relation to the provider issuing a view
request or requesting state pensions information for the user.

8.6

The provider must notify the Money and Pensions Service without delay of any—

8.6.a

connection state changes, such as downtime (whether scheduled or unscheduled)
or maintenance, or

8.6.b

systemic issues, such as cyber-attacks that could affect the security of the
dashboards ecosystem.

8.7

For the purposes of this regulation, a “delegate” must be—

8.7.a

a Money and Pensions Service guider (meaning a person from the Money and
Pensions Service whose role involves guiding users of pensions dashboard
services);

8.7.b

a person who has permission under Part 4A  of the FSMA (permission to carry on
regulated activities) to advise on either of the following—

8.7.b.i

investments as referred to in Article 53(1) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 ;

8.7.b.ii

conversion or transfer of pension benefits as referred to in Article 53E(1)
of that Order, or

8.7.c

another person whom the Money and Pensions Service considers appropriate.

8.8

For the purposes of this regulation and regulation 11, a “view request” also
includes a request made by a qualifying pensions dashboard service or by the
pensions dashboard service provided by the Money and Pensions Service to a
specified authorised person pursuant to section 137FAA  of the FSMA (FCA
general rules: pensions dashboards).

8.9

For the purposes of this regulation and regulations 9 and 11, “view data” also
includes similar data provided by a personal or stakeholder pension scheme
pursuant to rules made under section 137FAA of the FSMA.

#### View data

9

9.1

A pensions dashboard service must display to the individual concerned the view
data provided by a pension scheme—

9.1.a

as soon as it is received, and

9.1.b

without charge.

9.2

The presentation by a pensions dashboard service of view data, and of general
information about using the pensions dashboard service and accessing the
service to see view data, must accord with design standards published from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service.

9.3

A pensions dashboard service must not store view data, unless the view data is
stored in the form of temporary caching and for the sole purpose of displaying
the view data in a single session.

#### State pension information

10

10.1

A pensions dashboard service must display to the individual concerned
whichever of the following information is provided by the Department—

10.1.a

state pension information;

10.1.b

notice that state pension information, or an element of state pension
information, is unavailable;

10.1.c

supporting messages.

10.2

Information referred to in paragraph (1) must be displayed—

10.2.a

without delay, and

10.2.b

without charge.

10.3

The content and manner of display of supporting messages must accord with
standards on state pension information published from time to time by the
Department covering the following—

10.3.a

generic messages;

10.3.b

messages relating to the user’s state pension information;

10.3.c

messages to indicate where further information relating to the state pension
information provided is available;

10.3.d

messages for display where state pension information has not been provided by
the Department;

10.3.e

any other messages relating to state pension information that has been
provided by the Department.

10.4

The presentation by a pensions dashboard service of information referred to in
paragraph (1), and of general information about using the pensions dashboard
service and accessing the service to see state pension information, must
accord with design standards published from time to time by the Money and
Pensions Service.

10.5

A pensions dashboard service—

10.5.a

must only display information referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) of
paragraph (1) which is provided by the Department, and

10.5.b

must not store such information other than in the form of temporary caching
and for the sole purpose of displaying it in a single session.

10.6

For the purposes of this regulation—

10.6.a

a reference to “ state pension information ”, in relation to an individual, is
to be read as including a reference to the tax years upon which the state
pension information referred to in section 38(7)  of the 2000 Act is based,
(where “ tax year ” means a period beginning with 6th April in one year and
ending with 5th April in the next year);

10.6.b

“ element of state pension information ” refers to any of the information
relating to an individual that is listed in paragraphs (a) to (e) of section
38(7) of the 2000 Act;

10.6.c

“ supporting messages ” means—

10.6.c.i

messages relating to state pension information;

10.6.c.ii

messages to be displayed when state pension information, or an element of
state pension information, is unavailable.

#### Operational information and reporting

11

11.1

A provider must provide operational information upon request to any of the
following—

11.1.a

the Money and Pensions Service;

11.1.b

the Regulator;

11.1.c

the Financial Conduct Authority;

11.1.d

the Department,

in accordance with reporting standards published from time to time by the
Money and Pensions Service or by the Regulator or by the Financial Conduct
Authority.

11.2

In this regulation, “ operational information ” means information that is
relevant to—

11.2.a

the operation of pensions dashboard services;

11.2.b

monitoring compliance with the requirements prescribed in this Part;

11.2.c

supporting the functions of the Regulator in respect of Parts 3 and 4.

11.3

Information referred to in paragraph (2) may include (but is not limited to)—

11.3.a

analytical and statistical information relating to the delivery of pensions
dashboard services;

11.3.b

information on missing data, data formatting, and data received from pension
schemes;

11.3.c

survey data collected from its users to assist with evaluation of the pensions
dashboard service;

11.3.d

information on—

11.3.d.i

the number of view requests issued in respect of each pension scheme;

11.3.d.ii

view data returned by pension schemes in response to view requests, which may
include (but is not limited to) response times and instances of pensions
information not being made available within the required timeframe;

11.3.d.iii

any aspect of the processing of an individual’s request for pensions
information.

11.4

Information referred to in this regulation must be retained on record by the
provider for at least 6 years from the end of the calendar year to which it
relates.

#### Information on making a complaint

12

12.1

A provider must provide users with information on how to make a complaint
relating to the pensions dashboard service that it provides, or to acts or
omissions of the provider.

12.2

This must include a link to the central complaints process for the Money and
Pensions Service.

12.3

In this regulation, “ the central complaints process for the Money and
Pensions Service ” means a service to help users understand what help is
available if things go wrong and their available routes to redress.

#### Enabling auditing

13

13.1

A provider must—

13.1.a

procure and enable an independent person to audit whether or not the provider
and their pensions dashboard service are compliant with the requirements in
this Part—

13.1.a.i

both prior to connection and on an annual basis thereafter, and

13.1.a.ii

as far as possible covering the entire 12-month period between an initial or
earlier report and the next one;

13.1.b

report the outcome of the auditing process to the Money and Pensions Service,
by no later than whichever of the following is appropriate in the
circumstances—

13.1.b.i

20 working days beginning with the day after the date of the initial audit
report, or

13.1.b.ii

one year and 20 working days beginning with the day after the date of a
previous audit report.

13.2

In relation to paragraph (1)—

13.2.a

a provider must—

13.2.a.i

work with the independent person to identify, and must seek to rectify, any
areas of non-compliance;

13.2.a.ii

cover the costs of the auditing process;

13.2.b

a report on the outcome of the auditing process must—

13.2.b.i

include an assessment as to the extent of any compliance or lack thereof;

13.2.b.ii

in respect of any non-compliance, state—

13.2.b.ii.aa

what measures have been put in place to secure compliance, and

13.2.b.ii.bb

that, in the view of the independent person, these measures are adequate to
secure compliance within a reasonable period.

13.3

In this regulation, “ independent person ” means a person—

13.3.a

who is independent of the provider, and

13.3.b

whom the provider reasonably concludes is suitably qualified or experienced to
carry out the tasks referred to in this regulation.

### Requirements relating to trustees or managers of relevant occupational pension schemes

#### Requirements relating to cooperation and connection

##### Cooperation – trustees or managers

14

14.1

Subject to paragraph (2), trustees or managers must comply with the
requirement specified in paragraph (3).

14.2

Trustees or managers of a pension scheme which is not covered by regulation
15(1), but who are granted permission to connect that scheme to the Money and
Pensions Service on a voluntary basis under regulation 16(1), must comply with
the requirement specified in paragraph (3) from the day after the date on
which that permission is granted.

14.3

The requirement is to cooperate with the Money and Pensions Service to assist
with the exercise of its functions in relation to pensions dashboard services,
including providing information in accordance with service standards and
operational standards published from time to time by the Money and Pensions
Service.

##### Connection according to the connection deadline

15

15.1

Trustees or managers of a pension scheme which exists at the reference date
and which has 100 or more relevant members at the reference date must—

15.1.a

register the scheme with the Money and Pensions Service, having regard to the
guidance referred to in paragraph (2)(c), and

15.1.b

meet the requirements in paragraphs (2), (3) and (4).

15.2

Unless a different deadline for connecting to the Money and Pensions Service
already applies pursuant to regulation 17, 19 or 20, trustees or managers must
connect the pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service—

15.2.a

by no later than the connection deadline;

15.2.b

in compliance with—

15.2.b.i

connection and security standards, and

15.2.b.ii

technical standards,

published from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service;

15.2.c

having regard to guidance on connection issued from time to time by the
Department, the Money and Pensions Service and the Regulator either separately
or by at least 2 of them jointly.

15.3

Trustees or managers must keep a record of how they have carried out the steps
set out in the guidance on connection referred to in paragraph (2)(c), or of
alternative steps they have taken in order to comply with the requirements in
this Part on connecting their pension scheme to the Money and Pensions
Service, for at least 6 years from the end of the scheme year to which they
relate.

15.4

Trustees or managers must do the following—

15.4.a

notify the Money and Pensions Service without delay of any of the following,
in compliance with service standards and operational standards published from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service—

15.4.a.i

connection state changes, such as downtime (whether scheduled or unscheduled)
or maintenance;

15.4.a.ii

systemic issues, such as cyber-attacks that could affect the security of the
dashboards ecosystem;

15.4.b

notify the Money and Pensions Service of any change in connection
arrangements.

15.5

The connection deadline that applies to a pension scheme under paragraph
(2)(a) remains fixed, unless—

15.5.a

the deadline changes pursuant to regulation 17, 19 or 20, or

15.5.b

all the members of the scheme become pensioner members.

15.6

Once a scheme has connected to the Money and Pensions Service, trustees or
managers must use every endeavour to ensure that the scheme remains connected
at all times.

##### Voluntary connection

16

16.1

Where trustees or managers wish to connect a pension scheme to the Money and
Pensions Service on a voluntary basis in circumstances where the scheme has
fewer than 100 relevant members, they must apply to the Money and Pensions
Service for permission for the pension scheme to connect to the Money and
Pensions Service on a voluntary basis.

16.2

When applying for permission to connect under paragraph (1), trustees or
managers must have regard to guidance on voluntary connection issued from time
to time by the Money and Pensions Service.

16.3

Subject to consultation with the Regulator, except where the Money and
Pensions Service and the Regulator agree that such consultation is not needed,
the Money and Pensions Service may grant permission for voluntary connection
by such a date as the Money and Pensions Service considers appropriate
(referred to in this regulation as the “ agreed deadline ”).

16.4

Where permission is granted for voluntary connection under paragraph (3), the
agreed deadline remains fixed, unless—

16.4.a

permission to defer connection is given under regulation 17, or

16.4.b

all the members of the scheme become pensioner members.

16.5

Once permission to connect on a voluntary basis has been granted under
paragraph (4), trustees or managers must—

16.5.a

register the scheme with the Money and Pensions Service, having regard to the
guidance referred to in regulation 15(2)(c);

16.5.b

connect the pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service by no later than
the agreed deadline, in compliance with the standards referred to in
regulation 15(2)(b) and having regard to the guidance referred to in
regulation 15(2)(c);

16.5.c

meet the requirements in regulation 15(3) and (4).

##### Deferred connection

17

17.1

Where the trustees or managers wish to defer the connection deadline that
applies to a pension scheme by virtue of regulation 15(2)(a), they may apply
to the Department for permission to do this if—

17.1.a

no more than 12 months has passed since 9th August 2023;

17.1.b

a deferral has not been permitted in respect of the pension scheme previously.

17.2

If applying to defer the connection deadline that applies to a pension scheme,
trustees or managers must—

17.2.a

submit evidence to demonstrate that at least one of the following conditions
applies—

17.2.a.i

that before 9th August 2023, they had embarked on a programme to transfer the
data held by the pension scheme to a new administrator;

17.2.a.ii

that before 9th August 2023, they had entered into a contract containing an
obligation to retender the administration of the scheme, and that the
timetable for this is reasonable and conflicts with the connection deadline;

17.2.b

submit evidence to demonstrate that complying with the connection deadline—

17.2.b.i

would be disproportionately burdensome, or

17.2.b.ii

would put the personal data of members at risk;

17.2.c

set out the steps being taken to ensure that the pension scheme can connect to
the Money and Pensions Service at the earliest opportunity.

17.3

The Department, following consultation with the Regulator and with the Money
and Pensions Service, may by notice—

17.3.a

grant permission to defer the connection deadline until such a date within 12
months of the connection deadline as the Department considers appropriate
(referred to in this regulation as the “ agreed deadline ”), or

17.3.b

refuse to grant permission to defer the connection deadline.

17.4

Where permission is granted to defer the connection deadline under paragraph
(3)(a), the agreed deadline remains fixed, unless all the members of the
scheme become pensioner members.

17.5

Once permission has been granted to defer the connection deadline under
paragraph (3)(a), trustees or managers must—

17.5.a

register the scheme with the Money and Pensions Service, having regard to the
guidance referred to in regulation 15(2)(c);

17.5.b

connect the pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service by no later than
the agreed deadline, in compliance with the standards referred to in
regulation 15(2)(b) and having regard to the guidance referred to in
regulation 15(2)(c);

17.5.c

meet the requirements in regulation 15(3) and (4).

##### Connection for new or growing schemes

18

18.1

If—

18.1.a

a pension scheme does not exist at the reference date or has fewer than 100
relevant members at the reference date, but is established (if it did not
exist previously) and has 100 or more relevant members at a scheme year end
date on or after 1st April 2024, and

18.1.b

the trustees or managers have not been granted permission for the scheme to
connect on a voluntary basis under regulation 16,

then the deadline for connecting to the Money and Pensions Service is as
provided for in paragraph (2).

18.2

The deadline is whichever is the later of the following—

18.2.a

6 months from the end of the scheme year in which the scheme first exists and
has 100 or more relevant members, or

18.2.b

the connection deadline that applies to a scheme which is covered by
regulation 15(1).

18.3

Once a deadline applies pursuant to paragraph (2), that deadline remains
fixed, unless—

18.3.a

permission to defer connection is given under regulation 17, or

18.3.b

all the members of the scheme become pensioner members.

18.4

Trustees or managers must—

18.4.a

register the scheme with the Money and Pensions Service, having regard to the
guidance referred to in regulation 15(2)(c);

18.4.b

connect the pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service by no later than
the deadline pursuant to paragraph (2), in compliance with the standards
referred to in regulation 15(2)(b) and having regard to the guidance referred
to in regulation 15(2)(c);

18.4.c

meet the requirements in regulation 15(3) and (4).

##### Connection where these Regulations cease to apply and then apply again

19

19.1

Paragraph (2) applies in cases where—

19.1.a

Parts 3 and 4 cease to apply to trustees or managers of a pension scheme, on
account of an exception in regulation 3(4)(a), (b) or (c) applying, and

19.1.b

Parts 3 and 4 subsequently apply again to those trustees or managers, on
account of an exception in regulation 3(4)(a), (b) or (c) no longer applying
(referred to in this regulation as the scheme “coming back into scope of the
Regulations”).

19.2

On coming back into scope of the Regulations, the deadline for connecting to
the Money and Pensions Service is to be whichever is the later of the
following—

19.2.a

6 months from the end of the scheme year end in which the scheme comes back
into scope, or

19.2.b

the deadline for connecting to the Money and Pensions Service that applied
previously, under whichever of regulation 15 to 18 or 20 is relevant in the
circumstances.

19.3

Once a deadline applies pursuant to paragraph (2), the deadline remains fixed,
unless—

19.3.a

permission to defer connection is given under regulation 17 (in which case the
rules in that provision apply instead), or

19.3.b

all the members of the scheme become pensioner members.

19.4

Trustees or managers must—

19.4.a

register the scheme with the Money and Pensions Service, having regard to the
guidance referred to in regulation 15(2)(c);

19.4.b

connect the pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service by no later than
the deadline pursuant to paragraph (2), in compliance with the standards
referred to in regulation 15(2)(b) and having regard to the guidance referred
to in regulation 15(2)(c);

19.4.c

meet the requirements in regulation 15(3) and (4).

##### Connection affected by an assessment period

20

20.1

If an assessment period in relation to a pension scheme begins before the
scheme has connected to the Money and Pensions Service—

20.1.a

trustees or managers are not required to connect the scheme to the Money and
Pensions Service before the assessment period ends, and

20.1.b

if, when the assessment period ends, the scheme continues to function as a
pension scheme, the deadline for connecting to the Money and Pensions Service
is whichever is the later of the following—

20.1.b.i

6 months beginning with the day after the date on which the assessment period
ends, or

20.1.b.ii

the deadline for connecting to the Money and Pensions Service that applied
previously, under whichever of regulations 15 to 19 is relevant in the
circumstances.

20.2

Once a deadline applies pursuant to paragraph (1)(b), the deadline remains
fixed, unless—

20.2.a

permission to defer connection is given under regulation 17, or

20.2.b

all the members of the scheme become pensioner members.

20.3

Trustees or managers must—

20.3.a

register the scheme with the Money and Pensions Service, having regard to the
guidance referred to in regulation 15(2)(c);

20.3.b

connect the pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service by no later than
the deadline pursuant to paragraph (1)(b), in compliance with the standards
referred to in regulation 15(2)(b) and having regard to the guidance referred
to in regulation 15(2)(c);

20.3.c

meet the requirements in regulation 15(3) and (4).

20.4

If an assessment period in relation to a section of a scheme or a segregated
part of a scheme begins before the scheme has connected to the Money and
Pensions Service, this does not affect the requirement for the scheme to
connect to the Money and Pensions Service unless all the sections or
segregated parts of the scheme are subject to the assessment period.

##### Notification of disconnection

21

The trustees or managers of a pension scheme which disconnects from the Money
and Pensions Service must notify the Money and Pensions Service as soon as
possible.

#### Requirements following connection of a pension scheme

##### Requirements relating to the provision of pensions information

22

22.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (5), once trustees or managers have connected a
pension scheme to the Money and Pensions Service in accordance with Chapter 1,
they must comply with the requirements in this Chapter on providing, or
facilitating the provision of, pensions information to—

22.1.a

a qualifying pensions dashboard service, or

22.1.b

the pensions dashboard service provided by the Money and Pensions Service,

unless the pension scheme enters an assessment period, in which case the
requirements do not apply for the duration of the assessment period.

22.2

Paragraph (3) applies if—

22.2.a

a pension scheme, section of a scheme, or segregated part of a scheme enters
an assessment period after trustees or managers have connected the scheme to
the Money and Pensions Service;

22.2.b

once the assessment period ends, the scheme, section of the scheme, or
segregated part of the scheme continues to function as a pension scheme,
section of the scheme, or segregated part of the scheme, and

22.2.c

a period of lead in time is required in order for the scheme, section of the
scheme, or segregated part of the scheme to be able to properly meet the
requirements in this Part relating to the provision of pensions information.

22.3

During the lead in time referred to in paragraph (2)(c) (which is to be as
short as possible and no longer than 3 months), and in respect of the scheme,
section of the scheme, or segregated part of the scheme to which the
assessment period relates, trustees or managers are only required to do the
following in response to a view request—

22.3.a

they must meet the requirements in this Chapter relating to the provision of
administrative data, and

22.3.b

they must return a message, in accordance with data standards published from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service, explaining that value data
cannot be provided due to the scheme, section of the scheme, or segregated
part of the scheme undergoing or having recently undergone assessment by the
Pension Protection Fund.

22.4

Once the lead in time referred to in paragraph (3) has ended, trustees or
managers referred to in that paragraph must comply with the requirements in
this Chapter on providing, or facilitating the provision of, pensions
information to—

22.4.a

a qualifying pensions dashboard service, or

22.4.b

the pensions dashboard service provided by the Money and Pensions Service.

22.5

If a pension scheme, section of a scheme, or segregated part of a scheme is
winding up, then, while it is winding up, trustees or managers are only
required to do the following in response to a view request, in respect of the
scheme, section of the scheme, or segregated part of the scheme that is
winding up—

22.5.a

they must meet the requirements in this Chapter relating to the provision of
administrative data;

22.5.b

they must do one of the following—

22.5.b.i

they must return a message, in accordance with data standards published from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service, explaining that it would not
be appropriate to provide value data, or

22.5.b.ii

they must—

22.5.b.ii.aa

as far as possible in accordance with regulations 25 to 27, provide value
data, along with corresponding contextual information and signpost data, and

22.5.b.ii.bb

return a message, in accordance with data standards published from time to
time by the Money and Pensions Service, explaining that the scheme, section of
the scheme, or segregated part of the scheme is winding up.

##### Find requests, matching, pension identifiers and view requests

23

23.1

Trustees or managers must decide on criteria to use for matching (“the
matching criteria”), and they must keep a record of this for at least 6 years
from the end of the scheme year in which the decision is taken.

23.2

On receipt of a find request, trustees or managers must complete matching
immediately, having regard to guidance on matching issued from time to time by
the Department or the Regulator.

23.3

In a case where there is a positive match, and where this relates to a member
who is or could be a relevant member, trustees or managers must—

23.3.a

immediately create and register a pension identifier with the Money and
Pensions Service, in accordance with technical standards published from time
to time by the Money and Pensions Service;

23.3.b

store information that indicates whether the pension identifier relates to a
match made or to a possible match.

23.4

In a case where there is a possible match, trustees or managers must—

23.4.a

check with the Money and Pensions Service that the individual to whom the find
request relates has consented to their view data being provided to the
pensions dashboard service that issued the view request;

23.4.b

immediately provide to the pensions dashboard service that issued the view
request—

23.4.b.i

the administrative data referred to in regulation 24(1)(a)(i) and (b)
(together referred to as a “ limited form of administrative data ”)—

23.4.b.i.aa

in the format and manner set out in data standards published from time to time
by the Money and Pensions Service;

23.4.b.i.bb

having regard to guidance on data issued from time to time by the Money and
Pensions Service;

23.4.b.ii

a message, in accordance with data standards published from time to time by
the Money and Pensions Service, indicating—

23.4.b.ii.aa

that further information is required in order to determine if a match can be
made, and

23.4.b.ii.bb

that the individual to whom the find request relates must contact the pension
scheme without delay (and, as set out in sub-paragraph (d)(i), within 30 days)
in order to provide further information so that the pension scheme can
determine whether a match can be made;

23.4.c

if the individual to whom the find request relates contacts them, immediately
seek to resolve the possible match, having regard to guidance on matching
issued from time to time by the Department or the Regulator;

23.4.d

if the individual to whom the find request relates—

23.4.d.i

does not make contact with the pension scheme regarding the possible match
within 30 days of receiving a limited form of administrative data as referred
to in the opening words of sub-paragraph (b)(i), or

23.4.d.ii

does make contact, but the scheme is unable to resolve the possible match as a
match made within such time as may be reasonably allowed by the pension
scheme, having regard to guidance on matching referred to in paragraph (2),

delete the find request information and de-register the pension identifier
from the Money and Pensions Service as soon as possible;

23.4.e

if a match is subsequently made, notify the Money and Pensions Service of
this.

23.5

In a case where a match is made (including where, following a possible match,
a match is made), trustees or managers must, on receipt of a view request—

23.5.a

check with the Money and Pensions Service that the individual to whom the find
request relates has consented to their view data being provided to the
pensions dashboard service that issued the view request;

23.5.b

provide view data as referred to in regulations 24 to 27 to the pensions
dashboard service that issued the view request—

23.5.b.i

in the format and manner set out in data standards published from time to time
by the Money and Pensions Service, and

23.5.b.ii

having regard to guidance on data issued from time to time by the Money and
Pensions Service.

23.6

In a case where a match is made but the member subsequently ceases to be a
relevant member, trustees or managers must de-register the pension identifier
from the Money and Pensions Service as soon as possible.

##### Administrative data

24

24.1

Administrative data is comprised of the following—

24.1.a

information about the pension scheme, including—

24.1.a.i

the name of the pension scheme;

24.1.a.ii

a description of the types of benefits provided under the scheme to the
individual;

24.1.a.iii

whether the individual is an active member, a deferred member or a pension
credit member;

24.1.a.iv

the date when the individual became a member of the scheme;

24.1.b

information about the scheme’s administrator, including—

24.1.b.i

the name of the administrator, having regard to guidance on data issued from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service;

24.1.b.ii

information to enable the individual to get in touch with the administrator,
which accords with data standards published from time to time by the Money and
Pensions Service, and which includes at least one of the following—

24.1.b.ii.aa

the administrator’s website address;

24.1.b.ii.bb

the administrator’s email address;

24.1.b.ii.cc

the administrator’s telephone number and telephone number type, including
whether the number is the primary telephone number, or is for text message
service only;

24.1.b.ii.dd

the name and full postal address of the administrator;

24.1.c

information about the employment to which the pension relates, including (if
available)—

24.1.c.i

the start date of the earliest pensionable service and, in the case of a
deferred member, the end date of the latest pensionable service, and

24.1.c.ii

whichever of the following is appropriate—

24.1.c.ii.aa

in a case where the pensionable service relates to a single employer, the name
of the employer;

24.1.c.ii.bb

in a case where the pensionable service relates to more than one employer,
either the name of the most recent employer or confirmation that there have
been multiple employers.

24.2

Subject to paragraph (3), trustees or managers must provide administrative
data immediately after a view request is received.

24.3

In the case of a member who seeks view data within 3 months of joining the
scheme (resulting in a view request being issued by a pensions dashboard
service), trustees or managers must provide the administrative data referred
to in paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, and no later than 3 months after
the member’s joining date.

24.4

When providing administrative data under this regulation, trustees or managers
must also provide the date of birth of the individual concerned.

##### Signpost data

25

25.1

Signpost data is comprised of the following—

25.1.a

information on member-borne costs and charges (applicable to money purchase
schemes only);

25.1.b

the scheme’s statement of investment principles;

25.1.c

the scheme’s implementation statement.

25.2

Where signpost data is applicable to the nature of the scheme or type of
benefit in question, trustees or managers must, immediately after a view
request is received, provide a website address for locations where signpost
data can be accessed.

25.3

In this regulation—

      “ statement of investment principles ” has the same meaning as in
regulation 29A(2A)(a)  of the 2014 Regulations (publishing charges and
transaction costs and other relevant information);           “ implementation
statement ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 30(1)(f)(i)  of Schedule 3 to
the 2014 Regulations (information to be given on request).

##### Value data

26

26.1

Value data is the information required by this regulation and by Schedule 2.

26.2

Trustees or managers must provide value data as specified in Part 1 of
Schedule 2, unless an exemption applies in respect of projected values under
Part 2 of Schedule 2.

26.3

All value data specified in Part 1 of Schedule 2—

26.3.a

must be from—

26.3.a.i

a statement provided to the member within the last 13 months, even if the
values in that statement were calculated more than 13 months ago and whether
or not such a calculation was done in response to an earlier view request, or

26.3.a.ii

a calculation performed for the member within the last 12 months, whether or
not such a calculation was done in response to an earlier view request;

26.3.b

must have the same illustration date.

26.4

Where value data is provided as specified in Part 1 of Schedule 2—

26.4.a

it must be accompanied by information specified in regulation 27 (“contextual
information”), and

26.4.b

it must be provided, together with the contextual information required, within
the timescales set out in paragraph (5).

26.5

Subject to paragraph (6)—

26.5.a

where the value has been generated for a statement provided to the member
within the past 13 months, or is based on a calculation made within the past
12 months, the information must be returned immediately;

26.5.b

where sub-paragraph (a) does not apply—

26.5.b.i

in a case where all benefits provided to a member are money purchase benefits,
it must be returned within 3 working days from the day after the date on
which—

26.5.b.i.aa

a pension identifier is registered for a positive match, or

26.5.b.i.bb

the Money and Pensions Service is notified that a possible match is a match
made;

26.5.b.ii

in all other cases (including where the benefits provided to a member are
hybrid benefits which depend on anything other than a money purchase
calculation), it must be returned within 10 working days from the day after
the date on which a pension identifier is registered for a positive match or
(if appropriate) from the date on which it is re-registered as a match made.

26.6

Where a member seeks view data (resulting in a view request being issued by a
pensions dashboard service) within 12 months of the end of that member’s first
full scheme year, trustees or managers must meet the requirements of
paragraphs (2) to (5) as soon as practicable and no later than the sooner of—

26.6.a

the point at which the first statement has been produced for that member, or

26.6.b

12 months after the end of that member’s first full scheme year.

26.7

Where an element of value data that trustees or managers are required to
provide under this regulation is not returned on time—

26.7.a

the trustee or manager must provide a reason for this (in particular if there
is a system error or a delay in calculation), in accordance with data
standards published from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service;

26.7.b

the giving of a reason under sub-paragraph (a) does not excuse the trustees or
managers from the requirement to provide the element of value data.

26.8

In this regulation—

      “ statement ” means a statement of benefits produced in relation to Part
5 of the 2014 Regulations (information about benefits in payment);           “
working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, Christmas Day,
Good Friday, or a day which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971  in any part of the United Kingdom.

##### Contextual information

27

27.1

Alongside value data referred to in regulation 26(1), the following
information must be provided where relevant in the circumstances—

27.1.a

the illustration date, having regard to guidance on value data issued from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service;

27.1.b

whether the value is expressed as an annual income, lump sum or pot value;

27.1.c

whether the value displayed contains any safeguarded benefits;

27.1.d

whether the value displayed includes any spouse’s or civil partner’s or
dependant’s benefits;

27.1.e

whether the benefits, once in payment, could be subject to change;

27.1.f

the type of illustration provided, as referred to in data standards published
from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service;

27.1.g

the date from when a benefit is to be payable, or, where benefits are to be
paid in tranches (as referred to in paragraph 2(4)(a) of Schedule 2), the date
from when each tranche of benefit is to be payable;

27.1.h

if a pension benefit is payable for a fixed term, the date that the benefit is
payable to (although benefits payable until death should leave the “to” date
blank);

27.1.i

additional information to help the individual better understand their value
data, including on whether—

27.1.i.i

the benefits are hybrid benefits;

27.1.i.ii

the pension may increase or decrease in payment;

27.1.i.iii

the pension may stop paying out or reduce at a certain age;

27.1.i.iv

more than one retirement date has been used to calculate the value (if there
are multiple tranches of benefits);

27.1.i.v

the individual should get in touch with the scheme regarding the information
displayed, together with the reason for this;

27.1.i.vi

a calculation method has been used as referred to in paragraph 2(1)(b)(ii) of
Schedule 2.

27.2

For sub-paragraphs (b) to (f), (h) and (i) of paragraph (1), the data element
in each case should be selected from a fixed list as set in data standards
published from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service.

27.3

In this regulation, “ safeguarded benefits ” has the meaning given by section
51(8) of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 .

##### Operational information and reporting

28

28.1

Trustees or managers must provide operational information upon request to any
of the following—

28.1.a

the Money and Pensions Service;

28.1.b

the Regulator;

28.1.c

the Financial Conduct Authority,

in accordance with reporting standards as published from time to time by the
Money and Pensions Service or the Regulator.

28.2

In this regulation, “ operational information ” means information that is
relevant to—

28.2.a

the operation of pensions dashboard services;

28.2.b

monitoring compliance with the requirements prescribed in this Part;

28.2.c

supporting the functions of the Regulator in respect of Parts 3 and 4.

28.3

Information referred to in paragraph (2) may include (but is not limited to)
information on the following—

28.3.a

the number of find requests received;

28.3.b

the matching process used by the scheme;

28.3.c

in relation to positive matches—

28.3.c.i

the number of matches made that are notified to the Money and Pensions
Service, and

28.3.c.ii

how quickly any possible matches were resolved;

28.3.d

in relation to possible matches—

28.3.d.i

the number of possible matches, and

28.3.d.ii

how many of these resulted in a match being made, resulted in no match being
made, or remained unresolved;

28.3.e

the number of view requests received and the time taken to respond to each
one;

28.3.f

contacts received from users, including details of—

28.3.f.i

queries about pensions information provided;

28.3.f.ii

pensions not found following a search, and

28.3.f.iii

complaints;

28.3.g

any aspect of the processing of an individual’s request for pensions
information.

28.4

Information referred to in this regulation must be retained on record by
trustees or managers for at least 6 years from the end of the scheme year to
which it relates.

### Compliance and enforcement

#### Compliance notices

29

29.1

A compliance notice is a notice directing trustees or managers to take, or to
refrain from taking, the steps specified in the notice.

29.2

The Regulator may issue a compliance notice to the trustees or managers of a
relevant occupational pension scheme where the Regulator is of the opinion
that they are not complying, or have not complied, with any requirement in
Part 3.

29.3

The steps mentioned in paragraph (1) may be any steps that the Regulator
reasonably requires with a view to remedying the non-compliance with a
requirement in Part 3 and, where appropriate, avoiding repetition of it.

29.4

A compliance notice may, in particular—

29.4.a

state the period within which any step must be taken or must cease to be
taken;

29.4.b

require the trustees or managers to provide to the Regulator, within a
specified period, information relating to the non-compliance;

29.4.c

require the trustees or managers to inform the Regulator, within a specified
period, how the trustees or managers have complied with, or are complying
with, the compliance notice;

29.4.d

give the trustees or managers a choice between different steps that may be
taken to ensure that the non-compliance is remedied and, where appropriate, is
not repeated;

29.4.e

cover more than one contravention, with separate steps specified in respect of
each contravention, to the extent that the Regulator considers this to be
appropriate.

29.5

A direction in a compliance notice may be expressed to be conditional on
compliance by a third party, with a specified direction contained in a third
party compliance notice under regulation 30.

29.6

A compliance notice must state—

29.6.a

which provision of Part 3 was not, or is not, being complied with in the
opinion of the Regulator;

29.6.b

the evidence on which that opinion is based;

29.6.c

that if the Regulator is of the opinion that trustees or managers have failed
to comply with the compliance notice, then the Regulator may issue a penalty
notice under regulation 31.

#### Third party compliance notices

30

30.1

A third party compliance notice is a notice directing the third party to whom
it is issued (as referred to in paragraph (2)) to take, or to refrain from
taking, the steps specified in the notice.

30.2

The Regulator may issue a third party compliance notice in any of the
circumstances listed in paragraph (3), where—

30.2.a

the Regulator is of the opinion that the non-compliance by trustees or
managers of a relevant occupational pension scheme with a requirement in Part
3 is or was, wholly or partly, a result of an act or omission by another
person (“ the third party ”), and

30.2.b

that act or omission is not in itself a contravention of Part 3.

30.3

The circumstances are—

30.3.a

receipt of an indication that the trustees or managers of a relevant
occupational pension scheme are unable to confirm whether they are complying
with, or will be able to comply with, a requirement under Part 3, or

30.3.b

the Regulator is of the opinion that the trustees or managers have not
complied with a requirement under Part 3.

30.4

The steps mentioned in paragraph (1) may be any steps that are reasonably
necessary to ensure that any non-compliance with any requirement in Part 3 can
be remedied and, where appropriate, is not repeated.

30.5

A third party compliance notice may, in particular—

30.5.a

state the period within which any steps must be taken or must cease to be
taken;

30.5.b

require the third party to provide to the Regulator, within a specified
period, information relating to the non-compliance;

30.5.c

require the third party to inform the Regulator, within a specified period,
how the third party has complied with, or is complying with, the third party
compliance notice;

30.5.d

give the third party a choice between different steps that may be taken to
ensure that the non-compliance can be remedied and, where appropriate, is not
repeated;

30.5.e

cover more than one contravention, with separate steps specified in respect of
each contravention, to the extent that the Regulator considers this to be
appropriate.

30.6

A third party compliance notice must state—

30.6.a

the particulars of the act or omission by the third party, and which of the
circumstances in paragraph (3) apply in the opinion of the Regulator;

30.6.b

if the Regulator is of the opinion that the circumstances in paragraph (3)(a)
apply, the evidence on which that opinion is based;

30.6.c

if the Regulator is of the opinion that the circumstances in paragraph (3)(b)
apply—

30.6.c.i

which provision of Part 3 was not, or is not, being complied with in the
opinion of the Regulator;

30.6.c.ii

the evidence on which that opinion is based;

30.6.d

that if the Regulator is of the opinion that the third party has failed to
comply with the third party compliance notice, then the Regulator may issue a
penalty notice under regulation 31.

#### Penalty notices

31

31.1

A penalty notice is a notice requiring the person to whom it is issued to pay
a penalty within the period specified in the notice.

31.2

Subject to regulation 33(1) and (3)(b), the Regulator may issue a penalty
notice to—

31.2.a

any trustee or manager of a pension scheme where the Regulator is of the
opinion that the trustee or manager has—

31.2.a.i

failed to comply with a compliance notice under regulation 29, or

31.2.a.ii

contravened a provision under Part 3;

31.2.b

a third party where the Regulator is of the opinion that the third party
failed to comply with a third party compliance notice under regulation 30.

31.3

The amount of the penalty is to be determined by the Regulator, but in respect
of a failure or contravention must not exceed—

31.3.a

£5,000 if the person is an individual, or

31.3.b

£50,000 if the person is a body corporate (including corporate trustees), a
Scottish partnership or any other person who is not an individual.

31.4

A penalty notice must—

31.4.a

state the amount of the penalty;

31.4.b

state the date by which the penalty must be paid, which must be at least 4
weeks after the date on which the penalty notice is issued;

31.4.c

state the period (if any) to which the penalty relates;

31.4.d

if the penalty notice is issued under paragraph (2)(a)(i) or (b), specify the
failure to which the penalty notice relates;

31.4.e

if the notice is issued under paragraph (2)(a)(ii), specify the provision
which has been contravened;

31.4.f

notify the person to whom the notice is issued of the review process under
regulation 34 and the right of referral to a tribunal under regulation 35.

31.5

Where the Regulator may issue more than one penalty notice to a person because
there has been—

31.5.a

more than one failure to comply with the same compliance notice, or

31.5.b

more than one contravention of a provision under Part 3 (whether more than one
contravention of the same provision or contraventions of different
provisions),

the penalty notices may be issued in a single document.

31.6

If a single document is issued as mentioned in paragraph (5), the information
required by paragraph (4) may be provided in the document by reference to more
than one penalty.

#### Penalty notices: recovery

32

32.1

A penalty payable under a penalty notice is recoverable by the Regulator.

32.2

Article 10(8A)  of the 1995 Order (civil penalties) applies to a penalty
recoverable under these Regulations as it applies to a penalty recoverable
under that Article.

32.3

The Regulator must pay into the Consolidated Fund any penalty recovered under
this regulation.

#### Penalty notices: recovery from bodies corporate and Scottish partnerships

33

33.1

Where—

33.1.a

a penalty under regulation 31 is recoverable from a body corporate or a
Scottish partnership by reason of any act or omission of the body or
partnership, and

33.1.b

the act or omission was done with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any persons mentioned in paragraph
(2),

the Regulator may issue the penalty notice to each of those persons who
consented to or connived in the act or omission, or to whose neglect the act
or omission was attributable.

33.2

The persons are—

33.2.a

in relation to a body corporate—

33.2.a.i

any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body, or a
person purporting to act in any such capacity, and

33.2.a.ii

where the affairs of the body corporate are managed by its members, any member
who has management functions;

33.2.b

in relation to a Scottish partnership, the partners of that partnership.

33.3

Where the Regulator requires any person mentioned in paragraph (2) to pay a
penalty, the Regulator—

33.3.a

may not also require the relevant body corporate or Scottish partnership to
pay a penalty in respect of the same act or omission, and

33.3.b

must issue a penalty notice to the person who is required to pay, but may also
notify the relevant body corporate or Scottish partnership.

#### Review of notices

34

34.1

The Regulator may review a notice to which this paragraph applies—

34.1.a

on the written application of the person to whom the notice was issued, or

34.1.b

if the Regulator otherwise considers it appropriate.

34.2

Paragraph (1) applies to—

34.2.a

a compliance notice issued under regulation 29;

34.2.b

a third party compliance notice issued under regulation 30;

34.2.c

a penalty noticed issued under regulation 31 or 33.

34.3

An application to review a notice under paragraph (1)(a) must be made within
28 days beginning with the date on which the notice is issued to a person.

34.4

The Regulator may review a notice under paragraph (1)(b) within 18 months
beginning with the date on which the notice is issued to a person.

34.5

In circumstances where the Regulator receives an application to review a
notice under paragraph (1)(a), the effect of the notice is suspended for the
period—

34.5.a

beginning on the day that the Regulator determines to carry out the review,
and

34.5.b

ending on the day that the person who applied for the review is informed of
the outcome of the review.

34.6

In carrying out the review, the Regulator must consider any representations
made by the person to whom the notice was issued.

34.7

On reviewing a notice, the Regulator may—

34.7.a

confirm, vary or revoke the notice;

34.7.b

substitute a different notice.

#### References to the First-tier Tribunal or Upper Tribunal

35

35.1

A person to whom a penalty notice is issued under regulation 31 or 33 may, if
one of the conditions in paragraph (2) is satisfied, make a reference to the
Tribunal in respect of—

35.1.a

the issue of the notice;

35.1.b

the amount of the penalty under the notice.

35.2

The conditions are—

35.2.a

that the Regulator has completed a review of the notice under regulation 34,
or

35.2.b

that the person to whom the notice was issued made an application for review
of the notice under regulation 34(1)(a) and the Regulator has determined not
to carry out a review.

35.3

On a reference to the Tribunal in respect of a notice, the effect of the
notice is suspended for the period beginning on the day the Tribunal receives
notice of the reference and ending—

35.3.a

on the day the reference is withdrawn;

35.3.b

if the reference is made out of time, on the day the Tribunal determines not
to allow the reference to proceed, or

35.3.c

on the day the reference is completed.

35.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(c), a reference is completed when—

35.4.a

the reference has been determined, and

35.4.b

the Tribunal has remitted the matter to the Regulator.

35.5

In this regulation—

      “ the Tribunal ” means—         the Upper Tribunal, in any case where it
is determined by or under Tribunal Procedure Rules that the Upper Tribunal is
to hear the reference;           the First-tier Tribunal in any other case;
“ Tribunal Procedure Rules ” means—         the Tribunal Procedure (Upper
Tribunal) Rules 2008  in relation to the Upper Tribunal; and           the
Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules
2009  in relation to the First-tier Tribunal.

### Disclosure of information

#### Disclosure of information

36

36.1

The Money and Pensions Service may disclose information to the Regulator ,
provided that the disclosure is for the purpose of enabling or assisting the
Money and Pensions Service or the Regulator to exercise its functions in
connection with these Regulations.

36.2

Except as provided by paragraph (3), the disclosure of information under this
regulation does not breach—

36.2.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

36.2.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

36.3

This regulation does not authorise a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation, where “ the data
protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act
2018  (see section 3 of that Act).

36.4

This regulation does not limit the circumstances in which information may be
disclosed apart from this regulation.

### Revocations

#### Revocations

37

The following Regulations are revoked—

37.a

the Pensions Dashboards Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 ;

37.b

the Pensions Dashboards (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 6th
December 2023       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

  Interpretation

Regulation 2

  In these Regulations—         “ the 2005 Order ” means the Pensions
(Northern Ireland) Order 2005 ;           “ the 2014 Regulations ” means the
Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 ;           “administrator”, in the case
of a relevant occupational pension scheme, means a person other than a trustee
or a manager of the pension scheme or a member of the pension board for a
public service pension scheme, who is involved in the administration of the
scheme;           “ assessment period ” has the same meaning as in Article 116
of the 2005 Order, as modified by the Pension Protection Fund (Multi-employer
Schemes) (Modification) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 ;           “
collective money purchase benefit ” has the meaning given by section 52 of the
Pension Schemes Act 2021 ;           “ connect to the Money and Pensions
Service ” means connect to the information technology systems delivered by or
on behalf of the Money and Pensions Service which enable the dashboards
ecosystem to work;           “ connection and security standards ” means
standards on connecting to the Money and Pensions Service and on data security
assessment procedures, in particular the minimum amount of assurance that
providers of pensions dashboard services or trustees or managers of pension
schemes must provide to the Money and Pensions Service (where “ minimum amount
of assurance ” refers to a baseline level of confirmation that relevant
requirements in these Regulations are met);           “ connection deadline ”
means 31st October 2026, being the latest date by which relevant occupational
pension schemes must be connected to the Money and Pensions Service (unless a
different deadline applies pursuant to regulation 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20);
“ dashboards ecosystem ” means the interconnected system that enables pensions
dashboard services to work in accordance with these Regulations, comprised of—
the Money and Pensions Service;           the pensions dashboard services that
connect to the Money and Pensions Service;           the interfaces of pension
schemes that connect to the Money and Pensions Service;           the
interfaces of pension schemes that connect to pensions dashboard services, and
any other party or service that needs to be connected in order for the system
to work;                 “ data standards ” means standards regarding the
manner and format in which pensions information must be provided by pension
schemes to qualifying pensions dashboard services or to the dashboard service
provided by the Money and Pensions Service;           “ deferred member ” has
the same meaning as in Article 121(1) of the 1995 Order;           “ design
standards ” means standards covering the way in which information is to be
presented to users of pensions dashboard services;           “ Financial
Conduct Authority ” has the meaning given by section 1A  of the FSMA;
“ FSMA ” means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ;           “ find
data ” means data which enables matching to take place, comprising—
verified identity attributes;           self-asserted data, and           any
other data that the Money and Pensions Service may add as part of the service
that it provides;                 “ find request ” means a message containing
find data relating to an individual, sent from the Money and Pensions Service
to all relevant occupational pension schemes, asking them to search the
records of the scheme for information on pensions relating to the individual
concerned;           “ guidance ” means further information or guidelines to
which trustees or managers of pension schemes must have regard in complying
with requirements relating to matching, data (including value data),
connection and voluntary connection;           “ hybrid benefit ” means a
benefit the rate or amount of which depends on which of 2 or more alternative
methods of calculation produces the highest, or lowest, rate or amount;
“ illustration date ” means the date specified by the trustees or managers of
a pension scheme as being the date by reference to which the value data
provided to an individual relates;           “ match made ” means a positive
match where the elements of personal data provided by an individual for the
purposes of matching meet the matching criteria referred to in regulation
23(1) to a degree which enables the trustees or managers of the scheme to
determine that the individual is a member of the scheme;           “ matching
” means the process of searching the records of a relevant occupational
pension scheme—         using such elements of personal data provided in a
find request as the trustees or managers consider to be suitable, and
identifying and seeking to resolve a possible match (if any), in order to
determine if the individual who submitted the find request has a benefit under
that scheme,         and match (apart from in “possible match” and “match
made”) is to be construed accordingly;           “ operational standards ”
means standards regarding the operational processes to be followed when
connecting or connected to the Money and Pensions Service, in particular on-
boarding procedures, dispute management processes, and service level failure
protocols, (where “ on-boarding ” refers to the process of connecting to the
Money and Pensions Service);           “ parliamentary pension schemes ”
refers to the following pension schemes—         a scheme for Members of the
House of Commons established under paragraph 12 of Schedule 6 to the
Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 ;           a scheme for members
of the Assembly established under section 48 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998
;                 “ pension credit member ” has the same meaning as in Article
121(1) of the 1995 Order;           “ pension identifier ” means a unique
sequence of characters generated in accordance with technical standards
published from time to time by the Money and Pensions Service and used to
identify a specific pension;           “ pensioner member ” has the same
meaning as in Article 121(1)  of the 1995 Order;           “ positive match ”
means a match which is either a match made or a possible match;           “
possible match ” means a positive match where the elements of personal data
provided by an individual for the purposes of matching only partially meet the
matching criteria referred to in regulation 23(1), such that the trustees or
managers of the scheme are unable to determine (in the absence of further
information) whether or not the individual is a member of the scheme;
“ pot value ” means an accrued pot value or a projected pot value (where
“accrued pot value” and “projected pot value” have the meanings given in
paragraph 6 of Schedule 2);           “ processing ”, in relation to
information, has the same meaning as in section 3(4) of the Data Protection
Act 2018 ;           “ public service pension scheme ” has the meaning given
by paragraphs (a) and (c) of the definition of the term in Article 2(2)  of
the 2005 Order;           “ reference date ” means the scheme year end date
falling between 1st April 2023 and 31st March 2024, both dates inclusive;
“ registrable ”, in relation to a pension scheme referred to in these
Regulations, has the same meaning as in Article 55(5) of the 2005 Order, as
supplemented by regulation 2 of the Register of Occupational and Personal
Pension Schemes Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 ;           “ relevant
member ” means a member of a relevant occupational pension scheme who is an
active member or a deferred member or a pension credit member;           “
reporting standards ” means standards about the way in which operational
information (as defined in the provisions in which this term is used) is to be
generated for reporting purposes, in particular the content of the
information, the manner in which it should be provided, the period of time it
should cover, and the frequency of reports;           “ retirement date ” has
the same meaning as in regulation 19(5) of the 2014 Regulations;           “
scheme year ” means, in relation to an occupational pension scheme, a year
specified for the purposes of the scheme in any scheme document or, if there
is no such year specified, a period of 12 months commencing on 1st April or on
such other date as the trustees choose;           “ scheme without money
purchase benefits ” means a pension scheme under which none of the benefits
provided are money purchase benefits;           “ self-asserted data ” means
additional person details volunteered by an individual, including their
national insurance number, previous names and addresses, email address and
mobile phone number;           “ service standards ” means standards regarding
the service to be provided by, and the behaviour expected of, those connecting
or connected to the Money and Pensions Service, in particular service
availability, software compliance, software interoperability, how to deal with
failed requests, connection state changes (such as scheduled downtime or
maintenance), and when to notify the Money and Pensions Service of personnel
changes;           “ technical standards ” means standards concerning
technical matters, in particular specifications regarding pension identifiers,
the mechanism to be used to connect to the Money and Pensions Service, and the
access management protocol to be used for this;           “ trustees or
managers ” means, unless otherwise indicated, the trustees or managers of a
relevant occupational pension scheme covered by these Regulations, being—
in the case of a scheme established under a trust, the trustees of the scheme,
and           in any other case, the persons responsible for the management of
the scheme;                 “ user ” means an individual who is using a
pensions dashboard service to locate information on their pensions;
“ value data ” has the meaning given in regulation 26(1);           “ verified
identity attributes ” means an individual’s first name, surname, current
address and date of birth, as checked by the Money and Pensions Service;
“ view data ” means the data that is sent by a pension scheme via a pensions
dashboard service to an individual, once the view request has been authorised
and the identity of the individual has been authenticated, comprising—
administrative data, as defined in regulation 24(1);           signpost data,
as defined in regulation 25(1);           value data, as defined in regulation
26(1);           contextual information, as defined in regulation 26(4)(a);
“ view request ” means a request made by a qualifying pensions dashboard
service or by the pensions dashboard service provided by the Money and
Pensions Service, further to a find request and relating to the individual to
whom the find request relates—         to the trustees or managers of a
relevant occupational pension scheme who have registered a pension identifier
with the Money and Pensions Service in respect of that individual, for view
data in respect of the individual, and           to the Department, for state
pension information in respect of the individual.

  Value data

Regulation 26(1) and (2)

##### Value data requirements

1

1.1

For members with money purchase benefits other than collective money purchase
benefits, trustees or managers of the pension scheme must provide the value
data referred to in sub-paragraph (2).

1.2

The value data required is—

1.2.a

an accrued pot value;

1.2.b

once a pension illustration has been given—

1.2.b.i

an annualised accrued value, prepared using the methodology set out in the
relevant guidance, less the elements regarding future contributions and
growth, and calculated as if the individual has reached their retirement date
on the illustration date;

1.2.b.ii

if held, a projected pot value, prepared using the methodology set out in the
relevant guidance;

1.2.b.iii

an annualised projected value, prepared using the methodology set out in the
relevant guidance.

1.3

The value data referred to in sub-paragraph (2)(b)(i) to (iii) may be provided
on a voluntary basis before a scheme produces a pension illustration, using
the version of the relevant guidance available at the illustration date.

2

2.1

For members with benefits that are not money purchase benefits other than cash
balance benefits, trustees or managers of the pension scheme must provide the
following value data—

2.1.a

for active members—

2.1.a.i

an accrued value calculated in accordance with the scheme’s rules and valued
to the illustration date, as if the individual has reached their retirement
date on the illustration date and without regard to possible increases in
earnings;

2.1.a.ii

a projected value calculated in accordance with the scheme’s rules and without
regard to possible increases in earnings, that would be payable from the date
benefits are payable if pensionable service were to end on the member reaching
their retirement date;

2.1.b

for deferred members—

2.1.b.i

an accrued value calculated in accordance with the scheme’s rules and valued
to the illustration date and as if the individual has reached their retirement
date on the illustration date, or

2.1.b.ii

a simplified accrued value (“the alternative accrued value”), calculated using
a method of adjustment which trustees or managers consider to be appropriate
(such as using inflation figures or other percentages from the most recent
version of the Occupational Pensions (Revaluation) Order (Northern Ireland) )
and valued to the illustration date and as if the individual has reached their
retirement date on the illustration date, where each of the following
conditions applies—

2.1.b.ii.aa

no more than 2 years has passed since the scheme connected to the Money and
Pensions Service;

2.1.b.ii.bb

a value in accordance with sub-head (i) could not be provided within the
timescales referred to in regulation 26(5)(b)(ii) without disproportionate
cost and within a reasonable time;

2.1.b.ii.cc

trustees or managers are content that the alternative accrued value is an
appropriate representation of the value of the benefits.

2.2

In respect of sub-paragraph (1)—

2.2.a

value data may be provided as an income or a fixed lump sum or both (where a
fixed lump sum is the actuarial value of a benefit which is designed to be
taken as a lump sum);

2.2.b

value data requirements apply—

2.2.b.i

in the case of a Chapter 1 scheme, from whichever of the following occurs
sooner—

2.2.b.i.aa

the date when the scheme issues a Remediable Service Statement within the
meaning of section 29 of the 2022 Act to relevant members, or

2.2.b.i.bb

1st April 2025;

2.2.b.ii

in the case of a public service pension scheme whose members work for the
judiciary, from whichever of the following occurs sooner—

2.2.b.ii.aa

the date when the scheme issues an Information Statement within the meaning of
section 64 of the 2022 Act to relevant members, or

2.2.b.ii.bb

1st April 2025 (even if an Information Statement has not been issued);

2.2.b.iii

in the case of a local government scheme within the meaning of section 86(1)
of the 2022 Act, from 1st April 2025;

2.2.b.iv

in the case of parliamentary pension schemes, from 1st April 2025;

2.2.c

value data may be provided on a voluntary basis sooner than it is required to
be provided under head (b).

2.3

In relation to Chapter 1 schemes, trustees or managers must provide 2
alternatives in respect of the values referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and
(b), to reflect the differing benefits that a member of the scheme may receive
in respect of the period from 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2022—

2.3.a

if any election under section 10 of the 2022 Act (deferred choice to receive
new scheme benefits) that could be made in relation to the member’s remediable
service were not made, or

2.3.b

if any election under section 10 of the 2022 Act that could be made in
relation to the member’s remediable service were made.

2.4

In respect of a pension scheme which provides benefits that are not money
purchase benefits, in circumstances where a benefit under the scheme is
comprised of tranches (meaning different elements which could be paid from
different retirement dates, or for different periods of time, or at different
rates), trustees or managers must do the following in respect of the values
referred to in sub-paragraph (1)—

2.4.a

they must provide whichever of the following they consider would provide the
best representation of the benefit—

2.4.a.i

a combined value covering all the tranches of benefit, along with a single
common retirement date, or

2.4.a.ii

a separate set of values for different combinations of tranches of benefits,
along with a retirement date in relation to each;

2.4.b

they must provide a message, in accordance with data standards published from
time to time by the Money and Pensions Service, explaining the circumstances
in which a benefit referred to may cease or reduce from a certain age.

2.5

In this paragraph—

      “ the 2022 Act ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022 ;           “ Chapter 1 scheme ” means a public service pension
scheme other than a scheme for the judiciary or for local government workers.

3

3.1

For members with cash balance benefits, trustees or managers of the pension
scheme must provide the following value data—

3.1.a

for active members—

3.1.a.i

an accrued fund value calculated in accordance with the scheme’s rules, valued
to the illustration date and without regard to possible increases in earnings;

3.1.a.ii

a projected fund value calculated in accordance with the scheme’s rules and
without regard to possible increases in earnings, that would be payable from
the date benefits are payable if pensionable service were to end on the member
reaching their retirement date;

3.1.b

for deferred members, an accrued fund value which is calculated in accordance
with the scheme’s rules and valued to the illustration date.

3.2

For members with cash balance benefits, trustees or managers of the pension
scheme must also provide the following value data—

3.2.a

for active members—

3.2.a.i

an annualised accrued value based on the accrued fund value referred to in
sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i), and prepared using the methodology set out in the
relevant guidance, less the elements regarding future contributions and
growth, and calculated as if the individual has reached their retirement date
on the illustration date;

3.2.a.ii

an annualised projected value based on the projected fund value referred to in
sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii), and calculated in accordance with the relevant
guidance, less the elements regarding future contributions and growth;

3.2.b

for deferred members, an annualised accrued value based on the scheme’s rules
and calculated as if the individual has reached their retirement date on the
illustration date.

3.3

The value data referred to in sub-paragraph (2) need not be provided if the
cash balance benefit was set up in a way that was designed to provide a lump
sum on retirement.

4

For members with collective money purchase benefits, trustees or managers of
the pension scheme must provide the following value data—

4.a

for active members—

4.a.i

an annualised accrued value, calculated as if the individual has reached their
retirement date on the illustration date and valued to the illustration date;

4.a.ii

an annualised projected value based on the scheme’s rules and calculated as if
the individual has reached their retirement date on the illustration date, as
if future contributions continue, and without regard to future increases in
earnings;

4.b

for deferred members, an annualised projected value based on the scheme’s
rules and valued to the illustration date.

5

For members with hybrid benefits, trustees or managers of the pension scheme
must supply value data which they consider best represents the value of the
member’s benefits under the scheme, calculated in accordance with what the
trustees or managers consider to be the appropriate methodology from
paragraphs 1 to 4 and indicating which methodology they have applied to the
calculation for each benefit.

6

In this Schedule—

6.a

references to deferred members are to be treated as including pension credit
members;

6.b

the following definitions apply—

      “ accrued value ” means an accrued pot value, an accrued fund value, or
an annualised accrued value;           “ accrued fund value ” means the
current value of a member’s accrued rights, expressed as a single amount;
“ accrued pot value ” means the current value of a member’s pension benefits,
expressed as a single amount;           “ annualised accrued value ” means the
current value of a member’s pension benefits, expressed as an annual income;
“ annualised projected value ” means an estimate of the value of a member’s
pension benefits expressed as an annual income at their retirement date;
“ cash balance benefit ” has the same meaning as in section 75 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2015 ;           “ cash balance scheme ” means a scheme which
provides cash balance benefits, whether or not the scheme also provides other
benefits;           “ lump sum benefit ” means a benefit designed to provide a
capital value, rather than an income or an amount commuted into a lump sum;
“ pension illustration ” means an illustration referred to in paragraph 6  of
Schedule 6 to the 2014 Regulations;           “ projected fund value ” means
an estimate of the value of a member’s accrued rights at their retirement
date, expressed as a single amount;           “ projected pot value ” means an
estimate of the value of a member’s pension benefits at their retirement date,
expressed as a single amount;           “ projected value ” means a projected
pot value, a projected fund value, or an annualised projected value;
“ relevant guidance ” has the same meaning as in regulation 2(1) of the 2014
Regulations.

##### Exemption from certain projected value data requirements

7

7.1

In respect of members with—

7.1.a

money purchase benefits other than collective money purchase benefits, or

7.1.b

hybrid benefits, where the benefit is calculated with reference to both money
purchase benefits and benefits other than money purchase benefits,

trustees or managers are not required to provide the projected pot values and
annualised projected values specified in sub-paragraph (2)(b)(ii) and (iii)
respectively of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, where all of the criteria in
sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph are met in relation to the member.

7.2

The criteria are—

7.2.a

the value of the member’s accrued rights to money purchase benefits under the
scheme, determined in accordance with the relevant guidance, was less than
£5,000 on the last illustration date in respect of which the information
listed in Part 2 of Schedule 6 to the 2014 Regulations was last given;

7.2.b

since the previous illustration date, no contributions (including transfers of
pension rights and pension credits) have been made to the scheme by, or on
behalf of, the member in respect of the member’s money purchase benefits;

7.2.c

the trustees or managers of the scheme have previously given notice to the
member that the information listed in Part 2 of Schedule 6 to the 2014
Regulations will not be given to the member again unless further contributions
referred to in head (b) have been made.

7.3

But even if an exemption applies under sub-paragraph (1), trustees or managers
may provide projected values despite not being required to do so.

7.4

In respect of members with—

7.4.a

money purchase benefits other than collective money purchase benefits, or

7.4.b

hybrid benefits, where the benefit is calculated with reference to both money
purchase benefits and benefits other than money purchase benefits,

trustees or managers are not required to provide any projected values referred
to in Part 1 of this Schedule for a member within 2 years of their retirement
date.

7.5

But even if an exemption applies under sub-paragraph (4), trustees or managers
may provide projected values despite not being required to do so.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations revoke and re-enact the Pensions Dashboards Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 (“ the Dashboards Regulations ”) as amended by the
Pensions Dashboards (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“ the
Amendment Regulations ”), which would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue
of Article 288(2)(b) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005. Like the
Dashboards Regulations, the Regulations make provision in respect of pensions
dashboard services, which are intended to enable individuals (or other
authorised persons) to request and view information relating to an
individual’s pension entitlements electronically.

  Part 1 of the Regulations contains provisions of general relevance to the
Regulations. Regulation 1 contains introductory provisions. Regulation 2
introduces Schedule 1, which sets out definitions of terms used in the
Regulations.

  Regulation 3 makes provision for the Regulations to apply to pension
dashboard services or to the providers of such services (other than the
pensions dashboard service provided by the Money and Pensions Service), and to
the trustees or managers of relevant occupational pension schemes with 100 or
more members who are not pensioners. It excludes from the scope of the
Regulations schemes whose main administration is located outside Northern
Ireland, and schemes which are not registrable (with the exception of public
service pension schemes). It also specifies how Parts 3 and 4 of the
Regulations apply to schemes which connect on a voluntary basis to the Money
and Pensions Service. Regulation 4 makes provision for the Dashboards
Available Point. Regulation 5 makes provision for oversight of standards
referred to in the Regulations.

  Part 2 of the Regulations prescribes the requirements to be met by pensions
dashboard services, or by the providers of such services, in order for those
services to be classified as qualifying pensions dashboard services within the
meaning of Article 215A(2) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005. The
requirements include references to standards published from time to time by
the Money and Pensions Service and by the Department for Communities.

  Part 3 of the Regulations imposes requirements on trustees or managers of
relevant occupational pension schemes. The requirements cover cooperation
(which is necessary for the overall system of pensions dashboard services to
work) and connection to the Money and Pensions Service (Chapter 1), and (once
schemes have connected) the provision of information to qualifying pensions
dashboard services or to the pensions dashboard service provided by the Money
and Pensions Service (Chapter 2). The requirements in Part 3 include
references to standards published from time to time by the Money and Pensions
Service, and to guidance issued from time to time by the Department for
Communities, the Money and Pensions Service and the Pensions Regulator either
separately or by at least 2 of them jointly.

  Within Part 3 of the Regulations, regulation 26 introduces Schedule 2. Part
1 of Schedule 2 makes provision for value data requirements to be met by
trustees or managers or relevant occupational pension schemes, and Part 2
makes provision regarding exemptions from certain value data requirements.

  Part 4 of the Regulations makes provision for compliance notices, third
party compliance notices and penalty notices to be given where this is
necessary to ensure that the rules in Part 3 are complied with.

  Part 5 of the Regulations makes provision to enable the Money and Pensions
Service to share information with the Pensions Regulator in connection with
the functions of the Money and Pensions Service or of the Pensions Regulator
under the Regulations, so that the Regulations can work effectively.

  Part 6 of the Regulations revokes the Dashboards Regulations and the
Amendment Regulations.

  As these Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain, the requirement to
consult under Article 289(1) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005
does not apply by virtue of paragraph (2)(e) of that Article.

  An assessment of the cost to business of these Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment which accompanied the Amendment Regulations, a
copy of which was laid in the Business Office and the Library of the Northern
Ireland Assembly. Copies of the Assessment are available from the Department
for Communities, Social Security Policy, Legislation and Decision Making
Services, Level 8, Causeway Exchange, 1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or
from the website: https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-
information . A copy of the Assessment is also annexed to the Explanatory
Memorandum which is available alongside this Statutory Rule on the website:
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

