Title: The Policing Protocol Order 2023
Date: 2024-05-16
Description: Section 79 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 (c. 13) requires the Secretary of State to issue a Policing Protocol. This Order replaces the Policing Protocol, issued under the Policing Protocol Order 2011 (S.I. 2011/2744), which it revokes, with the Policing Protocol 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/649

## The Policing Protocol Order 2023

    Police, England And Wales

  Made   12th June 2023

  Laid before Parliament   13th June 2023

  Coming into force   3rd July 2023

      The Secretary of State makes this Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 79(3)(b) and (5) of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011 .           In accordance with section 79(4) of that
Act, the Secretary of State has consulted representatives of elected local
policing bodies, representatives of chief officers of police of police forces
maintained by those bodies, representatives of police and crime panels and
such other persons as the Secretary of State thinks fit.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Policing Protocol Order 2023 and comes into
force on 3rd July 2023.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales.

### Replacement of the Policing Protocol

2

The Policing Protocol 2023 set out in the Schedule to this Order replaces the
Policing Protocol issued under the Policing Protocol Order 2011 .

### Revocation

3

The Policing Protocol Order 2011 is revoked.

      Chris Philp   Minister of State   Home Office     12th June 2023

The Policing Protocol 2023

Article 2

##### Purpose



1

This Protocol is issued in accordance with the requirements of the Police
Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 (“ the 2011 Act ”). It replaces the
Policing Protocol issued under the Policing Protocol Order 2011. It sets out
to all Police and Crime Commissioners (“PCCs”) and the Mayor’s Office for
Policing and Crime (“ MOPAC ”), Chief Constables, Police and Crime Panels and
the London Assembly Police and Crime Panel how their functions will be
exercised in relation to each other. An effective, constructive working
relationship is more likely to be achieved where communication and clarity of
understanding are at their highest. Mutual understanding of, and respect for,
each party’s statutory functions will serve to enhance policing for local
communities.

##### Scope



2

This Protocol applies to every PCC in England and Wales and, unless
specifically stated, a reference in the Protocol to a PCC includes the MOPAC,
Mayors with PCC functions and Police, Fire and Crime Commissioners. The
provisions of the Protocol extend exclusively to a Mayor’s PCC functions.

3

This Protocol applies to every Chief Constable of a police force maintained by
a PCC and unless specifically stated, a reference in the Protocol to a Chief
Constable includes the Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis.

4

This Protocol applies to every Police and Crime Panel in England and Wales
and, unless specifically stated, a reference to a Police and Crime Panel (or
simply the Panel) includes the Panel formed by the London Assembly.

5

The staff of each PCC and the constables and staff of each police force are
expected to have regard to this document.

6

This Protocol does not legally bind the Commissioner of the City of London
Police or the Common Council of the City of London, which continues to form
the police authority for the City of London. However, they are encouraged to
abide by the working principles of this Protocol.

7

Where reference is made to both PCCs and the Common Council of the City of
London, the Protocol describes them collectively as Local Policing Bodies.

8

The establishment and maintenance of effective working relationships by these
parties is fundamental. It is expected that the principles of goodwill,
professionalism, openness and trust will underpin the relationship between
them and all parties will do their utmost to make the relationship work.

9

This Protocol does not supersede or vary the legal duties and requirements of
the office of constable. Chief Constables remain operationally independent.

10

All parties will abide by the seven principles set out in Standards in Public
Life: First Report of the Committee on Standards in Public Life  (known as “
the Nolan Principles ”).

##### Legislative Framework



11

The 2011 Act establishes PCCs within each force area in England and Wales with
the exception of the City of London. The 2011 Act gives these PCCs
responsibility for the totality of policing within their force area. It
further requires them to hold the force Chief Constable to account for the
operational delivery of policing including in relation to the Strategic
Policing Requirement published by the Home Secretary.

12

The 2011 Act does not impinge on the common law legal authority of the office
of constable, or the duty of constables to maintain the King’s Peace without
fear or favour. It is the will of Parliament and Government that the office of
constable shall not be open to improper political interference.

13

Each PCC and their respective Chief Constable are established in law as
corporations sole within the 2011 Act. In doing so both the PCC and the Chief
Constable are enabled by law to employ staff and hold funds. Chief Constables
are charged with the impartial direction and control of all constables and
staff within the police force that they lead. The staff of the PCC are
accountable to the directly elected holder of that office to enable the PCC to
exercise their functions.

14

The public accountability for the delivery and performance of the police
service is placed into the hands of the PCC on behalf of their electorate. The
PCC draws on their mandate to set and shape the strategic objectives of their
force area in consultation with the Chief Constable. They are accountable to
the electorate; the Chief Constable is accountable to their PCC. The Panel
within each force area is empowered to maintain a regular check and balance on
the performance of the PCC in that context.

##### The PCC



15

The PCC within each force area has a statutory duty and electoral mandate to
hold the police to account on behalf of the public.

16

The PCC is the recipient of all funding, including the government grant and
precept and other sources of income, related to policing and crime reduction
and all funding for a force must come via the PCC. How this money is allocated
is a matter for the PCC in consultation with the Chief Constable, or in
accordance with any grant terms. The Chief Constable will provide professional
advice and recommendations.

17

The PCC has the legal power and duty to—

17.a

set the strategic direction and objectives of the force through the Police and
Crime Plan (“the Plan”), which must have regard to the Strategic Policing
Requirement set by the Home Secretary;

17.b

scrutinise, support and challenge the overall performance of the force
including against the priorities agreed within the Plan;

17.c

hold the Chief Constable to account for the performance of the force’s
officers and staff;

17.d

decide the budget, allocating assets and funds to the Chief Constable; and set
the precept for the force area using local schemes of governance which do not
fetter the effective financial management of forces and enable the Chief
Constable to deliver their role efficiently and effectively;

17.e

appoint the Chief Constable (except in London where the appointment is made by
the King on the recommendation of the Home Secretary);

17.f

remove the Chief Constable subject to following the process set out in Part 2
of Schedule 8 to the 2011 Act and regulations made under section 50 of the
Police Act 1996 ;

17.g

maintain an efficient and effective police force for the police area;

17.h

enter into collaboration agreements with other PCCs, other policing bodies and
partners that improve the efficiency or effectiveness of policing for one or
more policing bodies or police forces in consultation with the Chief Constable
(where this relates to the functions of the police force, then it must be with
the agreement of the Chief Constable);

17.i

provide the local link between the police and communities, working to
translate the legitimate desires and aspirations of the public into action;

17.j

hold the Chief Constable to account for the exercise of the functions of the
office of Chief Constable and the functions of the persons under the direction
and control of the Chief Constable;

17.k

publish information specified by the Secretary of State and information that
the PCC considers necessary to enable the people who live in the force area to
assess the performance of the PCC and Chief Constable;

17.l

comply with all reasonable formal requests from the Panel to attend their
meetings;

17.m

prepare and issue an annual report to the Panel on the PCC’s delivery against
the objectives set within the Plan;

17.n

monitor all complaints made against officers and staff, whilst having
responsibility for complaints against the Chief Constable.

18

In addition, the PCC must not fetter the operational independence of the
police force and the Chief Constable who leads it.

19

In order to enable the PCC to exercise the functions of their office
effectively, they will need access to information and officers and staff
within their force area. Such access to any information must not be
unreasonably withheld or obstructed by the Chief Constable and/or fetter the
Chief Constable’s direction and control of the force.

20

A PCC has wider responsibilities than those relating solely to the police
force, namely—

20.a

a specific responsibility for the delivery of community safety and crime
reduction;

20.b

the ability to bring together Community Safety Partnerships at the force
level, except in Wales;

20.c

the ability to make crime and disorder reduction grants within their force
area;

20.d

a duty to ensure that all collaboration agreements with other Local Policing
Bodies and forces deliver better value for money or enhance the effectiveness
of policing capabilities and resilience;

20.e

a wider responsibility for the enhancement of the delivery of criminal justice
in their area.

##### The Chief Constable



21

The Chief Constable is responsible for maintaining the King’s peace, and has
direction and control over the force’s officers and staff. The Chief Constable
holds office under the Crown, but is appointed by the PCC except in London
where the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis are
appointed by the King on the recommendation of the Home Secretary.

22

The Chief Constable is accountable to the law for the exercise of police
powers, and to the PCC for the delivery of efficient and effective policing,
management of resources and expenditure by the police force. At all times the
Chief Constable, their constables and staff, remain operationally independent
in the service of the communities that they serve.

23

The Chief Constable is responsible to the public and accountable to the PCC
for—

23.a

leading the force in a way that is consistent with the Code of Ethics and Oath
of Attestation made by all constables on appointment and ensuring that it acts
with impartiality (including political impartiality);

23.b

appointing the force’s officers and staff (after consultation with the PCC, in
the case of officers above the rank of Chief Superintendent and police staff
equivalents);

23.c

supporting the PCC in the delivery of the strategy and objectives set out in
the Plan;

23.d

assisting the PCC in planning the force’s budget;

23.e

providing the PCC with access to information, officers and staff as required;

23.f

having regard to the Strategic Policing Requirement when exercising and
planning their policing functions in respect of their force’s national and
international policing responsibilities;

23.g

notifying and briefing the PCC of any matter or investigation on which the PCC
may need to provide public assurance either alone or in company with the Chief
Constable (all PCCs will be designated as Crown Servants under the Official
Secrets Act 1989 ), making them subject to the same duties in relation to
sensitive material as Government Ministers);

23.h

being the operational voice of policing in the force area and regularly
explaining to the public the operational actions of officers and staff under
their command;

23.i

entering into collaboration agreements with other Chief Constables, other
policing bodies and partners that improve the efficiency or effectiveness of
policing, and with the agreement of their respective Policing Bodies;

23.j

remaining politically independent of their PCC;

23.k

managing all complaints against the force, its officers and staff, except in
relation to the Chief Constable, and ensuring that the PCC is kept informed in
such a way as to enable the PCC to discharge their statutory obligations in
relation to complaints in a regular, meaningful and timely fashion. Serious
complaints and conduct matters must be passed to the Independent Office for
Police Conduct (IOPC) in line with legislation;

23.l

exercising the power of direction and control in such a way as is reasonable
to enable their PCC to have access to all necessary information and staff
within the force;

23.m

having day to day responsibility for financial management of the force within
the framework of the agreed budget allocation and levels of authorisation
issued by the PCC within the local schemes of governance. Such schemes should
facilitate the PCC’s strategic direction of the force but should not fetter
the operational independence of Chief Constables and should enable Chief
Constables to deliver their role efficiently and effectively.

##### The Panel



24

The Panel provides checks and balances in relation to the performance of the
PCC. The Panel does not scrutinise the Chief Constable – it scrutinises the
PCC’s exercise of their statutory functions. While the Panel is there to
challenge the PCC, it must also exercise its functions with a view to
supporting the effective exercise of the PCC’s functions. This includes—

24.a

the power of veto (outside the Metropolitan Police District), by a two-thirds
majority of the total Panel membership, over the level of the PCC’s proposed
precept;

24.b

the power of veto (outside the Metropolitan Police District), by a two-thirds
majority of the total Panel membership, over the PCC’s proposed candidate for
Chief Constable;

24.c

the power to ask His Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and
Rescue Services (“ HMICFRS ”) for a professional view when the PCC intends to
dismiss a Chief Constable;

24.d

the power to review the draft Plan and make recommendations to the PCC who
must have regard to them;

24.e

the power to review the PCC’s Annual Report and make reports and
recommendations at a public meeting, which the PCC must attend;

24.f

the power to require relevant reports and information in the PCC’s possession
(except those which are operationally sensitive) to enable them to fulfil
their statutory obligations;

24.g

the power to require the PCC to attend the Panel to answer questions;

24.h

the power (outside the Metropolitan Police District) to appoint an acting
Police and Crime Commissioner where the incumbent PCC is incapacitated,
resigns or is disqualified, and

24.i

responsibility for complaints about a PCC, although serious complaints and
conduct matters must be passed to the IOPC in line with legislation.

25

In order to reflect London’s unique governance arrangements, the powers of the
London Assembly Police and Crime Panel are different to those outside London
in the following ways—

25.a

the London Assembly has the power to amend the Mayor’s proposed budget for the
Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime by a two-thirds majority vote as part of
the budget-setting process of the Greater London Authority (“ GLA ”);

25.b

in London, if the Mayor is incapacitated, resigns or is disqualified, the
Deputy Mayor of London would occupy the office of Mayor, and thus the Mayor’s
Office for Policing and Crime, under the provisions of the Greater London
Authority Act 1999  (“ the 1999 Act ”);

25.c

the London Assembly Police and Crime Panel does not have a formal role in the
appointment or dismissal of the Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis or
other senior police officers;

25.d

the London Assembly Police and Crime Panel has the power to veto the
appointment of a Deputy Mayor for Policing and Crime if the individual is not
an Assembly Member, and has other statutory powers under the 1999 Act in
relation to the Mayor‘s Office for Policing and Crime as a functional body of
the GLA;

25.e

complaints against the holder of the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime,
and the Deputy Mayor for Policing and Crime if he is an Assembly Member, will
be dealt with in accordance with the GLA’s existing standards regime, which
operates under local government legislation.

26

The Chief Constable retains responsibility for operational matters. If the
Panel seek to scrutinise the PCC on the PCC’s strategic oversight of an
operational matter, the Chief Constable may, where necessary and at reasonable
notice, be invited to attend alongside the PCC to offer factual accounts and
clarity (if needed) of the Chief Constable’s actions and decisions. The
accountability of the Chief Constable remains firmly to the PCC and not to the
Panel.

##### The Home Secretary



27

The establishment of PCCs has given the police greater freedom to meet local
priorities and enabled the public to hold the police to account. The Home
Secretary, as the person responsible to Parliament for cutting crime,
protecting the public and protecting our national borders and security, has an
important role in working with PCCs and Chief Constables to ensure the
policing system works effectively.

28

The Home Secretary is ultimately accountable to Parliament and charged with
ensuring the maintenance of the King’s Peace within all force areas,
safeguarding the public and protecting our national borders and security. The
Home Secretary has reserved powers and legislative tools that enable
intervention and direction to all parties. These powers may be used, in line
with statutory tests and public law principles, in exceptional circumstances
when it is determined by the Home Secretary that such action is necessary in
order to prevent or mitigate risk to the public or national security. Such
powers and tools will not be used to interfere with the democratic mandate of
the PCC within a force area, nor seek to interfere with the office of
constable or operational independence more generally, unless the Home
Secretary is satisfied on the advice of HMICFRS that not to do so would result
in a police force failing or national security being compromised.

29

The Home Secretary is responsible for setting the national, strategic
direction of policing and holding the policing sector to account for these
commitments. This includes ensuring all parts of the policing system work
together effectively. To do so, the Home Secretary may invite PCCs and Chief
Constables and their representative bodies to attend national policing
governance and oversight boards.

30

The Home Secretary retains the legal accountability for national security and
the role that the police service plays within the delivery of any national
response. The Home Secretary has a duty to issue a Strategic Policing
Requirement that sets out what are, in their view, the national threats at the
time and the appropriate national policing capabilities that are required to
counter them. PCCs and Chief Constables must have regard to the Strategic
Policing Requirement and PCCs should take into account national policy when
delivering their police and crime plans.

31

In order to ensure that the Home Secretary is equipped with the information
required to respond to the public and Parliament, PCCs and Chief Constables
should expect the Home Secretary to ask for information about matters
pertinent to policing, without compromising the principles of operational
independence or local accountability and in accordance with the Home
Secretary’s statutory powers.

##### Operational Matters



32

The operational independence of the police is a fundamental principle of
British policing. It is expected by the Home Secretary that the professional
discretion of the police service and oath of office give surety to the public
that this shall not be compromised.

33

The current arrangements are defined in part by the 2011 Act.

34

Section 2 of the 2011 Act provides that a police force, and the civilian staff
of a police force, are under the direction and control of the Chief Constable
of the force. Section 4 makes identical provision for the Commissioner of the
Metropolitan Police.

35

The direction and control of a Chief Constable will include—

35.a

the ability to issue a warrant to an attested officer with which that officer
may exercise their police powers;

35.b

decisions in relation to the appointment and dismissal of officers and staff;

35.c

decisions concerning the configuration and organisation of policing resources
(or) the decision whether, or whether not, to deploy police officers and
staff;

35.d

total discretion to investigate or require an investigation into crimes and
individuals as he or she sees fit;

35.e

decisions taken with the purpose of balancing competing operational needs
within the framework of priorities and objectives set by the PCC;

35.f

operational decisions to reallocate resource to meet immediate demand, and

35.g

the allocation of officers’ specific duties and responsibilities within the
force area to meet the strategic objectives set by the PCC.

36

This list is not exhaustive and is by way of illustration only. The Chief
Constable is expected to ensure that their PCC is regularly informed of their
decisions and operational activity in a timely manner so that the PCC can hold
the Chief Constable to account for the totality of policing within their force
area, including the operational delivery of the police service. The direction
and control of the Chief Constable does not just remain under the scrutiny of
the PCC but is open to investigation and scrutiny by the IOPC within the
parameters of their terms of reference.

37

The PCC and Chief Constable must work together to safeguard the principle of
operational independence, while ensuring that the PCC is not fettered in
fulfilling their statutory role. The concept of operational independence is
not defined in statute, and as HMICFRS has stated, by its nature, is fluid and
context-driven.

38

The relationship between the PCC and Chief Constable is defined by the PCC’s
democratic mandate to hold the Chief Constable to account, and by the law
itself: primary legislation and common law already provide clarity on the
legal principles that underpin operational independence and the Office of
Constable.

39

In order to respond to the strategic objectives set by the PCC and the wide
variety of challenges faced by the police every day, the Chief Constable is
charged with the direction and control of the Force and day-to-day management
of such force assets as agreed by the PCC.

40

This Protocol does not fetter the ability of the IOPC to issue separate
guidance on the distinct meaning of ‘direction and control’ as it is used in
Part 2 of the Police Reform Act 2002 in the context of police complaints.

##### Financial Responsibilities



41

The PCC is ultimately accountable to the public for the management of the
police fund. The PCC and Chief Constable share a responsibility to provide
effective management of the policing budget and to secure value for money on
behalf of the public that they both serve.

42

The Chief Constable has day to day responsibility for managing their allocated
budgets after they have been approved by the PCC. The Chief Constable must
ensure that the financial management of their allocated budget remains
consistent with the objectives and conditions set by the PCC.

43

The working financial relationship between the PCC and their Chief Constable
is set out in the Financial Management Code of Practice issued from time to
time by the Home Secretary under statute.

##### Resolving differences



44

The PCC is a publicly accountable individual who together with their Chief
Constable will need to establish effective working relationships in order to
deliver policing within England and Wales. Where differences occur, they
should be resolved where possible locally between the PCC and Chief Constable.
Professional advice may be offered by HMICFRS.

##### Review



45

The Home Secretary has a duty to issue the Policing Protocol, to which all
parties must have regard when discharging their functions. This Protocol will
be subject to periodic review.

46

When there is a need to vary or replace this Protocol, the Home Secretary is
under a duty to consult with those parties bound by this Protocol, and any
other person that the Home Secretary sees fit before any changes are made.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  Section 79 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act  2011 (c. 13)
requires the Secretary of State to issue a Policing Protocol. This Order
replaces the Policing Protocol, issued under the Policing Protocol Order 2011
( S.I. 2011/2744 ), which it revokes, with the Policing Protocol 2023.

  The Policing Protocol makes provision about the ways in which relevant
persons should exercise or refrain from exercising functions so as to
encourage, maintain or improve working relationships or limit or prevent the
overlapping or conflicting exercise of functions. “Relevant persons” for these
purposes are the Secretary of State (in the exercise of policing functions),
elected local policing bodies (namely police and crime commissioners,
including Combined Authority Mayors exercising police and crime commissioner
functions, and the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime), chief officers of
police forces maintained by elected local policing bodies, and police and
crime panels. These persons must have regard to the Policing Protocol in
exercising their functions.

  The Policing Protocol 2023 updates and revises the Policing Protocol.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector or community bodies
is foreseen.

