Title: The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations implement amendments to Chapter II-2 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (“the Convention”) relating to fire protection, fire detection and fire extinction, and also make provision in respect of ships to which the Convention does not apply. The Regulations revoke and replace the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Large Ships) Regulations 1998 (S.I. 1998/1012), the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2003 (S.I. 2003/2950) and the provisions that amend both sets of Regulations.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/568

## The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2023

    Merchant Shipping   Safety

  Made   24th May 2023

  Coming into force   1 5 th June 2023

      The Secretary of State, after consulting the persons referred to in
section 86(4) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 , and in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 85(1), (3)(a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (h), (i), (j)
and (n), and (5) to (7), 86(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d), 302(1) and 306A of that
Act, and with the consent of the Treasury, makes the following Regulations.
In accordance with paragraph 13(1) of Schedule 8 to the European Union
(Withdrawal) Act 2018 , a draft of this instrument has been laid before
Parliament and approved by resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Preliminary

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection)
Regulations 2023 and come into force on the 22nd day after the day on which
they are made.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Amendments and revocations

2

2.1

The amendments listed in Part 1 of Schedule 1 have effect.

2.2

The Regulations listed in the first column of the Table in Part 2 of Schedule
1 are revoked to the extent specified in the third column of that Table.

#### Interpretation

3

In these Regulations—

      “ Category A, B, C or D waters ” means the waters specified as such in
Merchant Shipping Notice 1837 (M) Amendment 2 ;           “ Chapter II-2 ”
means Chapter II-2 in the Annex to the Convention (construction: fire
protection, fire detection and fire extinction) ;           “ Convention ”
means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 ;
“ fishing vessel ” means a ship used for catching fish, whales, seals, walrus
or other living resources of the sea;           “ gross tons ” means gross
tonnage determined in accordance with regulation 6 or regulation 12(1) of the
Merchant Shipping (Tonnage) Regulations 1997 ;           “ international
voyage ” means a voyage between—         a port in the United Kingdom and a
port outside the United Kingdom; or           a port in a Convention country
other than the United Kingdom and a port in any other country or territory,
whether a Convention country or not, which is outside the United Kingdom,
and, for the purposes of paragraph (b), “ Convention country ” means a country
or territory which is either a country the Government of which is party to the
Convention or a territory to which the Convention extends whether or not it is
subject to the amendments to, or reservations in respect of, the Convention;
“ long international voyage ” means an international voyage which is not a
short international voyage;           “ Merchant Shipping Notice ” means a
notice described as such and issued by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (an
executive agency of the Department for Transport) and includes a reference to
any document amending or replacing that notice which is considered by the
Secretary of State to be relevant from time to time and is specified in a
Merchant Shipping Notice;           “ mile ” means a nautical mile of 1,852
metres;           “ passenger ” means a person other than—         the master
and the members of the crew or other persons employed or engaged in any
capacity on board a ship on the business of that ship; or           a child
under one year of age;                 “ passenger ship ” means a ship which
carries more than 12 passengers;           “ pleasure vessel ” means—
any vessel which at the time it is being used is—         in the case of a
vessel wholly owned by—         an individual or individuals, used only for
the sport or pleasure of the owner or the immediate family or friends of the
owner; or           a body corporate, used only for sport or pleasure and on
which the persons on board are employees or officers of the body corporate, or
their immediate family or friends; and                 on a voyage or
excursion which is one for which the owner does not receive money for or in
connection with operating the vessel or carrying any person, other than as a
contribution to the direct expenses of the operation of the vessel incurred
during the voyage or excursion; or                 any vessel wholly owned by
or on behalf of a members’ club formed for the purpose of sport or pleasure
which, at the time it is being used, is used only for the sport or pleasure of
members of that club or their immediate family, and for the use of which any
charges levied are paid into club funds and applied for the general use of the
club,         where, in the case of any vessel referred to in paragraph (a) or
(b), no other payments are made by or on behalf of users of the vessel, other
than by the owner; and in this definition “ immediate family ” means, in
relation to an individual, the spouse or civil partner of the individual, and
a relative of the individual or the individual’s spouse or civil partner; and
“ relative ” means brother, sister, ancestor or lineal descendant;           “
relevant Merchant Shipping Notices ” means—         Merchant Shipping Notice
1665 (M) Amendment 1;           Merchant Shipping Notice 1666 (M) Amendment 1;
Merchant Shipping Notice 1667 (M) Amendment 1;           Merchant Shipping
Notice 1668 (M) Amendment 1;           Merchant Shipping Notice 1669 (M)
Amendment 1; and           Merchant Shipping Notice 1670 (M) Amendment 2;
“sea”, other than in the definition of “fishing vessel”, includes any estuary
or arm of the sea but does not include Category A, B, C or D waters;
“ short international voyage ” means an international voyage—         in the
course of which a ship is not more than 200 miles from a port or place in
which the passengers and crew could be placed in safety; and           which
does not exceed 600 miles in distance between the last port of call in the
country in which the voyage begins and the final port of destination,
and, for the purposes of paragraph (b), the final port of destination is the
last port of call in the scheduled voyage at which the ship commences its
return voyage to the country in which the voyage began;           “ similar
stage of construction ” means the stage at which—         construction
identifiable with a specific ship begins; and           assembly of that ship
has commenced comprising at least 50 gross tons or one per cent of the
estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less.

#### Classification of ships

4

For the purposes of these Regulations, ships are classified as set out in
Schedule 2.

#### General application

5

5.1

Subject to paragraph (2), these Regulations apply to—

5.1.a

United Kingdom ships, wherever they may be; and

5.1.b

non-United Kingdom ships while they are within United Kingdom waters.

5.2

These Regulations do not apply to—

5.2.a

ships to which the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships)
Regulations 1998  apply;

5.2.b

ships of war and naval auxiliary ships;

5.2.c

ships owned or operated by a State and engaged only on governmental non-
commercial service;

5.2.d

fishing vessels;

5.2.e

ships not propelled by mechanical means;

5.2.f

wooden ships of primitive build;

5.2.g

ships solely navigating the Great Lakes of North America and the River St
Lawrence as far east as a straight line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to West
Point, Anticosti Island and, on the north side of Anticosti Island, the 63rd
meridian;

5.2.h

non-United Kingdom ships which are pleasure vessels of 500 gross tons or
above;

5.2.i

any passenger ship to which the Merchant Shipping (Passenger Ships) (Safety
Code for UK Categorised Waters) Regulations 2010  apply;

5.2.j

high-speed craft to which the Merchant Shipping (High Speed Craft) Regulations
2022  apply;

5.2.k

vessels to which the Merchant Shipping (Technical Requirements for Inland
Waterway Vessels) Regulations 2010  apply.

5.3

A non-United Kingdom ship flying the flag of a State which is not a party to
the Convention is not subject to these Regulations if it would not have been
in United Kingdom waters but for stress of weather or any other circumstances
which the master, owner or charterer could not have prevented.

5.4

Where persons are on board a ship as a consequence of—

5.4.a

the circumstances described in paragraph (3); or

5.4.b

an obligation laid upon the master to carry shipwrecked or other persons ,

those persons are not to be taken into account for the purpose of determining
the application to that ship of any provision of these Regulations.

5.5

For the purposes of this regulation, “ non-United Kingdom ship ” means any
ship other than a United Kingdom ship.

#### Ambulatory reference

6

6.1

In these Regulations, any reference to Chapter II-2 is to be construed—

6.1.a

as a reference to Chapter II-2 as modified from time to time; and

6.1.b

as, if Chapter II-2 is replaced, a reference to the replacement.

6.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), Chapter II-2 is modified or replaced if the
modification or replacement takes effect in accordance with Article VIII of
the Convention.

6.3

A modification or replacement of Chapter II-2 has effect at the time such
modification or replacement comes into force in accordance with Article VIII
of the Convention.

#### Repairs, alterations, modifications and outfitting

7

7.1

A ship which undergoes repairs, alterations, modifications or outfitting, must
continue to comply with at least the requirements previously applicable to
that ship.

7.2

A ship constructed before 1st July 2012 which undergoes repairs, alterations,
modifications or outfitting must, so far as practicable, comply with the
requirements for ships constructed on or after 1st July 2012 at least to the
same extent as it did before undergoing such repairs, alterations,
modifications or outfitting.

7.3

A ship which undergoes repairs, alterations or modifications which
substantially—

7.3.a

alter the dimensions of the ship or the passenger accommodation spaces; or

7.3.b

increase the ship’s service life,

and undergoes any outfitting related to such repairs, alterations or
modifications, must comply with the requirements for ships constructed on or
after 1st July 2012.

#### Approvals

8

8.1

Unless approved under the Merchant Shipping (Marine Equipment) Regulations
2016 , equipment relating to fire protection, fire detection and fire
extinction placed on board a United Kingdom ship and required by any provision
of, or listed in—

8.1.a

regulation 1.2 or 1.6 of Part A of Chapter II-2;

8.1.b

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2;

8.1.c

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

8.1.d

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M);

8.1.e

Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M); or

8.1.f

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

must be approved by the Secretary of State, or any person authorised by the
Secretary of State.

8.2

Unless approved under the Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification)
Regulations 2015 , arrangements relating to fire protection, fire detection
and fire extinction on board a United Kingdom ship and required by any
provision of, or listed in—

8.2.a

regulation 1.2 or 1.6 of Part A of Chapter II-2;

8.2.b

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2;

8.2.c

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

8.2.d

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M);

8.2.e

Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M); or

8.2.f

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

must be approved by the Secretary of State, or any person authorised by the
Secretary of State.

8.3

The Secretary of State, or any person authorised by the Secretary of State,
may give an approval in relation to a United Kingdom ship for anything in the
instruments, or in the provisions of an instrument, referred to in paragraph
(4) requiring to be—

8.3.a

approved by the Administration of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to
fly;

8.3.b

done to the satisfaction of such Administration; or

8.3.c

acceptable to that Administration.

8.4

The provisions and instruments referred to in paragraph (3) are—

8.4.a

regulations 1.2 and 1.6 of Part A of Chapter II-2;

8.4.b

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2;

8.4.c

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M);

8.4.d

Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M).

8.5

The Secretary of State, or any person authorised by the Secretary of State,
may give an approval in relation to a United Kingdom ship for anything in the
instruments referred to in paragraph (6) requiring to be—

8.5.a

approved by the Secretary of State;

8.5.b

done to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State; or

8.5.c

acceptable to the Secretary of State.

8.6

The instruments referred to in paragraph (5) are—

8.6.a

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

8.6.b

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices.

8.7

An approval given under paragraph (1), (2), (3) or (5) may, on the giving of
reasonable notice, be continued, altered or cancelled.

8.8

Any approval given under paragraph (1), (2), (3) or (5), or a continuation,
alteration or cancellation under paragraph (7), must—

8.8.a

be in writing;

8.8.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

8.8.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

8.9

The requirement that the approval referred to in paragraph (1), (2), (3) or
(5), or a continuation, alteration or cancellation under paragraph (7), be in
writing is satisfied where the text of the approval, continuation, alteration
or cancellation is—

8.9.a

transmitted by electronic means;

8.9.b

received in legible form; and

8.9.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

#### Equivalents

9

9.1

Where any provision of, or listed in—

9.1.a

regulations 1.2 and 1.6 of Part A of Chapter II-2;

9.1.b

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2;

9.1.c

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

9.1.d

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M);

9.1.e

Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M); or

9.1.f

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

contains any of the requirements referred to in paragraph (2), the Secretary
of State may make provision in accordance with paragraph (3).

9.2

The requirements referred to in paragraph (1) are that—

9.2.a

a particular fitting, material, appliance or apparatus, or a type of fitting,
material, appliance or apparatus be fitted on, or carried in, a ship;

9.2.b

any particular arrangement be made on, or in relation to, a ship; or

9.2.c

any particular provision be made in relation to a ship.

9.3

The Secretary of State may approve any other fitting, material, appliance,
apparatus, arrangement or other provision as an alternative to the requirement
in question if satisfied that it is at least as effective as that requirement.

9.4

An approval given under paragraph (3) may, on the giving of reasonable notice,
be continued, altered or cancelled.

9.5

Any approval given under paragraph (3), or a continuation, alteration or
cancellation under paragraph (4), must—

9.5.a

be in writing;

9.5.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

9.5.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

9.6

The requirement that the approval referred to in paragraph (3), or a
continuation, alteration or cancellation under paragraph (4), be in writing is
satisfied where the text of the approval, continuation, alteration or
cancellation is—

9.6.a

transmitted by electronic means;

9.6.b

received in legible form; and

9.6.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

9.7

The procedure for the giving of approvals in regulation 8 (approvals) does not
apply to this regulation.

#### Exemptions

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may exempt from the requirements of any provision of
Chapter II-2, Merchant Shipping Notices 1900 (M), 1901 (M) or 1902 (M) or the
relevant Merchant Shipping Notices—

10.1.a

a ship or class of ship which, during a voyage, does not proceed more than 20
miles from the nearest land, and where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the sheltered nature and conditions of such a voyage make it unreasonable
or unnecessary to require compliance with the requirements;

10.1.b

a ship employed in special trades  for the carriage of large numbers of
special trade passengers (such as the pilgrim trade) where—

10.1.b.i

the Secretary of State is satisfied that it is impracticable to enforce
compliance with the requirements; and

10.1.b.ii

the ship complies with—

10.1.b.ii.aa

the rules annexed to the Special Trade Passenger Ships Agreement, 1971 ; and

10.1.b.ii.bb

the rules annexed to the Protocol on Space Requirements for Special Trade
Passenger Ships, 1973 ;

10.1.c

a ship which does not normally engage on international voyages but is, in
exceptional circumstances, required to undertake a single international
voyage;

10.1.d

a ship which embodies features of a novel kind if research into the
development of those features and their incorporation in ships engaged on
international voyages may be seriously impeded if the ship had to comply with
the requirements.

10.2

The Secretary of State may exempt—

10.2.a

a ship of Class I, II or II(A) of 1,000 gross tons or more, other than such a
ship engaged in the carriage of dangerous goods, from the requirements of
paragraph 3.17 in Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M) (fixed gas fire-
extinguishing systems in cargo spaces); or

10.2.b

a ship of Class I, II or II(A) from the requirements of paragraph 3.37 in
Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M) (fixed fire detection and fire alarm system
in areas not accessible to fire patrol),

if satisfied that the short duration of the voyages on which the ship is
engaged would make compliance with such provision unreasonable.

10.3

The Secretary of State may exempt a ship other than a ship of Class I, II,
II(A), XI or XII from the requirements of—

10.3.a

paragraphs 7.1.3 and 7.2 in regulation 10 of Chapter II-2 (fire-extinguishing
arrangements in cargo spaces);

10.3.b

paragraphs 7.1.3 and 7.2 in regulation 10 in Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M)
(fire-extinguishing arrangements in cargo spaces); or

10.3.c

paragraphs 7.1.3 and 7.2 in regulation 10 in Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M)
(fire-extinguishing arrangements in cargo spaces),

where the ship is constructed and solely intended for the carriage of ore,
coal, grain, unseasoned timber, non-combustible cargoes or cargoes which, in
the opinion of the Secretary of State, constitute a low fire risk.

10.4

An exemption under paragraph (3) may only be granted where the ship is fitted
with—

10.4.a

steel hatch covers; and

10.4.b

an effective means of closing all ventilators and other openings leading to
the cargo spaces.

10.5

The Secretary of State may exempt a ship of Class VII, VII(A), VIII, VIII(A),
IX, IX(A), XI or XII of 2,000 gross tons or more constructed before 1st July
2002, other than a ship engaged in the carriage of dangerous goods, from the
requirements of paragraph 4.7 of Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M) (fixed
fire-extinguishing arrangements in cargo spaces) in so far as the arrangements
referred to in that paragraph relate to the provision of a fixed fire-
smothering gas installation in the cargo holds of the ship, if satisfied that—

10.5.a

the conditions in paragraph (6) are met; or

10.5.b

requiring compliance would be unreasonable on account of the short duration of
the voyages on which the ship is engaged (which voyages may be more than 20
miles from the nearest land).

10.6

The conditions referred to in paragraph (5)(a) are that—

10.6.a

the ship is constructed and solely intended for the carriage of bulk cargoes
which are listed in—

10.6.a.i

Table 1 of MSC.1/Circ.1395/Rev.4  as non-combustible or constituting a low
fire risk; or

10.6.a.ii

Table 2 of MSC.1/Circ.1395/Rev.4 and for which a fixed gas system is
ineffective, the cargo spaces being provided with a fire-extinguishing system
which provides equivalent fire protection; and

10.6.b

the requirements in paragraph (4) are met.

10.7

The Secretary of State may exempt from the requirements of regulation 7(3)
(substantial repairs, alterations, modifications and outfitting) a ship or
class of ship if satisfied that compliance with such provision is either
impracticable or unreasonable in the case of that ship or class of ship.

10.8

The Secretary of State may, in exceptional circumstances not provided for in
this regulation, exempt from the requirements of any provision in Chapter
II-2, Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M), 1901 (M) or 1902 (M) or the relevant
Merchant Shipping Notices, a ship or class of ship if satisfied that
compliance with such provision is either impracticable or unreasonable in the
case of that ship or class of ship.

10.9

An exemption under paragraph (1), (2), (3), (5), (7) or (8) may be granted
subject to such safety requirements as the Secretary of State thinks fit to
ensure the overall safety of the ship.

10.10

An exemption granted under paragraph (1), (2), (3), (5), (7) or (8) may, on
the giving of reasonable notice, be altered or cancelled.

10.11

An exemption granted under paragraph (1), (2), (3), (5), (7) or (8) or an
alteration or cancellation under paragraph (10), must—

10.11.a

be in writing;

10.11.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

10.11.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

10.12

The requirement that an exemption granted under paragraph (1), (2), (3), (5),
(7) or (8) or an alteration or cancellation under paragraph (10), be in
writing is satisfied where the text of the exemption, alteration or
cancellation is—

10.12.a

transmitted by electronic means;

10.12.b

received in legible form; and

10.12.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

10.13

Where an exemption is granted subject to safety requirements under paragraph
(9), the exemption ceases to have effect if those requirements are not
complied with.

10.14

For the purposes of this regulation, “ dangerous goods ” means dangerous goods
as defined in the Merchant Shipping (Dangerous Goods and Marine Pollutants)
Regulations 1997 .

#### Alternative design and arrangements

11

11.1

Fire safety design and arrangements for a ship to which either Part 2, Part 3,
Part 4 or Part 6 applies, may deviate from the requirements of—

11.1.a

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

11.1.b

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M);

11.1.c

Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M); or

11.1.d

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

which apply to it, provided that any alternative design and arrangement meets
the fire safety objectives and functional requirements contained in those
Merchant Shipping Notices and is approved by the Secretary of State.

11.2

Fire safety design and arrangements for a ship to which either Part 2, Part 3
or Part 5 applies, may deviate from the requirements of Parts B, C, D, E and G
of Chapter II-2 which apply to it, provided that the alternative design and
arrangements meet the fire safety objectives and functional requirements
contained in those Parts .

11.3

In relation to a ship to which paragraph (2) applies—

11.3.a

an alternative design or arrangement must be subjected to an engineering
analysis in accordance with regulation 17.3 of Chapter II-2 (alternative
design and arrangements – engineering analysis); and

11.3.b

a copy of the engineering analysis must be provided by the owner to the
Secretary of State.

11.4

In relation to the alternative design or arrangement and the engineering
analysis mentioned in paragraph (3), the Secretary of State—

11.4.a

must evaluate and, if satisfied that the requirements of regulation 17.3 of
Chapter II-2 are met, approve the engineering analysis; and

11.4.b

if satisfied that the alternative design or arrangement is at least as
effective as that required by Parts B, C, D, E or G of Chapter II-2, must
approve the alternative design or arrangement.

11.5

Where there are changes to the assumptions and operational restrictions that
were stipulated in the alternative design or arrangement mentioned in
paragraph (3)—

11.5.a

a further engineering analysis must be carried out which takes into account
the changed assumptions and operational restrictions; and

11.5.b

where the alternative design or arrangement requires amendment, this must be
evaluated and, if satisfied that such alternative design or arrangement is at
least as effective as that required by Parts B, C, D, E or G of Chapter II-2,
be approved by the Secretary of State.

11.6

An approval given under paragraph (1), (4) or (5) may, on the giving of
reasonable notice, be continued, altered or cancelled.

11.7

An approval given under paragraph (1), (4) or (5), or a continuation,
alteration or cancellation under paragraph (6), must—

11.7.a

be in writing;

11.7.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

11.7.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

11.8

The requirement that an approval given under paragraph (1), (4) or (5), or a
continuation, alteration or cancellation under paragraph (6), be in writing is
satisfied where the text of the approval, continuation, alteration or
cancellation is—

11.8.a

transmitted by electronic means;

11.8.b

received in legible form; and

11.8.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

11.9

A copy of an approval given under paragraph (1), (4) or (5), or a continuation
or alteration under paragraph (6), must be carried on board the ship.

### Fire protection requirements for ships constructed before 1st July 2002

#### Application

12

This Part applies to ships of Classes—

12.a

I, II, VII, VII(A), VII(T), VIII, VIII(T) and IX and engaged on international
voyages; and

12.b

II(A), VII(A), VIII(A), VIII(A)(T), IX, IX(A) and IX(A)(T) and engaged on non-
international voyages,

the keels of which were laid, or which were at a similar stage of
construction, before 1st July 2002.

#### Compliance by ships constructed before 1st July 2002

13

13.1

A ship must comply with each requirement in—

13.1.a

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M); and

13.1.b

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

that applies to it.

13.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a ship constructed before 26th May 1965
must comply with—

13.2.a

each condition specified in Schedule 1 to Merchant Shipping Notice 1670 (M)
Amendment 2;

13.2.b

each provision of Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M) listed in the Annex to
Schedule 1 to Merchant Shipping Notice 1670 (M) Amendment 2;

13.2.c

in the case of a passenger ship carrying 36 or fewer passengers, each
provision of Schedule 2 to Merchant Shipping Notice 1670 (M) Amendment 2; and

13.2.d

in the case of a passenger ship carrying more than 36 passengers, each of the
following requirements of Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M)—

13.2.d.i

paragraph 3.24 (fixed fire-extinguishing systems in machinery spaces of
category A);

13.2.d.ii

paragraph 3.40 (general emergency alarm to be provided in every Class I ship);

13.2.d.iii

paragraph 3.41 (public address system in every Class I ship); and

13.2.d.iv

paragraphs 7.3 to 7.76 (structural fire protection for passenger ships),

that applies to it.

13.3

A ship to which regulation 12(a) (ships constructed before 1st July 2002 and
engaged on international voyages) applies must comply with—

13.3.a

each requirement listed in regulation 1.2 of Part A of Chapter II-2
(applicable requirements to existing ships); and

13.3.b

each requirement of—

13.3.b.i

regulation 1.6 of Part A of Chapter II-2 (application of requirements to
tankers); and

13.3.b.ii

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2 (fire protection requirements) ,

that applies to it .

13.4

For the purposes of this regulation, where there is a conflict between the
requirements of—

13.4.a

the Merchant Shipping Notices described in paragraphs (1) and (2); and

13.4.b

the provisions of Chapter II-2 described in paragraph (3),

the provisions of Chapter II-2 take precedence.

### Fire protection requirements for ships constructed on or after 1st July 2002 and before 1st July 2012 engaged on international voyages

#### Application

14

This Part applies to ships of Classes I, II, VII, VII(T), VIII, VIII(T) and
IX, the keels of which were laid, or which were at a similar stage of
construction, on or after 1st July 2002 and before 1st July 2012, and engaged
on international voyages.

#### Compliance by ships constructed on or after 1st July 2002 and before 1st July 2012 and engaged on international voyages

15

15.1

A ship to which this Part applies must comply with each requirement in
Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M) that applies to it.

15.2

A ship to which this Part applies must comply with—

15.2.a

each requirement listed in regulation 1.2 of Part A of Chapter II-2
(applicable requirements to existing ships); and

15.2.b

each requirement of—

15.2.b.i

regulation 1.6 of Part A of Chapter II-2 (application of requirements to
tankers); and

15.2.b.ii

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2 (fire protection requirements),

that applies to it .

15.3

For the purposes of this regulation, where there is a conflict between the
requirements of—

15.3.a

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M); and

15.3.b

the provisions of Chapter II-2 described in paragraph (2),

the provisions of Chapter II-2 take precedence.

### Fire protection requirements for ships constructed on or after 1st July 2002 and engaged on non-international voyages

#### Application

16

This Part applies to ships of Classes II(A), VIII(A), VIII(A)(T), IX, IX(A)
and IX(A)(T), the keels of which were laid, or which were at a similar stage
of construction, on or after 1st July 2002 and engaged on non-international
voyages.

#### Compliance by ships constructed on or after 1st July 2002 and engaged on non-international voyages

17

A ship to which this Part applies must comply with each requirement in
Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M) that applies to it.

### Fire protection requirements for ships constructed on or after 1st July 2012 engaged on international voyages

#### Application

18

This Part applies to ships of Classes I, II, VII, VII(T), VIII, VIII(T) and
IX, the keels of which were laid, or which were at a similar stage of
construction, on or after 1st July 2012 and engaged on international voyages.

#### Compliance by ships constructed on or after 1st July 2012 and engaged on international voyages

19

19.1

A ship to which this Part applies must comply with each requirement in—

19.1.a

regulation 1.6 in Part A of Chapter II-2 (application of requirements to
tankers); and

19.1.b

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2 (fire protection requirements),

that applies to it.

19.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), requirements in Parts B, C, D, E and G
of Chapter II-2 which—

19.2.a

do not refer to a specific ship type, apply to ships of all types; and

19.2.b

refer to “tankers”, apply to tankers subject to the requirements in regulation
1.2.7 in Part A of Chapter II-2 (tankers constructed before 1st January 2016
to comply with regulation 16.3.3 of Chapter II-2, with the exception of
paragraph 3 of that provision).

### Fire protection requirements for ships of Classes XI and XII

#### Application

20

This Part applies to all ships of Classes XI and XII, whether engaged on
international or non-international voyages.

#### Compliance by ships of Classes XI and XII

21

A ship of Class XI or XII to which this Part applies must comply with each
requirement in—

21.a

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M); and

21.b

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

that applies to it.

### Enforcement

#### Offences and penalties

22

22.1

If a ship proceeds or attempts to proceed to sea or on any voyage, or arrives
within United Kingdom waters, in breach of any of the requirements applicable
to that ship in, or listed in, these Regulations, other than a matter to which
paragraph (3) applies, the owner and master are each guilty of an offence in
respect of each case of non-compliance.

22.2

An offence under paragraph (1) is punishable—

22.2.a

on summary conviction—

22.2.a.i

in England and Wales by a fine; or

22.2.a.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum;
or

22.2.b

on conviction on indictment by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or a fine, or both.

22.3

Any contravention of—

22.3.a

regulation 16.3.3.3 in Chapter II-2;

22.3.b

paragraph 5.4(c) in Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

22.3.c

paragraph 1.15 in Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M); or

22.3.d

paragraph 3.8 in Part A of Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M),

(which relate to the oxygen content of the inert gas supply) is an offence by
the master.

22.4

An offence under paragraph (3) is punishable—

22.4.a

in England and Wales by a fine; or

22.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum.

22.5

It is a defence for the person charged with an offence under this regulation
to prove that the person charged took all reasonable steps to avoid the
commission of the offence.

#### Detention

23

23.1

For the purposes of this regulation, any reference to “ the Act ” is a
reference to the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

23.2

Any ship which does not comply with the requirements of, or listed in—

23.2.a

these Regulations;

23.2.b

regulation 1.2 in Part A of Chapter II-2 (applicable requirements to existing
ships);

23.2.c

regulation 1.6 in Part A of Chapter II-2 (application of requirements to
tankers);

23.2.d

Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2 (fire protection requirements);

23.2.e

Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M);

23.2.f

Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M);

23.2.g

Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 (M); or

23.2.h

the relevant Merchant Shipping Notices,

applicable to that ship, may be detained in the United Kingdom.

23.3

Section 284 of the Act  (enforcing detention of ship) applies where a ship is
liable to be detained under this regulation as if—

23.3.a

references to detention of a ship under the Act were references to detention
of the ship in question under this regulation; and

23.3.b

subsection (7) were omitted.

23.4

Where a ship is liable to be detained under this regulation, the person
detaining the ship must serve on the master a detention notice which—

23.4.a

states the grounds for the detention; and

23.4.b

requires the terms of the notice to be complied with until the ship is
released by any person mentioned in section 284(1) of the Act.

23.5

Subject to paragraph (6), section 96 (references of detention notices to
arbitration)  and section 97 (compensation in connection with invalid
detention of a ship) of the Act apply in relation to a detention notice issued
pursuant to this regulation as they apply in relation to detention notices
issued pursuant to section 95 (power to detain dangerously unsafe ship) .

23.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5)—

23.6.a

section 96 of the Act applies as if—

23.6.a.i

subsection (3) were omitted;

23.6.a.ii

the words “as a dangerously unsafe ship” in subsection (5) were omitted;

23.6.a.iii

subsection (11) were omitted; and

23.6.b

sections 96 and 97 of the Act apply as if “ the relevant inspector ” means a
person issuing the detention notice pursuant to this regulation.

23.7

Subject to paragraph (8), where a ship other than a United Kingdom ship is
detained, the Secretary of State must immediately inform the ship’s flag
administration in writing.

23.8

If it is not possible to inform the ship’s flag administration in accordance
with paragraph (7), the Secretary of State must inform the Consul of the State
of the flag administration, or in the absence of a Consul, the nearest
diplomatic representative of the State of the flag administration.

23.9

For the purposes of paragraphs (7) and (8), “ flag administration ” in
relation to a ship means the administration of the State whose flag the ship
is entitled to fly.

#### Review of the Regulations

24

24.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

24.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations;
and

24.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

24.2

The first report must be published before the end of the period of five years
beginning with the date on which these Regulations come into force.

24.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding five years.

24.4

Section 30(3) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a review carried out under this regulation must, so far as is
reasonable, have regard to how the obligations under the Convention are
implemented in other countries which are subject to the obligations.

24.5

Section 30(4) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a report published under this regulation must, in particular—

24.5.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision
referred to in paragraph (1)(a);

24.5.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved;

24.5.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate; and

24.5.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way which involves less onerous regulatory provision.

24.6

In this regulation, “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(see section 32 of that Act).

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport       Vere
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport     24th May
2023             We consent to the making of these Regulations       Andrew
Stephenson   Scott Mann   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s
Treasury     23rd May 2023

Regulation 2

##### Amendments

###### The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships) Regulations 1998

1

The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships) Regulations 1998 are
amended as follows.

2

In regulation 1(7)(b)—

2.a

omit sub-paragraph (iv)(aa);

2.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (vii), insert—

;

2.b.viii

ships of war, naval auxiliary ships or other ships owned or operated by a
State and engaged only on governmental non-commercial service

.

3

In regulation 45 (application and special requirements)—

3.a

for paragraph (1), substitute—

3.a.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (2A), every passenger ship and every cargo ship
which is intended, or which contains cargo spaces which are intended, for the
carriage of dangerous goods, must comply with the protective requirements
prescribed in Merchant Shipping Notice 1669 (M) (Amendment 1).

;

3.b

in paragraph (2)(b), for “1.1 of regulation 54” substitute  “2.1 of regulation
19” ;

3.c

after paragraph (2), insert—

3.c.2A

A cargo ship of less than 500 tons engaged on international voyages
constructed on or after 1st February 1992 and before 1st July 2002, must
comply with paragraph 3 of regulation 19 of Chapter II-2 of the International
Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974, except that such a ship
constructed before 1st July 1998 is not required to comply with paragraphs
3.10.1 and 3.10.2 of that regulation.

;

3.d

after paragraph (4), insert—

3.d.5

In this regulation, any reference to Chapter II-2 of the International
Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974 (“ the Convention ”) is to be
construed—

3.d.5.a

as a reference to Chapter II-2 of the Convention as modified from time to
time; and

3.d.5.b

as, if Chapter II-2 of the Convention is replaced, a reference to the
replacement.

3.d.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5), Chapter II-2 of the Convention is modified
or replaced if the modification or replacement takes effect in accordance with
Article VIII of the Convention.

3.d.7

A modification or replacement of Chapter II-2 of the Convention has effect at
the time such modification or replacement comes into force in accordance with
Article VIII of the Convention.

.

###### The Merchant Shipping (Small Workboats and Pilot Boats) Regulations 1998

4

The Merchant Shipping (Small Workboats and Pilot Boats) Regulations 1998  are
amended as follows.

5

In the Schedule, in the table—

5.a

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships)
Regulations 1998, in the third column at the end, insert  “2023/568” ;

5.b

omit the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2003 ;

5.c

at the end—

5.c.i

in the first column, insert  “The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection)
Regulations 2023” ;

5.c.ii

in the second column, insert  “2023/568” ;

5.c.iii

in the third column, insert  “None” .

###### The Merchant Shipping (Vessels in Commercial Use for Sport or Pleasure) Regulations 1998

6

The Merchant Shipping (Vessels in Commercial Use for Sport or Pleasure)
Regulations 1998  are amended as follows.

7

In Schedule 1 (large vessels), in the table—

7.a

omit the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Large Ships)
Regulations 1998;

7.b

at the end—

7.b.i

in the first column, insert  “The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection)
Regulations 2023” ;

7.b.ii

in the second column, insert  “2023/568” ;

7.b.iii

in the third column, insert  “None” .

8

In Schedule 2 (small vessels), in the table—

8.a

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships)
Regulations 1998, in the third column at the end, insert  “2023/568” ;

8.b

omit the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2003;

8.c

at the end—

8.c.i

in the first column, insert  “The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection)
Regulations 2023” ;

8.c.ii

in the second column, insert  “2023/568” ;

8.c.iii

in the third column, insert  “None” .

###### The Merchant Shipping (Passenger Ships on Domestic Voyages) Regulations 2000

9

The Merchant Shipping (Passenger Ships on Domestic Voyages) Regulations 2000
are amended as follows.

10

Omit regulation 5(1)(f) (amendment).

11

In the Schedule, omit paragraph 5 (amendments).

###### The Civil Partnership Act 2004 (Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Order 2005

12

The Civil Partnership Act 2004 (Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Order
2005  is amended as follows.

13

In Schedule 15 (amendments to subordinate legislation relating to merchant
shipping), in the table omit the entries for—

13.a

the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Large Ships) Regulations 1998; and

13.b

the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2003.

###### The Merchant Shipping (Marine Equipment) Regulations 2016

14

The Merchant Shipping (Marine Equipment) Regulations 2016 are amended as
follows.

15

In Schedule 1 (amendment of regulations), omit paragraphs 4 and 10.

###### The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018

16

The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018  are amended as follows.

17

In Schedule 1 (fees under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995), in the table in
paragraph 5 (fees for inspections, etc) of Part 1 (surveys, inspections and
applications for exemption)—

17.a

in Section E (fire and life-saving)—

17.a.i

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships)
Regulations 1998, in the third column insert  “2023/568” ;

17.a.ii

omit the entries for the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Large Ships)
Regulations 1998 and the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2003;

17.a.iii

at the end—

17.a.iii.aa

in the first column, insert  “The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection)
Regulations 2023” ;

17.a.iii.bb

in the second column, insert  “2023/568” ;

17.a.iii.cc

in the third column, insert  “None” ;

17.b

in Section I (construction and equipment)—

17.b.i

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Small Workboats and Pilot Boats)
Regulations 1998, in the third column, after “2016/354” insert  “2023/568” ;

17.b.ii

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Vessels in Commercial Use for Sport or
Pleasure) Regulations 1998, in the third column, after “2018/242” insert
“2023/568” ;

17.b.iii

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Passenger Ships on Domestic Voyages)
Regulations 2000, in the third column, after “2018/53” insert  “2023/568” ;

17.b.iv

in the entry for the Merchant Shipping (Marine Equipment) Regulations 2016, in
the third column, for “None” substitute  “2023/568” .

##### Revocations

      Regulations revoked References Extent of revocation   The Merchant
Shipping (Fire Protection: Large Ships) Regulations 1998 S.I. 1998/1012 The
whole Regulations The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) (Amendment)
Regulations 1999 S.I. 1999/992 Part 1 The Merchant Shipping (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Regulations 2001 S.I. 2001/1638 Regulations 3 and 7 The Merchant
Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations 2003 S.I. 2003/2950 The whole
Regulations The Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection) Regulations (Amendment)
Regulations 2003 S.I. 2003/2951 Regulations 2 to 11 The Merchant Shipping
(Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendments etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 S.I.
2018/1221 Regulation 3(2)(c) and paragraph 6 in the Schedule

  Classification of ships

Regulation 4

        Passenger ships     Description of class of ship     Class I ships
engaged on voyages any of which are long international voyages; Class II ships
engaged only on short international voyages; Class II(A)     ships engaged on
voyages of any kind other than international voyages, which are not—       (i)
ships of Classes III to VI(A) as defined in the Merchant Shipping (Passenger
Ship Construction: Ships of Classes III to VI(A)) Regulations 1998 ;
(ii) ships of Classes A, B, C or D as defined in the Merchant Shipping
(Passenger Ships on Domestic Voyages) Regulations 2000 and engaged on domestic
voyages for the purposes of those Regulations;     Class III ships engaged
only on voyages in the course of which they are at no time more than 70 miles
by sea from their point of departure and not more than 18 miles from the coast
of the United Kingdom, and which are at sea only in favourable weather and
during restricted periods; Class IV ships engaged only on voyages in Category
A, B, C or D waters; Class V ships engaged only on voyages in Category A, B or
C waters; Class VI ships engaged only on voyages with not more than 250
passengers on board, to sea, or in Category A, B, C or D waters, in all cases
in favourable weather and during restricted periods, in the course of which
the ships are at no time more than 15 miles, exclusive of any Category A, B, C
or D waters, from their point of departure nor more than 3 miles from land;
Class VI(A) ships carrying not more than 50 passengers for a distance of not
more than 6 miles on voyages to or from isolated communities on the islands or
coast of the United Kingdom, and which do not proceed for a distance of more
than 3 miles from land;   Non-passenger ships     Description of class of ship
Class VII ships, other than ships of Classes I, VII(A), VII(T), XI and XII,
engaged on voyages any of which are long international voyages; Class VII(A)
ships employed as fish processing or canning factory ships, and ships engaged
in the carriage of persons employed in the fish processing or canning
industries; Class VII(T) tankers engaged on voyages any of which are long
international voyages; Class VIII ships, other than ships of Classes II,
VIII(T), IX, XI and XII, engaged only on short international voyages; Class
VIII(A) ships, other than ships of Classes II(A) to VI(A) inclusive,
VIII(A)(T), IX, IX(A), IX(A)(T), XI and XII, engaged only on voyages which are
not international voyages; Class VIII(T) tankers engaged on voyages any of
which are short international voyages; Class VIII(A)(T) tankers engaged only
on voyages which are not international voyages; Class IX tugs and tenders,
other than ships of Classes II, II(A), III, VI and VI(A), which proceed to sea
but are not engaged on long international voyages; Class IX(A) ships, other
than ships of Classes IV to VI inclusive, which do not proceed to sea; Class
IX(A)(T) tankers which do not proceed to sea; Class XI sailing ships, other
than fishing vessels and ships of Class XII, which proceed to sea; Class XII
pleasure vessels of 13.7 metres in length or over.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations implement amendments to Chapter II-2 of the International
Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (“ the Convention ”) relating
to fire protection, fire detection and fire extinction, and also make
provision in respect of ships to which the Convention does not apply. The
Regulations revoke and replace the Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Large
Ships) Regulations 1998 ( S.I. 1998/1012 ), the Merchant Shipping (Fire
Protection) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/2950 ) and the provisions that amend
both sets of Regulations.

  The Regulations contain requirements relating to a ship’s structural fire
protection and apply to ships that may be on international or non-
international voyages. They deal separately with ships constructed before 1st
July 2002 (Part 2), ships constructed between 1st July 2002 and before 1st
July 2012 engaged on international voyages (Part 3), ships constructed on or
after 1st July 2002 and engaged on non-international voyages (Part 4), ships
constructed on or after 1st July 2012 engaged on international voyages (Part
5) and ships of Classes XI and XII (Part 6).

  The Regulations apply, with certain limited exceptions, to United Kingdom
ships and to non-United Kingdom ships in United Kingdom waters, including
ships from countries which are not parties to the Convention. They apply to
passenger ships of Classes I, II and II(A), and to non-passenger ships of
Classes VII, VII(A), VII(T), VIII, VIII(A), VIII(T), VIII(A)(T), IX, IX(A),
IX(A)(T), XI and XII. These classes of ship are defined in Schedule 2.

  The Regulations implement all amendments to Chapter II-2 as at the date on
which this instrument comes into force. All future amendments to the
provisions listed in regulation 1.2 of Part A (applicable requirements to
existing ships) and regulation 1.6 of Part A (application of requirements to
tankers), and Parts B, C, D, E and G, of Chapter II-2 (fire protection
requirements), will be automatically incorporated into the Regulations by way
of the ambulatory reference provision in regulation 6.

  The Regulations provide for repairs, alterations, modifications and
outfitting (regulation 7), the approval of equipment and arrangements for fire
protection, fire detection and fire extinction (regulation 8), equivalents
(regulation 9) and the granting of exemptions (regulation 10). The Secretary
of State may also approve alternative design and arrangements for ships
(regulation 11).

  The detail of the requirements for ships constructed before 1st July 2002
(whether engaged on international or non-international voyages) is contained
in Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M), which is given statutory force by these
Regulations (regulation 13). Particular standards referred to in Merchant
Shipping Notice 1900 (M) are contained in Merchant Shipping Notices 1665 (M),
1666 (M), 1667 (M), 1668 (M) and 1669 (M), which are also given statutory
force by these Regulations (regulation 13). Some of the provisions listed in
regulation 1.2, and some of the provisions contained in regulation 1.6 of Part
A and in Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2, also apply to ships
constructed before 1st July 2002; these requirements are implemented by
regulation 13.

  The detail of the requirements for ships constructed on or after 1st July
2002 and before 1st July 2012 and engaged on international voyages are
contained in Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M) (regulation 15). Some of the
provisions listed in regulation 1.2, and some of the provisions contained in
regulation 1.6 of Part A and in Parts B, C, D, E and G of Chapter II-2, also
apply to ships constructed on or after 1st July 2002 and before 1st July 2012;
these requirements are implemented by regulation 15.

  The detail of the requirements for ships constructed on or after 1st July
2002 engaged on non-international voyages is contained in Merchant Shipping
Notice 1902 (regulation 17).

  The detail of the requirements for passenger ships and cargo ships
constructed on or after 1st July 2012, which are engaged on international
voyages, is contained in regulation 1.6 of Part A and Parts B, C, D, E and G
of Chapter II-2 (fire protection requirements) by direct reference to the
convention requirements (regulation 19). Separate provision is also made in
regulation 21 for ships of Class XI (sailing ships (other than fishing vessels
and ships of Class XII) which proceed to sea) and Class XII (pleasure vessels
of 13.7 metres in length or over but excluding pleasure vessels to which the
Merchant Shipping (Fire Protection: Small Ships) Regulations 1998 ( S.I.
1998/1011 ) apply); the detail of the requirements applicable to them is
contained in Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M).

  The Regulations also provide that where any ship is used in contravention of
the requirements of these Regulations, this is an offence by the owner and
master of the ship (regulation 22), except in the case of a specified
contravention relating to the operation of the inert gas system (regulation
22(3)), which is an offence by the master alone. Regulation 23 provides for
the detention of ships that do not comply with the Regulations.

  Regulation 24 requires the Secretary of State to review the operation and
effect of the Regulations and publish a report before the end of the period of
five years beginning with the date on which the Regulations come into force,
and at intervals not exceeding five years after that. Following a review, it
will fall to the Secretary of State to consider whether the Regulations should
remain as they are, or be amended or revoked. A further instrument would be
needed to amend or revoke the Regulations.

  Guidance on Merchant Shipping Notice 1900 (M) is contained in Marine
Guidance Note 666 (M) and guidance on Merchant Shipping Notice 1901 (M) and
Merchant Shipping Notice 1902 is contained in Marine Guidance Note 667 (M).
Merchant Shipping Notices 1900 (M), 1901 (M) and 1902 (M) also contain
guidance on the content of each Merchant Shipping Notice and its relationship
with the Regulations.

  All Merchant Shipping Notices referred to in these Regulations are available
from the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) of Spring Place, 105 Commercial
Road, Southampton SO15 1EG (telephone 020 3817 2000 and email
infoline@mcga.gov.uk ) and on
https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/maritime-and-coastguard-agency .

  The Convention and its Protocol of 1988 may be obtained in copy from the
International Maritime Organization (IMO), 4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR
and both are available on the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
(FCDO) treaties database (
https://treaties.fco.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch ). The text of
the IMO Resolutions amending the Convention and Protocol may be obtained from
the IMO, or on the FCDO treaties database (
https://treaties.fco.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch ).

  Future amendments to the Convention and to the Protocol may be obtained in
copy from the IMO and, after coming into force in the United Kingdom, found on
the FCDO treaties database (
https://treaties.fco.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch ). Until such
publication is made on the FCDO treaties database, an amendment will be
available from the MCA and on  https://www.gov.uk . An amendment will be
publicised in advance of its in-force date by means of a Parliamentary
Statement to both Houses of Parliament and by way of a Marine Guidance Note,
which will be available in copy from the MCA and on  https://www.gov.uk .

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as the
Regulations relate to the updating and maintenance of existing regulatory
standards and no, or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or
public sector is foreseen.

  An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside the instrument on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

