Title: The Social Security (Contributions) (Rates, Limits and Thresholds Amendments and National Insurance Funds Payments) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-07-02
Description: These Regulations amend the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 (c. 4) and corresponding provisions in the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 (c. 7) (“the Acts”) the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 (S.I. 2001/1004) (“the Contributions Regulations”) and the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 (c. 9) (“the NICA 2022”). The amendments have effect from 6th April 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/236

## The Social Security (Contributions) (Rates, Limits and Thresholds Amendments and National Insurance Funds Payments) Regulations 2023

    Social Security

  Made   1st March 2023

  Coming into force   6th April 2023

      These Regulations are made by the Treasury, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 5(1) and (4) to (6), 9A(7) and (8), 9B(4) and (5) and
175(3) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992  (“ the
Contributions Act ”), sections 5(1) and (4) to (6), 9A(7) and (8), 9B(4) and
(5) and 171(3) and (10) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992  (“ the Northern Ireland Contributions Act ”),
sections 141(4) and 142(2) and (3) of the Social Security Administration Act
1992  (“ the Administration Act ”), section 129 of the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992  (“ the Northern Ireland
Administration Act ”), section 2(2) and (3) of the Social Security Act 1993
(“ the 1993 Act ”), article 4(3) and (4) of the Social Security (Northern
Ireland) Order 1993  (“ the 1993 Order ”) and section 8(4) to (8) of the
National Insurance Contributions Act 2022  (“the NICA 2022”).
Regulations 3 and 4 are made as a result of the Treasury carrying out in the
tax year 2022-23 a review of the general level of earnings in Great Britain in
accordance with section 141(1) and (2) of the Administration Act .       The
Treasury have determined that, in relation to Great Britain, regulations 3 and
4 should be made under section 141 of the Administration Act to amend Part 1
of the Contributions Act by altering the rate of, and the lower profits
threshold for, Class 2 contributions and the amount of a Class 3 contribution.
Regulations 3 and 4 make provision for Northern Ireland which corresponds to
that mentioned in relation to Great Britain in the preceding recital, in
accordance with section 129 of the Northern Ireland Administration Act.
With a view to adjusting the level at which the National Insurance Fund stands
for the time being and having regard to estimated benefit expenditure for the
financial year ending with 31st March 2024, the Treasury think it expedient
that regulation 7 should be made under section 2(2) of the 1993 Act.
With a view to adjusting the level at which the Northern Ireland National
Insurance Fund stands for the time being and having regard to estimated
benefit expenditure for the financial year ending with 31st March 2024, the
Treasury think it expedient that regulation 8 should be made under article
4(3) of the 1993 Order.           A draft of these Regulations was laid before
Parliament in accordance with the provisions of section 176(1)(za), (zb) and
(a) of the Contributions Act , section 172(11ZA), (11ZB) and (11A) of the
Northern Ireland Contributions Act , sections 141(3) and 190(1)(a) of the
Administration Act , section 166(10A) of the Northern Ireland Administration
Act , section 2(8) of the 1993 Act, article 4(8) of the 1993 Order  and
section 12(2) of the NICA 2022 and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Contributions) (Rates,
Limits and Thresholds Amendments and National Insurance Funds Payments)
Regulations 2023 and come into force on 6th April 2023.

### Rates, limits and thresholds for National Insurance contributions

#### Interpretation

2

In this Part—

      “ the Act ” means the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act
1992; and           “ the Northern Ireland Act ” means the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992.

#### Rate of and lower profits threshold for Class 2 contributions

3

In section 11 of the Act  and the Northern Ireland Act  (Class 2
contributions)—

3.a

in subsections (2) and (6) for “£3.15” substitute  “£3.45” ; and

3.b

in subsection (4)(a) (lower profits threshold) for “£11,908” substitute
“£12,570” .

#### Amount of a Class 3 contribution

4

In section 13(1) of the Act  and the Northern Ireland Act  (Class 3
contributions) for “£15.85” substitute  “£17.45” .

#### Amendment to the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001

5

In regulation 10 of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001
(earnings limits and thresholds) in the introductory words for “2022”
substitute  “2023” .

#### Amendments to the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022

6

In section 8 of the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 (upper secondary
threshold for earnings: freeport tax site employees and armed forces
veterans)—

6.a

in subsection (1) for “year beginning with 6 April 2022” substitute  “years
beginning with 6 April 2022 and 6 April 2023” ; and

6.b

in subsection (2) for “and 6 April 2022” substitute  “, 6 April 2022 and 6
April 2023” .

### National Insurance Funds

#### Prescribed percentage of estimated benefit expenditure – Great Britain

7

Section 2(2) of the Social Security Act 1993 (payments into National Insurance
Fund out of money provided by Parliament) has effect with respect to the tax
year 2023-24 and the prescribed percentage of estimated benefit expenditure
for the financial year ending with 31st March in that tax year shall be 5 per
cent.

#### Prescribed percentage of estimated benefit expenditure – Northern Ireland

8

Article 4(3) of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order 1993 (payments
into Northern Ireland National Insurance Fund out of appropriated money) has
effect with respect to the tax year 2023-24 and the prescribed percentage of
estimated benefit expenditure for the financial year ending with 31st March in
that tax year shall be 5 per cent.

      Andrew Stephenson   Steve Double   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty’s Treasury     1st March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act
1992 (c. 4)  and corresponding provisions in the Social Security Contributions
and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 7)  (“ the Acts ”) the Social
Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/1004 ) (“ the
Contributions Regulations ”) and the National Insurance Contributions Act
2022 (c. 9)  (“the NICA 2022”). The amendments have effect from 6th April
2023.

  Regulation 3 increases the rate at which Class 2 National Insurance
contributions (“NICs”) are payable by self-employed earners, specified in
section 11(2) and (6) of the Acts, from £3.15 to £3.45 per week. It also
increases the lower profits threshold specified in section 11(4)(a) of the
Acts, which is the threshold at which liability to pay Class 2 NICs begins,
from £11,908 to £12,570 per year.

  Regulation 4 increases the amount of voluntary Class 3 NICs, specified in
section 13(1) of the Acts, from £15.85 to £17.45.

  Regulation 5 maintains at the same level as the previous year the weekly
earnings limits and thresholds specified in regulation 10 of the Contributions
Regulations, which are used for determining liability to Class 1 NICs and
entitlement to associated state benefits.

  Regulation 6 maintains at the same level as the previous year the upper
secondary thresholds for earnings, and the prescribed equivalents for earners
paid otherwise than weekly, for freeport tax site employees and armed forces
veterans, specified in section 8 of the NICA 2022.

  Regulation 7 provides for section 2(2) of the Social Security Act  1993 (c.
3)  to have effect for the tax year 2023-24. This allows money provided by
Parliament to be paid into the National Insurance Fund up to a limit of 5 per
cent of the estimated benefit expenditure for the financial year ending with
31st March 2024. Regulation 8 makes corresponding provision for Northern
Ireland, by giving effect to article 4(3) of the Social Security (Northern
Ireland) Order 1993 ( S.I. 1993/592 (N.I. 2)) .

  In accordance with section 142(1) of the Social Security Administration Act
1992 (c. 5)  a copy of the report by the Government Actuary, giving the
Actuary’s opinion on the likely effect on the National Insurance Fund of the
making of these Regulations, was laid before Parliament with the draft of
these Regulations. A copy of the report can be found at
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/uk-social-security-short-term-and-
long-term-reports ; this is also available to purchase from the TSO Shop on
their website at  https://www.tsoshop.co.uk/  or by telephone on 0333 202
5070.

  A Tax Information and Impact Note has not been prepared for this instrument
as it gives effect to previously announced policy and it relates to routine
changes to rates, limits and thresholds. A Tax Information and Impact Note
covering NICs thresholds and related changes to income tax thresholds
(remaining at 2022-23 levels until 2027-28) is available at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-personal-allowance-and-basic-
rate-limit-for-income-tax-and-certain-national-insurance-contributions-nics-
thresholds-from-6-april-2026-to-5-apr/income-tax-personal-allowance-and-the-
basic-rate-limit-and-certain-national-insurance-contributions-thresholds-
from-6-april-2026-to-5-april-2028  .

