Title: The Value Added Tax (Margin Schemes and Removal or Export of Goods: VAT-related Payments) Order 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order makes provision for a VAT-related payment to be made in respect of a relevant supply (“relevant supply”) of goods of a description specified in the Order. The Order specifies a relevant supply of a motor vehicle subject to certain conditions. This Order comes into force on 1st May 2023 and has effect in relation to goods removed to Northern Ireland or exported to the EU on or after that date.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/68

## The Value Added Tax (Margin Schemes and Removal or Export of Goods: VAT-related Payments) Order 2023

    Value Added Tax

  Made   24th January 2023

  Laid before the House of Commons   25th January 2023

  Coming into force   1st May 2023

      The Treasury, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 50B(1) and
(5) to (7) of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 , make the following Order:

### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Value Added Tax (Margin Schemes and Removal or
Export of Goods: VAT-related Payments) Order 2023 and comes into force on 1st
May 2023.

1.2

This Order has effect in relation to goods removed to Northern Ireland , or
exported, on or after 1 May 2023.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ VATA ” means the Value Added Tax Act 1994; “ claim ” means claim for a VAT-
related payment  under this Order; “ prescribed period ” has the meaning given
in article 8(5).

2.2

For the purposes of this Order a person is only to be treated as having a
business establishment in the United Kingdom if that establishment has a
permanent presence of both the human and technical resources necessary for the
provision of the taxable supplies for which that business is required to
account as a taxable person .

2.3

Where, in this Order, the Commissioners  are empowered to make provision by
way of a direction—

2.3.a

they may make different provision for different cases and so a direction may
be made generally or for a particular case or class of cases; and

2.3.b

a direction may be published in a public notice or addressed to an individual
as the Commissioners think fit .

### VAT-related payments

3

A person is entitled, on making a claim, to a VAT-related payment in respect
of a relevant supply  of a description specified in article 4.

4

4.1

The supply specified for the purposes of article 3 is a relevant supply of a
motor vehicle (“the vehicle”) which meets the conditions specified in
paragraph (2).

4.2

The conditions specified in this paragraph are that—

4.2.a

the vehicle is not an excluded good;

4.2.b

the vehicle has been removed to Northern Ireland or exported to a member
State; and

4.2.c

the person who took possession of the vehicle in Great Britain or the Isle of
Man is—

4.2.c.i

in a case where the vehicle is removed to Northern Ireland, registered under
VATA  at the time of the removal; or

4.2.c.ii

in a case where the vehicle is exported to a member State, identified by that
member State as being taxable in that member State  at the time of the export.

4.3

In this article—

“antique” and “collectors’ item” have the meanings given in article 2 of the
Value Added Tax (Special Provisions) Order 1995 ; “ excluded good ” means a
good which is an antique, collectors’ item or work of art; “ motor vehicle ”
means a mechanically propelled vehicle which is registered under either the
Vehicle and Excise and Registration Act 1994  or the Licensing and
Registration of Vehicles Act 1985 of the Isle of Man ; “ work of art ” has the
meaning given in section 21(6) of VATA .

### VAT-related payment: consideration for supply

5

5.1

Where the consideration for a relevant supply of goods (the goods) is more
than the value of the goods at the time of their removal to Northern Ireland
or export, section 50B(4) of VATA applies to that supply as if the
consideration for the supply is the value of the goods at the time of their
removal or export.

5.2

The value of the goods at the time of their removal or export is to be taken
to be the amount that would be payable as consideration if the goods were to
be supplied at that time between two persons who were standing in no such
relationship with each other as would affect that consideration.

### Payment representative

6

6.1

The Commissioners may, as a condition of allowing a claim under article 8 (a
claim) to be paid, direct that a non-established claimant must appoint a
person to act as a payment representative on that claimant’s behalf in
relation to that claim.

6.2

A non-established claimant may, with the agreement of the Commissioners,
appoint a person as a payment representative to act on that claimant’s behalf
in relation to a claim.

6.3

A payment representative is —

6.3.a

entitled to act on behalf of the principal for any purpose connected with a
claim; and

6.3.b

jointly and severally liable with the principal for any liability resulting
from a claim being incorrect.

6.4

A person may only be appointed as a payment representative under paragraph (1)
or (2) if that person is registered under VATA and has a business
establishment in the United Kingdom.

6.5

A payment representative is not by virtue of sub-paragraph (3)(b) guilty of
any offence except in so far as—

6.5.a

the payment representative has consented to, or connived in, the commission of
the offence by the principal; or

6.5.b

the commission of the offence by the principal is attributable to any neglect
on the part of the payment representative.

6.6

The Commissioners may direct the manner and circumstances in which a person is
to be appointed as a payment representative and a direction may include such
provision as the Commissioners think fit for the maintenance of a register of
the names of payment representatives recorded against the names of their
principals.

6.7

Where the Commissioners have made a direction under paragraph (1), the person
(P) to whom the notice is addressed must not be treated as having been
directed to appoint a payment representative unless the Commissioners have
either—

6.7.a

served a notice of the direction on P; or

6.7.b

taken all such other steps as appear to them to be reasonable for bringing the
direction to the attention of P.

6.8

In this article—

“ non-established claimant ” means a person who— does not have a business
establishment in the United Kingdom; and does not have an appointed VAT
representative ; “ payment representative ” means a person appointed in
accordance with paragraph (1) or (2); “ principal ” in relation to a payment
representative means the non-established claimant on whose behalf that payment
representative has been appointed.

### Method of claiming

7

7.1

A taxable person who has a business establishment in the United Kingdom and
who makes a claim must make it by accounting for it in that person’s VAT
return as if it were input tax  incurred on the relevant supply at the
relevant time .

7.2

Accordingly, any provision made by or under any enactment that applies to
input tax applies to a claim made under paragraph (1), as if that claim were
accounting for input tax.

7.3

A person to whom paragraph (1) does not apply must make a claim in accordance
with article 8.

8

8.1

A person making a claim under this article (the claim) must—

8.1.a

make it in the form and manner; and

8.1.b

furnish such information or supporting documentation;

as the Commissioners direct.

8.2

The claim—

8.2.a

must be made in respect of the prescribed period in which the relevant time
applicable to the relevant supply occurs; and

8.2.b

may not be made if a period of more than 4 years has elapsed since the end of
the prescribed period during which the relevant time applicable to the
relevant supply occurred.

8.3

Save as the Commissioners otherwise direct, no more than 4 claims may be made
in respect of a prescribed period.

8.4

The claim may not be made for a period of less than 3 months and may not be
made for a longer period than a prescribed period, provided that the claim may
be made for a period of less than 3 months where either—

8.4.a

that period represents the final part of a prescribed period; or

8.4.b

a prescribed period is a period of less than 3 months.

8.5

Subject to paragraph (6), a prescribed period is a period of 12 months
beginning on the first day of the month specified by the Commissioners in a
direction.

8.6

The Commissioners may direct that a prescribed period is a period of less than
or more than 12 months.

### Error correction

9

9.1

This article applies where a person (P) has made a claim under article 8 which
has overstated or understated P’s entitlement to a VAT-related payment (the
entitlement).

9.2

Where P has overstated the entitlement P must account for the overstatement in
the form and manner directed by the Commissioners and by the earlier of the
following—

9.2.a

the date on which P next makes a claim after the overstatement comes to P’s
knowledge; or

9.2.b

the end of the prescribed period in which the overstatement comes to P’s
knowledge.

9.3

Where P has understated the entitlement P may make a claim under article 8 for
the amount understated. The claim for the understatement may be made solely in
connection with the amount understated or combined with a claim for a further
VAT-related payment.

9.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply if a period of 4 years has elapsed since
the end of the prescribed period during which the relevant time applicable to
the relevant supply which is the subject of the accounting under paragraph (2)
or the claim under paragraph (3) occurs.

### Denomination of payment and deduction of bank charges

10

10.1

This article applies where a VAT-related payment is made as a result of a
claim under article 8.

10.2

The payment must be made in pounds sterling.

10.3

Where the payment is to be made to a person in a country other than the United
Kingdom, the Commissioners may reduce the amount of the payment by the amount
of any bank charges or costs incurred as a result thereof.

### Records

11

11.1

A person who makes a claim must keep such records as the Commissioners may
direct.

11.2

The records which are required to be maintained under paragraph (1) must be
preserved—

11.2.a

in the form and manner directed by the Commissioners; and

11.2.b

for such period as the Commissioners may direct not exceeding 6 years
beginning with the date of the claim to which they relate.

### Application of Schedule 36 to the Finance Act 2008

12

Schedule 36 to the Finance Act 2008  (information and inspection powers)
applies as if the reference to any tax in paragraph 64(1) of that Schedule
includes a reference to a claim made under article 8.

### Offences

13

13.1

Section 72 of VATA  (offences) applies with the following modifications.

13.2

Subsections (1) and (8) apply as if any references in those subsections—

13.2.a

to the evasion of VAT include a reference to the obtaining of a VAT-related
payment under article 8; and

13.2.b

to the amount of the VAT are references, in relation to the obtaining of a
VAT-related payment, to the amount falsely claimed by way of the claim made
under article 8.

13.3

Anything done for the purposes of a claim under article 8, including the
production, furnishing or sending of any document and the furnishing of any
information or any statement in relation to such a claim, is to be treated as
being done for the purposes of VATA.

13.4

Subsection (5) applies as if the reference to a refund under section 35 or 36
of VATA includes a reference to a VAT-related payment under article 8.

### Penalties for errors

14

14.1

Schedule 24 to the Finance Act 2007  (penalties for errors) (the Schedule)
applies to a claim made under article 8 (the claim) with the following
modifications.

14.2

Part 1(liability for penalty) applies as if—

14.2.a

the claim, including any return, statement or declaration made in connection
with the claim, is a document of a kind listed in the Table in paragraph 1 of
the Schedule;

14.2.b

the claim concerns a repayment of VAT; and

14.2.c

references to an assessment include an assessment under article 15;

and other Parts of the Schedule apply in accordance with these modifications.

14.3

References in the Schedule to a tax period include references to a prescribed
period.

### Assessment: overclaims

15

15.1

Where a person has made a claim under article 8 and, as a result of that
claim, an amount has been paid or credited to that person which ought not to
have been paid or credited, or which would not have been so paid or credited
had the facts been known or been as they later turn out to be, the
Commissioners may assess that amount to the best of their judgment and notify
it to that person.

15.2

An assessment under paragraph (1) must, subject to paragraph (4), be made
within the time limit provided for in paragraph (3) and must not be made after
the later of the following—

15.2.a

2 years after the end of the prescribed period in which the claim was paid or
credited; or

15.2.b

one year after evidence of facts, sufficient in the opinion of the
Commissioners to justify the making of an assessment, comes to their
knowledge,

but (subject to paragraph (3)) where such further evidence comes to the
Commissioners’ knowledge after the making of an assessment under paragraph
(1), another assessment may be made under that paragraph, in addition to any
earlier assessment.

15.3

Subject to paragraph (4), an assessment under paragraph (1) must not be made
more than 4 years after the end of the prescribed period in which the claim
was paid or credited.

15.4

Subsections (4) to (4B) of section 77 of VATA  (assessments: time limits and
supplementary assessments) apply to an assessment under paragraph (1) as if
the references to a loss of VAT included references to a payment or crediting
of a claim or part of a claim under article 8 which was not due to the
claimant.

15.5

Paragraph (6) applies, subject to the provisions of VATA as to appeals which
are applied by article 17, where an assessment has been made and notified to
any person under paragraph (1).

15.6

Where this paragraph applies—

15.6.a

the assessment is to be paid in the form and manner directed by the
Commissioners; and

15.6.b

paragraph 5 of Schedule 11 (administration, collection and enforcement:
recovery of VAT etc.) to VATA  applies to the amount assessed as if it is VAT
due from the person assessed.

### Set-off

16

In any case where—

16.a

an amount is due from the Commissioners to a person (P) under article 8; and

16.b

P is liable to pay a sum by way of an assessment under this Order, or a
penalty under—

16.b.i

VATA;

16.b.ii

Schedule 24 to the Finance Act 2007; or

16.b.iii

Schedule 36 to the Finance Act 2008;

the amount referred to in paragraph (a) is set-off against the sum referred to
in paragraph (b) and, accordingly, to the extent of the set-off, the
obligations of the Commissioners and P are discharged.

### Interest

16A

For the purposes of section 102 of the Finance Act 2009 , in the case of an
amount which is payable by virtue of a claim under article 8, the repayment
interest start date is the last day of a period of 4 months beginning on the
day on which that claim is made.

### Certain amounts of repayment interest recoverable as late payment interest

16B

16B.1

In this article and article 16C “late payment interest” and “repayment
interest” have the meanings given in section 104(1) of the Finance Act 2009.

16B.2

Where each of conditions A to C specified in paragraph (3) is met, an amount
of repayment interest that—

16B.2.a

has been paid to a person, but

16B.2.b

ought not to have been paid (see condition C),

may be recovered from that person as if it were late payment interest.

16B.3

16B.3.a

Condition A is that the repayment interest has been paid to the person in
respect of a claim under article 8;

16B.3.b

Condition B is that (whether or not a previous assessment has been made) an
assessment or amendment of an assessment is made to recover an amount paid
under article 3 by virtue of the claim;

16B.3.c

Condition C is that, as a result of the assessment or amendment of the
assessment, it appears to the Commissioners  that some or all of the repayment
interest ought not to have been paid.

### Interest: common period rules for VAT-related payments

16C

16C.1

This paragraph applies where there is a common period in relation to a person.

16C.2

A common period in relation to a person is any period during which—

16C.2.a

an amount which relates to a claim under article 8 and which carries late
payment interest is due and payable by the person (“the overdue payment”); and

16C.2.b

an amount which relates to a claim under article 8 and which carries repayment
interest is payable to the person (“the credit”).

16C.3

During the common period—

16C.3.a

the overdue payment is to be treated as carrying late payment interest only on
the amount (if any) by which the overdue payment exceeds the credit; and

16C.3.b

the credit is to be treated as carrying repayment interest only on the amount
(if any) by which the credit exceeds the overdue payment.

### Recovery of Interest

16D

Section 77ZA of VATA applies in relation to interest charged under section 101
of the Finance Act 2009 on an amount paid by virtue of a claim under article 8
as if references in that section to an amount of VAT included references to an
amount of a VAT-related payment .

### Appeals

17

17.1

An appeal lies to a tribunal  in respect of the following—

17.1.a

the amount of a VAT-related payment pursuant to a claim under article 8; and

17.1.b

an assessment under article 15.

17.2

Part 5 of VATA  (reviews and appeals), and any orders or regulations made
under that Part, apply for the purposes of this Order subject to the following
modifications—

17.2.a

an appeal under paragraph (1) is to be treated as an appeal which lies to the
tribunal under section 83(1) of VATA but not under any particular paragraph of
that subsection; and

17.2.b

section 84 of VATA is to apply as if subsections (3) and (4) of that section
include a reference to appeals against decisions relating to matters mentioned
in sub-paragraphs (1)(a) and (b).

Steve Double Andrew Stephenson Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s
Treasury 24th January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision for a VAT-related payment to be made in respect
of a relevant supply (“relevant supply”) of goods of a description specified
in the Order. The Order specifies a relevant supply of a motor vehicle subject
to certain conditions. This Order comes into force on 1st May 2023 and has
effect in relation to goods removed to Northern Ireland or exported to the EU
on or after that date.

  Section 50B (“ section 50B ”) of the Value Added Tax Act  1994 (c. 23)  (“
VATA ”) allows the Treasury, by order, to provide that on making a claim a
person (“ the claimant ”) is entitled to a VAT-related payment in respect of a
relevant supply of goods of a description specified in the order. What
constitutes a relevant supply, and the amount of the VAT-related payment, are
defined in section 50B.

  This Order specifies that a VAT-related payment may be made in respect of a
relevant supply of a motor vehicle which meets the conditions specified in the
Order. It makes provision about the amount of the VAT-related payment and the
administration of claims including provisions about record keeping,
assessment, interest, set-off and appeals. This Order also applies, with
modifications, legislation relating to offences and penalties for errors.

  Article 1 makes provision about citation, commencement and application.

  Article 2 makes provision about the interpretation of the Order.

  Article 3 provides that a person is entitled to a VAT-related payment in
respect of a relevant supply of a description specified in article 4.

  Article 4 specifies the relevant supply of a motor vehicle which is not an
excluded good (as defined in article 2) and which has either been removed to
Northern Ireland or exported to a member State. If the motor vehicle is
removed to Northern Ireland the claimant must be registered under VATA. If the
motor vehicle is exported to a member State the claimant must be registered
for the purposes of that member State’s VAT regime.

  Article 5 provides that the amount of the VAT-related payment, in
circumstances where the consideration for the relevant supply is more than the
value of the goods at the time of their removal to Northern Ireland or export,
is to be calculated by reference to the value of the goods at the time of that
removal or export.

  Article 6 makes provision for the appointment of a representative (“the
representative”) to act on behalf of the claimant where the claimant does not
have either a business establishment in the UK (as defined in the Order) or a
VAT representative appointed under section 48 of VATA. The article provides
for the representative to be jointly and severally liable with the claimant
for any liability resulting from an incorrect claim and also provides that the
Commissioners for Revenue and Customs (“ the Commissioners ”) may require the
appointment of a representative as a condition of making a VAT-related
payment.

  Article 7 provides that a claimant who is registered under VATA and who has
a business establishment in the United Kingdom must make a claim for a VAT-
related payment by accounting for it in that claimant’s VAT return as if it
were input tax incurred on the relevant supply of the goods which are the
subject of the claim. The article also provides that legislation which is
relevant to input tax claims and to supplies which are the subject of input
tax claims applies in relation to claims for VAT-related payments and to the
supplies which are the subject of those claims.

  Article 8 provides that a claimant to whom article 7 does not apply must
make a claim for a VAT-related payment in such form and manner, and provide
such documentation, as the Commissioners may direct. The article makes
provision for a claim under this article to be made by reference to a
prescribed period of 12 months commencing on the first day of the month
specified by the Commissioners in a direction. The Commissioners also have
discretion to direct a prescribed period of less than or more than 12 months.

  Article 9 makes provision for how an error in a claim for a VAT-related
payment under article 8 is to be corrected and the time limits applicable to
that process.

  Article 10 provides that claims made under article 8 must be paid in pounds
sterling and that bank charges or other costs incurred as a result of the
payment being made to a person in a country other that the United Kingdom may
be deducted from the amount due under the claim.

  Article 11 provides that a claimant must keep such records, for such period
and in such form and manner as the Commissioners may direct.

  Article 12 provides that Schedule 36 to the Finance Act  2008 (c. 9)
(information and inspection powers) (“ Schedule 36 ”) is to apply as if the
reference to any tax in paragraph 64(1) of that Schedule includes a reference
to a claim made under article 8.

  Article 13 provides that section 72 of VATA (offences) is to apply as if any
reference in subsections (1) and (8) of that section to the evasion of VAT
includes a reference to obtaining a VAT-related payment under article 8 and
any references to the amount of VAT are references, in relation to the
obtaining a VAT-related payment, to the amount falsely claimed under article
8.

  Article 14 provides that Part 1 of Schedule 24 to the Finance Act  2007 (c.
11)  (penalties for errors) (“ Schedule 24 ”) is to apply to a claim made
under article 8 as if the claim, including any return or any other document
made in connection with it, is a document of a kind listed in paragraph 1 of
that Schedule, as if the claim is a claim for repayment of VAT and as if
references to an assessment include an assessment made under article 15 of
this Order. Other Parts of Schedule 24 are to apply in accordance with the
modifications to the application of Part 1 and references in the Schedule to a
tax period are to include references to a prescribed period under the Order.

  Article 15 provides that an overclaim of a VAT-related payment may be
recovered by way of an assessment. It provides for the same time limits as are
applicable to assessments under VATA and provides that paragraph 5 of Schedule
11 to VATA (administration, collection and enforcement: recovery of VAT etc.)
is to apply as if the amount assessed is VAT due from the person assessed.

  Article 16 provides that any amount due from a claimant by way of an
assessment under this Order or due as a penalty under VATA, Schedule 24 or
Schedule 36, may be set off against an amount due to that claimant under
article 8.

  Article 17 provides that an appeal lies to the tribunal in respect of the
amount of a VAT-related payment due under article 8 and in respect of any
assessment under article 15. It also provides that Part 5 of VATA (reviews and
appeals) is to apply for the purposes of this Order with certain
modifications.

  Any general directions made by the Commissioners under this Order will be
published at  https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/customs-vat-and-
excise-uk-transition-legislation-from-1-january-2021#vat-notices-that-have-
force-of-law . A person unable to access the directions electronically may
access them in hard copy by post free of charge on application to 0300 200
3700

  A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument will be published
on the government website at  https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/tax-
information-and-impact-notes-tiins .

