Title: The Misuse of Drugs (Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-01-03
Description: These Regulations amend the Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002 (S.R. 2002 No. 1) (“the 2002 Regulations”) to permit independent prescribing of controlled drugs by therapeutic radiographer independent prescribers and paramedic independent prescribers. They also permit the supply of codeine products by podiatrists and make technical amendments in respect of podiatrist independent prescribers and physiotherapist independent prescribers, and as regards possession of ketamine by healthcare professionals.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/218

## The Misuse of Drugs (Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Dangerous Drugs

  Made   13th December 2023

  Coming into operation   31st December 2023

      The Department of Health, makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 7, 10, 22 and 31 of the Misuse of Drugs Act
1971  as adapted by sections 7(9), 31(4) and 38 of that Act and now vested in
it  and after consultation with the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs in
accordance with section 31(3) of that Act.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Misuse of Drugs (Amendment No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 31st
December 2023.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to the Regulations
as it applies to an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

### Amendment of the Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002

2

2.1

The Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002  are amended as
follows.

2.2

In regulation 2(2) (Interpretation)—

2.2.a

in the definition of “health prescription” , after “a podiatrist independent
prescriber” insert  “, a paramedic independent prescriber, a therapeutic
radiographer independent prescriber” ;

2.2.b

after the definition of “organisation providing ambulance services” , insert—

      “ paramedic independent prescriber ” has the same meaning as in the
Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ;

;

2.2.c

in the definition of “prescription” , after “by a pharmacist independent
prescriber for the medical treatment of a single individual,” insert  “a
podiatrist independent prescriber for the medical treatment of a single
individual, a physiotherapist independent prescriber for the medical treatment
of a single individual, a paramedic independent prescriber for the medical
treatment of a single individual, a therapeutic radiographer independent
prescriber for the medical treatment of a single individual,” ; and

2.2.d

after the definition of “supplementary prescriber” , insert—

      “ therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber ” has the same meaning
as in the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ;

.

2.3

In regulation 6 (General authority to supply and possess)—

2.3.a

in paragraph (2) , after “a supplementary prescriber” insert  “, a paramedic
independent prescriber, a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber,” ;
and

2.3.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

2.3.b.2A

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4(1)(b) of the Act, a person who is
in possession of a drug specified in Schedule 5 and who has been supplied that
drug by a specified registered podiatrist, may supply that drug to any doctor,
dentist or pharmacist for the purpose of destruction.

.

2.4

After regulation 6C (Authority for Physiotherapist Independent Prescribers and
Podiatrist Independent Prescribers to prescribe) , insert—

######### Authority for Therapeutic Radiographer Independent Prescribers and Paramedic Independent Prescribers to prescribe

2.4.6D

2.4.6D.1

A therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber may prescribe any of the
following controlled drugs for the treatment of organic disease or injury
provided that the controlled drug is prescribed to be administered by the
specified method—

2.4.6D.1.a

Tramadol by oral administration;

2.4.6D.1.b

Lorazepam by oral administration;

2.4.6D.1.c

Diazepam by oral administration;

2.4.6D.1.d

Morphine by oral administration or by injection;

2.4.6D.1.e

Oxycodone by oral administration;

2.4.6D.1.f

Codeine by oral administration.

2.4.6D.2

A paramedic independent prescriber may prescribe any of the following
controlled drugs for the treatment of organic disease or injury provided the
controlled drug is prescribed to be administered by the specified method—

2.4.6D.2.a

Morphine sulphate by oral administration or by injection;

2.4.6D.2.b

Diazepam by oral administration or by injection;

2.4.6D.2.c

Midazolam by oromucosal administration or by injection;

2.4.6D.2.d

Lorazepam by injection;

2.4.6D.2.e

Codeine phosphate by oral administration.

.

2.5

In regulation 7 (Administration of drugs in Schedules 2,3, 4 and 5) , at the
end insert—

2.5.10

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (3), a paramedic independent
prescriber or a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber may administer
to a patient without the directions of a doctor or a dentist, any controlled
drug which such paramedic independent prescriber or such therapeutic
radiographer independent prescriber may prescribe under regulation 6D provided
it is administered for a purpose for which it may be prescribed under that
regulation and by the method by which it was prescribed under that regulation
and by the method by which it was prescribed to be administered.

2.5.11

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (3), any person may administer to
a patient in accordance with the specific instructions of a paramedic
independent prescriber or a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber,
any controlled drug which such paramedic independent prescriber or such
therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber may prescribe under regulation
6D, provided it is administered for a purpose for which it may be prescribed
under that regulation and by the method by which it was prescribed to be
administered.

.

2.6

In regulation 8 (Production and supply of drugs in Schedules 2 and 5) —

2.6.a

in paragraph (1)(d) after “pharmacist independent subscriber,” insert
“paramedic independent prescriber, therapeutic radiographer independent
prescriber,” .

2.6.b

After paragraph (7), insert—

2.6.b.7A

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4(1)(b) of the Act, a paramedic
independent prescriber or a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber
may, when acting in their capacity as such, supply or offer to supply any
controlled drug specified in Schedule 2 or 5 to any person who may lawfully
have any of those drugs in their possession provided it is supplied or offered
in circumstances where they may prescribe it under regulation 6D.

.

2.6.c

in paragraph (8), at the end insert—

2.6.c.c

a specified registered podiatrist may, when acting in such capacity, supply or
offer to supply the following controlled drugs—

2.6.c.c.i

co-codamol 8/500, 15/500 and 30/500,

2.6.c.c.ii

co-dydramol 10/500, and

2.6.c.c.iii

codeine phosphate.

;

2.6.d

after paragraph (8) insert—

2.6.d.8A

In paragraph (8)(c) “ specified registered podiatrist ” means the registered
podiatrists specified in paragraph 11 of Part 1 and paragraph 2 of Part 4 of
Schedule 17 to the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 (against whose names are
recorded in the relevant register annotations signifying that they are
qualified to use the medicine specified).

.

2.7

In regulation 9 (Production and supply of drugs in Schedules 3 and 4)  —

2.7.a

in paragraph (1)(e), after “pharmacist independent prescriber,” insert
“paramedic independent prescriber, therapeutic radiographer independent
prescriber” ; and

2.7.b

After paragraph (7) insert—

2.7.b.7A

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4(1)(b) of the Act, a paramedic
independent prescriber or a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber
may, when acting in their capacity as such, supply or offer to supply any
controlled drug specified in Schedule 3 or 4 to any person who may lawfully
have any of those drugs in their possession provided it is supplied or offered
in circumstance where they may prescribe it under regulation 6D.

.

2.8

In regulation 10 (Possession of drugs in Schedules 2, 3, 4 and nitrous oxide)
—

2.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

2.8.a.i

in sub-paragraph (e), for “regulation 8(7), regulation 8(8)(a), regulation
9(7) or regulation 9(8)” substitute  “regulation 8(7) or (7A), regulation
8(8)(a), or regulation 9(7), (7A) or (8)” ,

2.8.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

2.8.a.ii.g

a person specified in regulation 8(8)(b) may have possession of ketamine in
accordance with that provision.

; and

2.8.b

in paragraph (2)—

2.8.b.i

in the opening words after “nurse independent prescriber,” in both places it
occurs, insert  “a podiatrist independent prescriber, a physiotherapist
independent prescriber, a paramedic independent prescriber, a therapeutic
radiographer independent prescriber” ; and

2.8.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (a)—

2.8.b.ii.aa

after “another pharmacist independent prescriber”, insert  “, another
podiatrist independent prescriber, another physiotherapist independent
prescriber, another paramedic independent prescriber, another therapeutic
radiographer independent prescriber” , and

2.8.b.ii.bb

after “pharmacist independent prescriber”, in the second place it occurs,
insert  “, podiatrist independent prescriber, physiotherapist independent
prescriber, paramedic independent prescriber, therapeutic radiographer
independent prescriber” .

2.9

In regulation 18(2)(d) (Marking of bottles and other containers) , after
“nurse independent prescriber” insert  “, registered podiatrist, paramedic
independent prescriber, therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber” .

2.10

In regulation 26(2) (Furnishing of information with respect to controlled
drugs) , at the end insert—

2.10.k

a specified registered podiatrist;

2.10.l

a paramedic independent prescriber;

2.10.m

a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 13th
December 2023.       (L.S.)   Cathy Harrison   A senior officer of the
Department of Health

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2002 ( S.R. 2002 No. 1 ) (“ the 2002 Regulations ”) to permit independent
prescribing of controlled drugs by therapeutic radiographer independent
prescribers and paramedic independent prescribers. They also permit the supply
of codeine products by podiatrists and make technical amendments in respect of
podiatrist independent prescribers and physiotherapist independent
prescribers, and as regards possession of ketamine by healthcare
professionals.

