Title: The Social Security (Habitual Residence and Past Presence) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-06-06
Description: Regulation 1 provides for citation and commencement.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/80

## The Social Security (Habitual Residence and Past Presence) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   17th May 2023

  Coming into operation   18th May 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 64(1), 70(4), 71(6), 122(1)(a)
and (d), 133(2)(a) and 171(3) and (4) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , paragraph 11(2) of Schedule 1 to the
Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , and now vested in it , sections
1(5)(a) and 19(1), (2)(a) and (3) of the State Pension Credit Act (Northern
Ireland) 2002 , paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Welfare Reform Act (Northern
Ireland) 2007  and Articles 9(5)(a), 48(1), 82(3), 97(1) and 99(1)(a) of the
Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 .           Regulation 2 is made
with the consent of the Department of Finance , in so far as it relates to the
provisions referred to in paragraph (2)(d) and (e) of that regulation.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Habitual Residence and
Past Presence) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come
into operation on 18th May 2023.

### Amendment of income-related benefit legislation

2

2.1

In the provisions specified in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph (zzc)
insert—

2.1.zzd

a person who was residing in Sudan before 15th April 2023, left Sudan in
connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15th April 2023 in
Khartoum and across Sudan and—

2.1.zzd.i

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 ;

2.1.zzd.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act ; or

2.1.zzd.iii

does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with section 3ZA of that Act ;

.

2.2

Those provisions are—

2.2.a

regulation 21AA(4) of the Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987  (special cases: supplemental–persons from abroad);

2.2.b

regulation 85A(4) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland)
1996  (special cases: supplemental–persons from abroad);

2.2.c

regulation 2(4) of the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2003  (persons not in Northern Ireland);

2.2.d

regulation 10(5) of the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006
(persons from abroad);

2.2.e

regulation 10(5) of the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the
qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006
(persons from abroad);

2.2.f

regulation 70(4) of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2008  (special cases: supplemental – persons from abroad).

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations

3

In regulation 9(4) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016
(persons treated as not being in Northern Ireland) after sub-paragraph (zc)
insert—

3.zd

a person who was residing in Sudan before 15th April 2023, left Sudan in
connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15th April 2023 in
Khartoum and across Sudan and—

3.zd.i

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971,

3.zd.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act, or

3.zd.iii

does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with section 3ZA of that Act,

.

### Amendment of disability and carer’s benefit legislation

4

4.1

In the provisions specified in paragraph (2)—

4.1.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (e)  omit “or”;

4.1.b

after sub-paragraph (f)  add—

or

4.1.b.g

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside the
immigration rules, a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning
given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA of that
Act, where the person—

4.1.b.g.i

was residing in Sudan before 15th April 2023; and

4.1.b.g.ii

left Sudan in connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15th
April 2023 in Khartoum and across Sudan.

.

4.2

Those provisions are—

4.2.a

regulation 9C(1) of the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1976  (refugees and certain persons with leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom );

4.2.b

regulation 2C(1) of the Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1992  (refugees and certain persons with leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom);

4.2.c

regulation 2C(1) of the Social Security (Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992  (refugees and certain persons with leave
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom).

### Amendment of the Personal Independence Payment Regulations

5

In regulation 23A(1) of the Personal Independence Payment Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016  (refugees and certain persons with leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom )—

5.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (e)  omit “or”;

5.b

after sub-paragraph (f)  add—

or

5.b.g

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside the
immigration rules, a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning
given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA of that
Act, where C—

5.b.g.i

was residing in Sudan before 15th April 2023; and

5.b.g.ii

left Sudan in connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15th
April 2023 in Khartoum and across Sudan.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 17th
May 2023       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities           The Department of Finance hereby consents to regulation
2, in so far as it relates to the provisions referred to in paragraph (2)(d)
and (e) of that regulation       Sealed with the Official Seal of the
Department of Finance on 17th May 2023       (L.S.)   Patrick Neeson   A
senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Regulation 1 provides for citation and commencement.

  Regulations 2 and 3 enable certain persons to access income-related benefits
upon arrival in Northern Ireland from Sudan provided they meet the other
relevant entitlement conditions.

  Those regulations amend the Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987, the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996,
the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 (“ the State
Pension Credit Regulations ”), the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006, the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying
age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006, the
Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 and the
Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (“ the Universal Credit
Regulations ”) - “the income-related benefit regulations”.

  The income-related benefit regulations provide that a person is ineligible
for benefit where he or she is a “person from abroad”, “ a person not in
Northern Ireland ” (for the purposes of the State Pension Credit Regulations),
or “ a person treated as not being in Northern Ireland ” (for the purposes of
the Universal Credit Regulations); that is to say where the person is not
habitually resident in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of
Man or the Republic of Ireland, subject to a list of exemptions.

  Regulations 2 and 3 insert a new category into the list of persons who are
exempted from having to satisfy the habitual residence test. Those persons are
those who were residing in Sudan before 15th April 2023, who left Sudan in
connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15th April 2023 in
Khartoum and across Sudan and who—     a     have been granted leave in
accordance with immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the Immigration
Act 1971;         b     have a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the
meaning given in section 2 of that Act; or         c     do not require leave
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA of
that Act.

  Regulations 4 and 5 enable certain persons to access disability and carer’s
benefits upon arrival in Northern Ireland from Sudan where they were residing
in Sudan and left Sudan in accordance with the criteria above, provided they
meet the other relevant entitlement conditions.

  Regulation 4 amends the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1976, the Social Security (Attendance Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992 and the Social Security (Disability Living
Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992 respectively, and regulation 5
amends the Personal Independence Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016,
to exempt the same group of people from the past presence test. This is the
test which normally has to be fulfilled in order to claim Carer’s Allowance,
Attendance Allowance, Disability Living Allowance and Personal Independence
Payment. The past presence test normally requires that an individual has been
present in Northern Ireland for a specified period of time to be eligible for
those benefits. The amendments also have the effect of removing the habitual
residence requirement for entitlement to disability and carer’s benefits which
would otherwise apply to these persons.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the
requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

