Title: The Judgment Enforcement Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-11-03
Description: This Order amends the Judgment Enforcement Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 101) to increase the majority of fees payable in respect of the enforcement of judgments under the Judgments Enforcement (Northern Ireland) Order 1981.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/165

## The Judgment Enforcement Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

Judgments (enforcement)

Made 10th October 2023

Coming into operation 1st November 2023

The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
116(1) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978  and now vested in it ,
makes the following Order with the concurrence of the Department of Finance .
The Department has, in accordance with section 116(1) of that Act, consulted
with the Lady Chief Justice.

### Citation and commencement


1

This Order may be cited as the Judgment Enforcement Fees (Amendment) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st November 2023.

### Amendment of the Judgment Enforcement Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996


2

The Judgment Enforcement Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996  is amended as
follows.

3

For the Schedule substitute the new Schedule set out in the Schedule to this
Order.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 10th October
2023 Richard Pengelly A senior officer of the Department of Justice The
Department of Finance concurs in the making of this Order. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 10th October 2023 Patrick Neeson
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

Article 3

Fees

Article 4

Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1. On lodging notice of intent to apply for enforcement under
rule 6; in respect of each person to be served £28.00 £31.00 2. On lodging an
application for enforcement under Article 22 of the Order; in respect of each
respondent Where the sum due on foot of the judgment— 1) does not exceed £300
39p in the £1.00 Minimum fee £20.00 39p in the £1.00 Minimum fee £20.00 2)
exceeds £300 but does not exceed £1,000 £127.00 plus £16.00 per additional
£100.00 or part thereof of the sum due in excess of £300 £127.00 plus £16.00
per additional £100.00 or part thereof of the sum due in excess of £300 3)
exceeds £1,000 but does not exceed £3,000 £273.00 plus £12.00 per additional
£100.00 or part thereof of the sum due in excess of £1,000 £273.00 plus £12.00
per additional £100.00 or part thereof of the sum due in excess of £1,000 (4)
exceeds £3,000 but does not exceed £10,000 £568.00 plus £3.00 per additional
£100.00 or part thereof of the sum due in excess of £3,000 £568.00 plus £3.00
per additional £100.00 or part thereof of the sum due in excess of £3,000 (5)
exceeds £10,000 £841.00 plus £2.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof of
the sum due in excess of £10,000 £841.00 plus £2.00 per additional £100.00 or
part thereof of the sum due in excess of £10,000 3. On lodging an application
under Article 23(1) of the Order, including one copy of the report: for each
respondent Where an application is made under Article 22 of the Order
subsequent to an application under Article 23(1) of the Order the fee paid
under Fee No 2 shall be reduced by the amount of the fee paid under Fee No 3.
£213.00 £232.00 4. On lodging an application for repossession of land £734.00
£800.00 5. On lodging an application for restitution of goods £235.00 £256.00
6. On lodging an application under rule 104 £28.00 £31.00 7. (1) On an
application for a search in the register of judgments £28.00 £31.00 (2)
Additional payment where the search is carried out by an officer of the court
£15.00 £16.00 8. On a copy, including a photographic copy, of all or any part
of any document not otherwise provided for— (a) five sheets or less £7.00
£8.00 (b) for each sheet thereafter £0.50 £0.50 9. For a certificate of
satisfaction £22.00 £24.00 10. On an administration order made under Article
80 of the Order. This fee is payable out of the money paid into the Office For
every £1.00 of the money paid into the Office in respect of debts due to
creditors, 10p For every £1.00 of the money paid into the Office in respect of
debts due to creditors, 10p 11. (i) For the removal, in accordance with an
order of seizure under Article 31 of the Order, of goods, or taking steps to
remove such goods to a place of deposit. This fee includes the reasonable
expenses of feeding and caring for animals The reasonable expenses thereof The
reasonable expenses thereof (ii) For any sale by auction of property seized
(to cover all the expenses of sale or incurred in connection therewith
including valuation, advertisement, auctioneers’ fees) The reasonable expenses
thereof The reasonable expenses thereof (iii) Where goods are sold otherwise
than at auction, for the valuation of the goods The reasonable expenses
thereof The reasonable expenses thereof

######## JUDGMENT ENFORCEMENT (RECOVERY OF ADMITTED DEBTS) RULES (NORTHERN IRELAND) 1985

Recovery of Certain Debts Without Judgment  Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of
Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 12. On lodging notice
of intention to apply for recovery of debt under rule 8; in respect of each
person to be served £28.00 £31.00 13. On lodging an application for recovery
of debt under Article 95(1) of the Order; in respect of each debtor £28.00
£31.00 14. On the Chief Enforcement Officer’s direction for recovery of an
admitted debt under rule 16(1): in respect of each debtor Where the admitted
debt— (1) does not exceed £300 39p in the £1.00 less £20.00 Minimum fee £14.00
39p in the £1.00 less £20.00 Minimum fee £14.00 (2) exceeds £300 but does not
exceed £1,000 £107.00 plus £16.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof of
the debt in excess of £300 £107.00 plus £16.00 per additional £100.00 or part
thereof of the debt in excess of £300 (3) exceeds £1,000 but does not exceed
£3,000 £255.00 plus £12.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof of the debt
in excess of £1,000 £255.00 plus £12.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof
of the debt in excess of £1000 15. On lodging a certificate of corresponding
debt under rule 18: in respect of each debtor £28.00 £31.00 16. On the
Master’s direction for enforcement of corresponding debt under rule 20(1): in
respect of each debtor; Where the sum certified as corresponding debt— (1)
does not exceed £300 39p in the £1.00 less £20.00 Minimum fee £14.00 39p in
the £1.00 less £20.00 Minimum fee £14.00 (2) exceeds £300 but does not exceed
£1,000 £107.00 plus £16.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof of the debt
in excess of £300 £107.00 plus £16.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof
of the debt in excess of £300 (3) exceeds £1,000 but does not exceed £3,000
£255.00 plus £12.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof of the debt in
excess of £1,000 £255.00 plus £12.00 per additional £100.00 or part thereof of
the debt in excess of £1,000

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends the Judgment Enforcement Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996
( S.R. 1996 No. 101 ) to increase the majority of fees payable in respect of
the enforcement of judgments under the Judgments Enforcement (Northern
Ireland) Order 1981.

An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals Service,
Central Management Team, Laganside House, 23-27 Oxford Street, Belfast BT1 3LA
or online alongside this Statutory Rule at  http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr
.

