Title: The Judicial Pensions (Remediable Service etc.) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Public Service Pensions Act 2013 (c. 25) (“PSPA 2013”) makes provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “scheme regulations” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2013), about the establishment of public service pension schemes. The Judicial Pensions Regulations 2015 (S.I. 2015/182) (“the 2015 Regulations”) are the scheme regulations establishing the successor judicial pension scheme (“the 2015 scheme”) to the judicial legacy schemes (as defined in section 70(3) of the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 (c. 7) (“PSPJOA 2022”)). The 2015 Regulations provided for transitional protection for certain cohorts of judicial legacy scheme members. This transitional protection was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between judicial pension scheme members on the basis of age.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/766

## The Judicial Pensions (Remediable Service etc.) Regulations 2023

    Public Service Pensions

  Made   4th July 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(b)

      The Lord Chancellor makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 18A of the Judicial Pensions and Retirement Act 1993 ,
sections 1(1) and (2)(b), 2(1) (as read with paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 2) and
3(1), (2)(a) (as read with paragraphs 2, 9, 12 and 13 of Schedule 3) and (c),
(3) and (4A) of the Public Service Pensions Act 2013  (“ the 2013 Act ”) and
sections 55(1) and (2), 56(1) to (3), 57(1), (4) and (5), 58(1) to (4), 61(1)
and (2), 67(2) and (3), 74(2) and 103(1) and (2) of the Public Service
Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022  (“the PSPJOA 2022”).       In
accordance with section 21 of, and paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 2 to, the 2013
Act, the Lord Chancellor has consulted the Secretary of State and such
persons, and the representatives of such persons, as appear to the Lord
Chancellor likely to be affected by these Regulations.       In accordance
with section 3(5) of the 2013 Act, the Lord Chancellor has obtained the
consent of the Treasury before making these Regulations.       The Lord
Chancellor has had regard to the matters referred to in section 5(3) of the
2013 Act.       These Regulations are made in accordance with Treasury
directions made under section 62 of PSPJOA 2022.           A draft of this
instrument has been laid before Parliament and approved by a resolution of
each House of Parliament in accordance with section 29(2A)  of the Judicial
Pensions and Retirement Act 1993 and section 24(1)(c) of the 2013 Act.

### Preliminary

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Judicial Pensions (Remediable Service etc.) Regulations
2023;

1.b

come into force on the day after the day on which they are made;

1.c

extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act
2022; “ the 2015 Regulations ” means the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2015 ;
“ the 2015 scheme ” means the scheme established by the 2015 Regulations; “
FPJR 2017 ” means the Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017 ; “
the PSP Directions 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of
Powers, Compensation and Information) Directions 2022 ; “ appropriate Minister
” has the meaning given in regulation 2 (interpretation) of the 2015
Regulations; “ appropriate person ” means— for the purposes of Part 4, R or,
if R is deceased, R’s personal representatives; for all other purposes, P or,
if P is deceased, P’s personal representatives; “ Judicial Pension Board ”
means the Judicial Pension Board established by regulation 6(1) of the 2015
Regulations;   “ purported added pension payment ” has the meaning given in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 2015 Regulations; “ purported effective
pension age payment ” means a payment— which was made by either— a person “P”
who has remediable service in a judicial office, or a relevant fee-paid judge
who has relevant service in a judicial office, which was intended to be an
effective pension age payment under Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the 2015
Regulations, and which was not in fact an effective pension age payment under
Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the 2015 Regulations due to— a determination by a
court or tribunal that, as a result of a non-discrimination rule, any person
has rights under a judicial legacy scheme in respect of P’s remediable
service, an agreement between the scheme manager of a judicial legacy scheme
and any person that, as a result of a non-discrimination rule, the person has
any rights under the scheme in respect of P’s remediable service, or the
payment being made in relation to a relevant fee-paid judge; “ purported
special payment ” means a payment— which was made by either— a person “P” who
has remediable service in a judicial office, or a relevant fee-paid judge who
has relevant service in a judicial office, which was intended to be a special
payment under regulation 74(3)(a) or (c) of the 2015 Regulations, and which
was not in fact a special payment under regulation 74(3)(a) or (c) due to— a
determination by a court or tribunal that, as a result of a non-discrimination
rule, any person has rights under a judicial legacy scheme in respect of P’s
remediable service, an agreement between the scheme manager of a judicial
legacy scheme and any person that, as a result of a non-discrimination rule,
the person has any rights under the scheme in respect of P’s remediable
service, or the payment being made in relation to a relevant fee-paid judge; “
relevant service ” has the meaning given in regulation 29(2); “ scheme actuary
” has the meaning given in regulation 2 (interpretation) of the 2015
Regulations; “ scheme manager ” has the meaning given in regulation 4 of the
2015 Regulations; “ transfer value payment ” has the meaning given in
regulation 2 of the 2015 Regulations.

2.2

Except as provided for in these Regulations, expressions used in these
Regulations have the same meaning as in Chapter 2 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022.

2.3

A reference in these Regulations to a provision of the PSP Directions 2022 is
a reference to that provision as amended from time to time.

#### Scheme manager

3

3.1

Before exercising any discretion under these Regulations, the scheme manager
must obtain a recommendation from the Judicial Pension Board.

3.2

If the scheme manager exercises any discretion under these Regulations
contrary to a recommendation made by the Judicial Pension Board, the scheme
manager must provide written reasons for doing so to the Judicial Pension
Board and to any member to whom the discretion relates.

3.3

The scheme manager and the Judicial Pension Board may agree that paragraphs
(1) and (2) do not apply to specific discretions or in specific circumstances.

#### Delegation

4

4.1

The scheme manager may delegate any functions under these Regulations,
including this power.

4.2

The Judicial Pension Board may delegate any functions under these Regulations.

#### Right of appeal

5

The scheme manager must, in consultation with the Judicial Pension Board,
establish a procedure for the consideration of appeals against decisions taken
under these Regulations.

### Provision about special cases where a member has remediable service

#### Application of Part

##### Application of Part

6

This Part applies where—

6.a

a person (“ P ”) has remediable service  in a judicial office , and

6.b

an immediate detriment remedy  has not been obtained in relation to that
service.

#### Member options

##### Compensation for special payments to buy out early payment reduction

7

7.1

This regulation applies where—

7.1.a

P has, during the period of remediable service, made any special payments
under regulation 74(3)(a) or (c) of the 2015 Regulations, and

7.1.b

a legacy scheme election  is made in respect of P.

7.2

The rights that would otherwise have been secured by the special payments are
extinguished.

7.3

The scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

7.3.a

the aggregate of the special payments made by P, less

7.3.b

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004  (member contributions) to which P was
entitled in respect of those payments.

7.4

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (3)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate those amounts.

7.5

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (3)(b) of this regulation as they apply in
relation to a determination under direction 23(2)—

7.5.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

7.5.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Compensation for payments for added pension

8

8.1

This regulation applies where—

8.1.a

P has, during the period of remediable service, made any added pension
payments under Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the 2015 Regulations,

8.1.b

regulation 129(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations does not apply in respect of
those added pension payments, and

8.1.c

a legacy scheme election is made in respect of P.

8.2

Where the appropriate person makes a request for compensation in respect of
the added pension payments—

8.2.a

the rights that would otherwise have been secured by the added pension
payments are extinguished, and

8.2.b

the scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

8.2.b.i

the aggregate of the added pension payments paid by P, less

8.2.b.ii

an amount, determined in accordance with direction 23 of the PSP Directions
2022, in respect of the value of the tax relief under section 188 of FA 2004
(member contributions) to which P was entitled in respect of those payments.

8.3

The following apply in relation to a determination in accordance with
direction 23(2)—

8.3.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

8.3.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

8.4

A request under paragraph (2) is irrevocable and must be—

8.4.a

made by notice to the scheme manager,

8.4.b

in a form required by the scheme manager, and

8.4.c

received by the scheme manager before the end of the election period .

##### Transfers out of the 2015 scheme

9

9.1

This regulation applies where a transfer value payment has been made during
the period of remediable service under regulation 133 of the 2015 Regulations
in respect of P’s accrued rights under the 2015 scheme (disregarding any
provision of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022).

9.2

Nothing in sections 40 to 66 of PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to P’s
remediable service.

9.3

The scheme manager must provide the appropriate person with a statement of the
cash equivalent to which P would have been entitled, had—

9.3.a

sections 40 to 66 of PSPJOA 2022 applied in respect of P’s accrued rights on
the guarantee date in relation to the period of remediable service, and

9.3.b

a legacy scheme election been made in respect of P.

9.4

Where—

9.4.a

the value of the cash equivalent in respect of the sum specified in regulation
137(3)(a) of the 2015 Regulations, is less than

9.4.b

the value of the cash equivalent to which P would have been entitled under
paragraph (3) in respect of that sum,

the scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount equal to the
value of the difference.

9.5

The scheme manager is discharged from any further obligation to provide
benefits in relation to the cash equivalent if—

9.5.a

the scheme manager makes any payment required to be made by paragraph (4), or

9.5.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (4)(a) is greater than the amount mentioned
in paragraph (4)(b).

9.6

In this regulation, the “guarantee date” is the date specified in the
statement of entitlement that was provided to P under regulation 135(1) of the
2015 Regulations in respect of the transfer value payment.

#### Partial retirement

##### Partial retirement notice

10

10.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

10.1.a

P exercised a partial retirement option under regulation 60(2) of the 2015
Regulations in respect of any fee-paid judicial office ,

10.1.b

a legacy scheme election is made in respect of P, and

10.1.c

the conditions set out in regulation 27(1) of FPJR 2017 are met in respect of
P.

10.2

A notice in respect of P that complies with the requirement in regulation
27(3)(a) of FPJR 2017 is treated as having been given in accordance with sub-
paragraph (3)(b) of that regulation if it is received by the appropriate
Minister before the end of the election period.

10.3

A notice under paragraph (2) has effect on the date agreed by the member and
the scheme manager under regulation 61(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations in
relation to the exercise of the partial retirement option referred to in
paragraph (1)(a).

10.4

Paragraph (5) applies where—

10.4.a

P gave notice to take partial retirement under regulation 27(2) of FPJR 2017,

10.4.b

a 2015 scheme election is made, or is treated as having been made, in respect
of P, and

10.4.c

the conditions set out in regulation 60(1) of the 2015 Regulations are met in
respect of P.

10.5

A partial retirement option in respect of P is treated as having been
exercised in accordance with regulation 61(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations if a
partial retirement option notice that complies with the requirements of
regulation 61(1)(a) and (2) of those Regulations is received by the scheme
manager before the end of the election period.

10.6

An option under paragraph (5) has effect on the day the notice mentioned in
paragraph (4)(a) was received by the appropriate Minister.

##### Corrections for pension benefits and lump sum benefits on partial retirement

11

Where paragraph (2) or (5) of regulation 10 applies, section 51 of PSPJOA 2022
applies in relation to P as if for subsection (1) there were substituted—

11.1

This section applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) of a judicial scheme
who—

11.1.a

at the end of the election period has remediable service in a judicial office
that is pensionable service under the scheme, and

11.1.b

during the period of remediable service has—

11.1.b.i

exercised a partial retirement option under regulation 60(2) of the 2015
Regulations, or

11.1.b.ii

given notice to take partial retirement under regulation 27(2) of FPJR 2017.

.

#### Annual allowance tax charges

##### Payment of annual allowance tax charges and provision of information

12

Where P is unable to give an effective notice to the scheme administrator
under section 237B(3)  of FA 2004 in relation to an in-scope tax year (within
the meaning of direction 24(7) of the PSP Directions 2022) because the time
limit in section 237BA  has passed, direction 24(2) to (6) of the PSP
Directions 2022 applies in relation to P.

### Provision where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

#### Application and Interpretation

##### Application of Part

13

13.1

This Part applies where—

13.1.a

a person (“ P ”) has remediable service in a judicial office, and

13.1.b

an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained in relation to that service.

13.2

This Part does not apply in relation to any payment or transfer of assets and
liabilities that would otherwise be payable or required to be made under this
Part to the extent that a corresponding payment or a corresponding transfer of
assets and liabilities has been made.

13.3

In this regulation—

13.3.a

a “corresponding payment” is a payment that has been made in accordance with—

13.3.a.i

a determination described in section 68(2) of PSPJOA 2022, or

13.3.a.ii

an agreement described in section 68(3) of PSPJOA 2022,

that relates to the same period of remediable service as a payment that is
payable or required to be made under this Part;

13.3.b

a “corresponding transfer of assets and liabilities” is a transfer of assets
and liabilities that has been made in accordance with a determination
described in section 68(2) of PSPJOA 2022 that relates to the same period of
remediable service as a transfer of assets and liabilities that is required to
be made under this Part.

13.4

Regulations 17 to 28 do not apply in relation to P where P is a person
described in—

13.4.a

regulation 16(1) and the steps mentioned in regulation 16(2) have not been
taken in relation to P;

13.4.b

regulation 16(3) and the steps mentioned in regulation 16(4) have not been
taken in relation to P.

##### Interpretation of Part

14

14.1

In this Part—

      “ adult survivor ” means a surviving spouse or surviving civil partner
who is entitled under the relevant judicial legacy scheme to a pension
determined (to any extent) by reference to P’s remediable service;           “
relevant judicial legacy scheme ” means—         in the case of—         a
determination described in section 68(2) of PSPJOA 2022, or           an
agreement described in section 68(3) of PSPJOA 2022,         that P has rights
under a judicial legacy salaried scheme , that scheme;           in the case
of—         a determination described in section 68(2) of PSPJOA 2022, or
an agreement described in section 68(3) of PSPJOA 2022,         that P has
rights under the judicial legacy fee-paid scheme , that scheme.

14.2

Subject to paragraph (3), for the purposes of this Part, the “ notification
period ”, in relation to a person who has obtained an immediate detriment
remedy, is the period of three months beginning with the date on which the
statement mentioned in regulation 15 is sent.

14.3

The relevant authority  may extend the period mentioned in paragraph (2) in
relation to P if the relevant authority considers it just and equitable to do
so.

#### Information statements

##### Information statements

15

15.1

The relevant authority must, as soon as reasonably practicable—

15.1.a

prepare a statement in relation to P, and

15.1.b

send it to the appropriate person.

15.2

The statement must contain such information as the relevant authority
considers relevant to P’s rights and liabilities under Chapter 2 of Part 1 of
PSPJOA 2022 or these Regulations in respect of the immediate detriment remedy.

#### Partnership pension account where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Partnership pension account: requirement to transfer and surrender rights

16

16.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

16.1.a

P has remediable service in a salaried judicial office , and

16.1.b

any of the remediable service is PPA opted-out service .

16.2

The relevant person must, before the end of the notification period, take the
steps specified in section 41(3) of PSPJOA 2022 and, for the purpose of this
paragraph, section 41(3) is to be read as if—

16.2.a

references to the relevant judicial legacy salaried scheme were references to
the scheme mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) of the definition of “relevant
judicial legacy scheme” in regulation 14(1);

16.2.b

the reference in section 41(3)(c) to the appropriate person were a reference
to the relevant person.

16.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

16.3.a

P has remediable service in a fee-paid judicial office, and

16.3.b

any of the remediable service is PPA opted-out service.

16.4

The relevant person must, before the end of the notification period, take the
steps specified in section 41(6) of PSPJOA 2022 and, for the purpose of this
paragraph, section 41(6) is to be read as if the reference in section 41(6)(c)
to the appropriate person were a reference to the relevant person.

16.5

For the purposes of this regulation, “ relevant person ” means P or, if P is
deceased—

16.5.a

the adult survivor, or

16.5.b

if there is no adult survivor, P’s personal representatives.

#### Benefits for children where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Benefits for children

17

17.1

This regulation applies where—

17.1.a

P died before the immediate detriment remedy was obtained,

17.1.b

the immediate detriment remedy was obtained by an adult survivor of P,

17.1.c

P is survived by a child who is not living in the same household as the adult
survivor,

17.1.d

the child would have received benefits in respect of P under the 2015 scheme
if—

17.1.d.i

an immediate detriment remedy had not been obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service, and

17.1.d.ii

a 2015 scheme election had been made in respect of P, and

17.1.e

the benefits payable under the relevant judicial legacy scheme in respect of
the child are, in the opinion of the scheme manager of the scheme, less
valuable (looked at in the round) than those that would have been payable in
respect of the child if—

17.1.e.i

an immediate detriment remedy had not been obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service, and

17.1.e.ii

a 2015 scheme election had been made in respect of P.

17.2

The benefits payable in respect of the child under the relevant judicial
legacy scheme, so far as they are determined by reference to P’s remediable
service, are such benefits as would have been payable in respect of the child,
so far as they are determined by reference to P’s remediable service, if—

17.2.a

an immediate detriment remedy had not been obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service, and

17.2.b

a 2015 scheme election had been made in respect of P.

17.3

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to benefits that were payable in respect of
the child before, as well as after, the immediate detriment remedy was
obtained.

#### Partial retirement where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Partial retirement notice

18

18.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

18.1.a

P   purported to exercise   a partial retirement option under regulation 60(2)
of the 2015 Regulations in respect of any fee-paid judicial office, and

18.1.b

the conditions set out in regulation 27(1) of FPJR 2017 are met in respect of
P.

18.2

A notice in respect of P that complies with the requirement in regulation
27(3)(a) of FPJR 2017 is treated as having been given in accordance with sub-
paragraph (3)(b) of that regulation if it is received by the appropriate
Minister before the end of the notification period.

18.3

A notice under paragraph (2) has effect on the date agreed by the member and
the scheme manager under regulation 61(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations in
relation to the   purported  exercise of the partial retirement option
referred to in paragraph (1)(a).

#### Benefits and contributions previously paid or payable

##### Effect of immediate detriment remedy on benefits previously paid or payable

19

19.1

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to any   payments purporting to be benefits
that the 2015 scheme has at any time paid (“the purported benefits”)   to a
person so far as—

19.1.a

they are calculated by reference to P’s remediable service in a salaried
judicial office, and

19.1.b

they are   payments   that, as a result of any immediate detriment remedy that
has been obtained in relation to that service, a person was not entitled to
receive  as benefits   from the 2015 scheme.

19.2

  The purported benefits   are to be treated for all purposes—

19.2.a

as not having been paid to the person by the 2015 scheme, but

19.2.b

as having been paid to the person instead by the scheme mentioned in sub-
paragraph (a) of the definition of “relevant judicial legacy scheme” in
regulation 14(1).

19.3

Paragraph (4) applies in relation to any   payments purporting to be benefits
that the 2015 scheme has at any time paid (“the purported benefits”)   to a
person so far as—

19.3.a

they are calculated by reference to P’s remediable service in a fee-paid
judicial office, and

19.3.b

they are   payments   that, as a result of any immediate detriment remedy that
has been obtained in relation to that service, a person was not entitled to
receive  as benefits   from the 2015 scheme.

19.4

  The purported benefits   are to be treated for all purposes—

19.4.a

as not having been paid to the person by the 2015 scheme, but

19.4.b

as having been paid to the person instead by the judicial legacy fee-paid
scheme.

19.5

Where, as a result of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained
(and after taking into account the effect of paragraphs (2) and (4))—

19.5.a

a judicial legacy scheme  owes a person an amount in respect of benefits which
are calculated by reference to P’s remediable service, or

19.5.b

a person owes a judicial legacy scheme an amount in respect of such benefit,

such amount must be paid in accordance with regulation 21.

##### Effect of immediate detriment remedy on pension contributions previously paid or payable

20

20.1

Paragraph (2) applies where P has   made any payments purporting to be pension
contributions under the 2015 scheme (“the purported contributions”)   which—

20.1.a

are calculated by reference to P’s remediable service in a salaried judicial
office, and

20.1.b

as a result of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained in
relation to that service,   were not payments that P was required to make
under the 2015 scheme .

20.2

  The purported contributions   are to be treated for all purposes—

20.2.a

as not having been paid by P to the 2015 scheme, but

20.2.b

as having been paid by P instead to the scheme mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)
of the definition of “relevant judicial legacy scheme” in regulation 14(1).

20.3

Paragraph (4) applies where P has   made any payments purporting to be pension
contributions under the 2015 scheme (“the purported contributions”)   which—

20.3.a

are calculated by reference to P’s remediable service in a fee-paid judicial
office, and

20.3.b

as a result of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained in
relation to that service,   were not payments that P was required to make
under the 2015 scheme .

20.4

  The purported contributions   are to be treated for all purposes—

20.4.a

as not having been paid by P to the 2015 scheme, but

20.4.b

as having been paid by P instead to the judicial legacy fee-paid scheme.

20.5

Where, as a result of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained
(and after taking into account the effect of paragraphs (2) and (4))—

20.5.a

a judicial legacy scheme owes a person an amount in respect of pension
contributions which are calculated by reference to P’s remediable service, or

20.5.b

a person owes a judicial legacy scheme an amount in respect of such
contributions,

such amount must be paid only in accordance with regulation 22.

#### Corrections for benefits and contributions where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits

21

21.1

This regulation applies where—

21.1.a

a notice in respect of an option to take partial retirement is treated as
having been given in relation to P by virtue of regulation 18(2),

21.1.b

P is a pensioner member in relation to the judicial office, or

21.1.c

P is deceased.

21.2

Where—

21.2.a

the aggregate of the pension benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulation 19(2) or (4)) have been paid under a judicial
legacy scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of P’s remediable
service, exceeds

21.2.b

the aggregate of the pension benefits to which (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained in
relation to P’s remediable service) the beneficiary was entitled under the
scheme in respect of the service,

the beneficiary must pay the difference to the scheme.

21.3

Where—

21.3.a

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(a), is less than

21.3.b

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(b),

the scheme manager must pay the difference to the beneficiary.

21.4

Where—

21.4.a

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulation 19(2) or (4)) have been paid under a judicial
legacy scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of P’s remediable
service, exceeds

21.4.b

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits to which (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained in
relation to P’s remediable service) the beneficiary was entitled under the
scheme in respect of the service,

the beneficiary must pay the difference to the scheme.

21.5

Where—

21.5.a

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (4)(a), is less than

21.5.b

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (4)(b),

the scheme manager must pay the difference to the beneficiary.

##### Pension contributions

22

22.1

This regulation applies in relation to P after taking into account the effect,
if any, of any immediate detriment remedy that has been obtained in respect of
P’s remediable service.

22.2

Where—

22.2.a

the paid contributions amount for an in-scope tax year in respect of P’s
remediable service, exceeds

22.2.b

the payable contributions amount for that tax year in respect of that service,

the scheme manager must (directly or indirectly) pay an amount in respect of
the difference to the appropriate person.

22.3

Where—

22.3.a

the paid contributions amount for an out-of-scope tax year in respect of P’s
remediable service, exceeds

22.3.b

the payable contributions amount for that tax year in respect of that service,

no amount is to be paid by the scheme manager in respect of the difference to
the appropriate person.

22.4

Where—

22.4.a

the paid contributions amount for an in-scope or out-of-scope tax year in
respect of P’s remediable service, is less than

22.4.b

the payable contributions amount for that tax year in respect of that service,

the appropriate person must pay pension contributions in respect of the
difference to the scheme.

22.5

A reference in this regulation to “the paid contributions amount” for a tax
year in respect of P’s remediable service in a judicial office is a reference
to the sum of—

22.5.a

the aggregate of the pension contributions that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulation 20(2) and (4)) have been paid under the scheme
by P in the tax year in respect of so much of the service as was not PPA
opted-out service, and

22.5.b

where any of the remediable service was PPA opted-out service—

22.5.b.i

the aggregate of the pension contributions and any voluntary contributions
that have been paid by P under the partnership pension account in the tax year
in respect of the PPA opted-out service, or

22.5.b.ii

if lower, the aggregate of the pension contributions that (after taking into
account the effect, if any, of regulation 22(2) and (4)) were payable under
the scheme by P for that tax year in respect of the PPA opted-out service.

22.6

A reference in this regulation to “the payable contributions amount” for a tax
year in respect of P’s remediable service means the aggregate of the pension
contributions that (after taking into account the effect, if any, of
regulation 22(2) and (4)) were payable under the scheme by P for that tax year
in respect of the service.

22.7

For the purposes of this regulation—

22.7.a

a tax year is “ in-scope ” in relation to P if any necessary adjustment to the
amount of income tax paid by P in respect of PAYE income for the tax year is
capable of being enforced by HMRC under PAYE regulations;

22.7.b

a tax year is “ out-of-scope ” in relation to P if it is not in-scope in
relation to P.

22.8

A reference in this regulation to pension contributions or voluntary
contributions paid by a person under a partnership pension account is a
reference to the amount of the contributions paid, net of any tax relief under
section 188 of FA 2004 (relief for contributions) to which the person was
entitled in respect of them.

#### Compensation for voluntary payments where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Compensation for  

23

23.1

This regulation applies where P has, during the period of remediable service,
made any   purported  special payments  ....

23.2

  For the avoidance of doubt, any rights   that would otherwise have been
secured by the   purported  special payments  , had P been entitled to make
them,   are extinguished.

23.3

The scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

23.3.a

the aggregate of the  purported special payments made by P, less

23.3.b

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004 (member contributions) to which P   would
have been   entitled in respect of those payments  had P been entitled to make
them .

23.4

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (3)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate those amounts.

23.5

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (3)(b) as they apply in relation to a
determination under direction 23(2)—

23.5.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

23.5.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Compensation for payments for  

24

24.1

This regulation applies where—

24.1.a

P has, during the period of remediable service, made any   purported  added
pension payments  ..., and

24.1.b

regulation 129(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations does not apply in respect of
those payments.

24.2

Where the appropriate person makes a request for compensation in respect of
the  purported  added pension payments—

24.2.a

  for the avoidance of doubt, any rights   that would otherwise have been
secured by the purported  added pension payments  , had P been entitled to
make them,   are extinguished, and

24.2.b

the scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

24.2.b.i

the aggregate of the purported  added pension payments paid by P, less

24.2.b.ii

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004 (member contributions) to which P   would
have been   entitled in respect of those payments  had P been entitled to make
them .

24.3

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (2)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate those amounts.

24.4

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2)(b) of this regulation as they apply in
relation to a determination under direction 23(2)—

24.4.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

24.4.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

24.5

A request under paragraph (2) is irrevocable and must be—

24.5.a

made by notice to the scheme manager,

24.5.b

in a form required by the scheme manager, and

24.5.c

received by the scheme manager before the end of the notification period.

##### Compensation for  

25

25.1

This regulation applies where P has, during the period of remediable service,
made any   purported  effective pension age payments  ....

25.2

  For the avoidance of doubt, any rights   that would otherwise have been
secured by the purported  effective pension age payments  , had P been
entitled to make them,   are extinguished.

25.3

The scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

25.3.a

the aggregate of the  purported  effective pension age payments made by P,
less

25.3.b

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004 (member contributions) to which P   would
have been   entitled in respect of those payments  had P been entitled to make
them .

25.4

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (3)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate those amounts.

25.5

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (3)(b) as they apply in relation to a
determination under direction 23(2)—

25.5.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

25.5.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

#### Transitional protection allowance where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Transitional protection allowance

26

26.1

This regulation applies where P’s employer  has paid P a transitional
protection allowance .

26.2

The appropriate person must pay to P’s employer an amount equal to—

26.2.a

the amount of the transitional protection allowance, less

26.2.b

an amount in respect of the income tax suffered by P that is attributable to
the transitional protection allowance.

#### Compensation for compensatable losses where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Power to pay compensation in respect of compensatable losses

27

27.1

The scheme manager for a judicial scheme may pay amounts by way of
compensation in respect of compensatable losses incurred by the appropriate
person.

27.2

For the purposes of this regulation a loss incurred by the appropriate person
is “compensatable” if and to the extent that—

27.2.a

the first condition is met (see paragraph (5)) and the loss is—

27.2.a.i

a direct financial loss, or

27.2.a.ii

a specified Part 4 tax loss, or

27.2.b

the second condition is met (see paragraph (6)) and the loss is—

27.2.b.i

a direct financial loss which is directly related to the member’s remediable
service in an employment or office which is mixed service , or

27.2.b.ii

a specified Part 4 tax loss.

27.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a)(ii) and (b)(ii), a Part 4 tax loss is a
“specified Part 4 tax loss” if and to the extent that it falls within one of
the descriptions listed in direction 26(4) of the PSP Directions 2022.

27.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), direction 26(4) is to be read as if—

27.4.a

references to a legacy scheme election being made by virtue of section 40(1)
of PSPJOA 2022 were references to an immediate detriment remedy being obtained
by virtue of—

27.4.a.i

a determination mentioned in section 68(2)(a) of PSPJOA 2022, or

27.4.a.ii

an agreement mentioned in section 68(3)(a) of PSPJOA 2022;

27.4.b

the reference in direction 26(4)(e) to section 52(3) of PSPJOA 2022 were a
reference to regulation 22(3);

27.4.c

in direction 26(4)(f)—

27.4.c.i

the reference to provision made by virtue of section 56(2) of PSPJOA 2022 were
a reference to regulation 63(2);

27.4.c.ii

the reference to section 52(4) of PSPJOA 2022 were a reference to regulation
22(4).

27.5

The first condition is that the loss is attributable to, or is reasonably
regarded as attributable to, a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule .

27.6

The second condition is that the loss is attributable to the application of
any provision of this Part.

27.7

Paragraph (1) does not confer power to pay amounts by way of compensation in
respect of compensatable losses so far as—

27.7.a

the appropriate person has already received amounts by way of compensation in
respect of them, or

27.7.b

amounts that any person has paid to the scheme have been reduced by amounts in
respect of them,

whether pursuant to a court or tribunal order or otherwise.

27.8

For the purpose of this regulation, a breach of a non-discrimination rule is
“relevant” if section 59(10) of PSPJOA 2022 applies to it.

27.9

In this regulation, “loss”—

27.9.a

has the meaning given in section 59(6) and (7) of PSPJOA 2022;

27.9.b

does not include an amount that is payable under this Part.

#### Unauthorised payments where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained

##### Scheme rules that prohibit unauthorised payments

28

28.1

This regulation applies where—

28.1.a

a payment from a judicial scheme is permitted or required to be made under
this Part,

28.1.b

the payment, if made, would be an unauthorised payment , and

28.1.c

a rule of the scheme prohibits the scheme from making unauthorised payments.

28.2

The payment may be made only if it falls within a description of payments that
correspond to a description of payments specified for the purposes of section
63 of PSPJOA 2022 in Treasury directions.

28.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

28.3.a

in the course of taking the steps mentioned in regulation 16 (requirement to
transfer assets held in a partnership pension account) a payment is made from
a partnership pension account,

28.3.b

the payment, if made, would be an unauthorised payment, and

28.3.c

a rule of the scheme prohibits the scheme from making unauthorised payments.

28.4

The payment may be made notwithstanding the rule mentioned in paragraph
(3)(c).

### Provision in relation to certain fee-paid judges

#### Application and Interpretation

##### Application of Part

29

29.1

This Part applies where a relevant fee-paid judge  (“ R ”) has relevant
service in a judicial office.

29.2

“Relevant service” is any continuous period of service that meets the
following conditions.

29.3

The first condition is that the service in question took place in the period
beginning with 1st April 2015 and ending with 31st March 2022.

29.4

The second condition is that the service—

29.4.a

is pensionable service under a judicial legacy scheme, or

29.4.b

would have been pensionable service under a judicial scheme but for the fact
that the person, in accordance with the scheme, opted that it should not be
(or failed to opt that it should be) pensionable service under the scheme.

29.5

The second condition is met if all of the service in question falls within
paragraph (4)(a) and (b) (even if it does not fall within only one of those
paragraphs).

29.6

The third condition is that there is no disqualifying gap in service  falling
within the period—

29.6.a

beginning with the day after the most recent day in relation to which section
103(3)(c) PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to R, and

29.6.b

ending with the day before the first day of the relevant service.

29.7

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(b), a person is treated as having opted in
accordance with the scheme that service should not be pensionable service
under a judicial scheme if the service would have been pensionable service
under that scheme (or would have been if the person had opted that it should
be) but for the fact that the person had a partnership pension account.

29.8

This Part does not apply in relation to any payment or transfer of assets and
liabilities that would otherwise be payable or required to be made under this
Part where a corresponding payment or a corresponding transfer of assets and
liabilities has been made.

29.9

In paragraph (8)—

      a “corresponding payment” is a payment that has been made in relation to
R’s relevant service that corresponds to a payment that is payable or required
to be made under this Part;           a “corresponding transfer of assets and
liabilities” is a transfer of assets and liabilities that has been made in
relation to R’s relevant service that corresponds to a transfer of assets and
liabilities that is required to be made under this Part.

29.10

Regulations 33 to 45 do not apply in relation to R where R is a person
described in—

29.10.a

regulation 32(1) and the steps mentioned in regulation 32(2) have not been
taken in relation to R;

29.10.b

regulation 32(3) and the steps mentioned in regulation 32(4) have not been
taken in relation to R.

##### Interpretation of Part

30

30.1

In this Part—

      “ adult survivor ” means a surviving spouse or surviving civil partner
who is entitled under a judicial legacy scheme to a pension determined (to any
extent) by reference to R’s relevant service;           “ Part 4 judicial
legacy salaried scheme ”, in relation to a member’s relevant service in a
salaried judicial office, means the judicial legacy salaried scheme under
which the member most recently accrued pensionable service in the office.

30.2

For the purposes of this Part—

30.2.a

R’s relevant service is “PPA opted-out relevant service” if and to the extent
that R made contributions to a partnership pension account in respect of it;

30.2.b

the “ notification period ”, in relation to R, is (subject to sub-paragraph
(c)) the period of three months beginning with the date on which the statement
mentioned in regulation 31 is sent;

30.2.c

the relevant authority may extend the period mentioned in sub-paragraph (b) in
relation to R if the relevant authority considers it just and equitable to do
so.

#### Information statements

##### Information statements

31

31.1

The relevant authority must, as soon as reasonably practicable—

31.1.a

prepare a statement in relation to R, and

31.1.b

send it to the appropriate person.

31.2

The statement must contain such information as the relevant authority
considers relevant to R’s rights and liabilities under these Regulations.

#### Partnership pension account where a person has relevant service

##### Partnership pension account: requirement to transfer and surrender rights

32

32.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

32.1.a

R has relevant service in a salaried judicial office, and

32.1.b

any of the relevant service is PPA opted-out relevant service.

32.2

The relevant person must, before the end of the notification period, take the
steps specified in section 41(3) of PSPJOA 2022 and for these purposes section
41(3) is to be read as if—

32.2.a

references to the relevant judicial legacy salaried scheme were references to
the Part 4 judicial legacy salaried scheme;

32.2.b

the reference in section 41(3)(c) to the appropriate person were a reference
to the relevant person.

32.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

32.3.a

R has relevant service in a fee-paid judicial office, and

32.3.b

any of the relevant service is PPA opted-out relevant service.

32.4

The relevant person must, before the end of the notification period, take the
steps specified in section 41(6) of PSPJOA 2022, and for these purposes the
reference in section 41(6)(c) to the appropriate person is to be read as a
reference to the relevant person.

32.5

In this regulation, “ relevant person ” means “R” or, if R is deceased—

32.5.a

the adult survivor, or

32.5.b

if there is no adult survivor, R’s personal representatives.

#### Benefits for children

##### Benefits for children

33

33.1

This regulation applies where—

33.1.a

R is deceased,

33.1.b

R is survived by a child who—

33.1.b.i

is not living in the same household as an adult survivor of R, and

33.1.b.ii

is entitled to benefits in respect of R under a judicial legacy scheme, and

33.1.c

the benefits payable under the judicial legacy scheme in respect of the child
are, in the opinion of the scheme manager of the scheme, less valuable (looked
at in the round) than those that would have been payable in respect of the
child under the 2015 scheme.

33.2

The benefits payable in respect of the child under the judicial legacy scheme,
so far as they are determined by reference to R’s relevant service, are such
benefits as would have been payable in respect of the child, so far as they
are determined by reference to R’s relevant service, if R had been a member of
the 2015 scheme.

#### Partial retirement

##### Partial retirement notice

34

34.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

34.1.a

R exercised a partial retirement option under regulation 60(2) of the 2015
Regulations in respect of any fee-paid judicial office, and

34.1.b

the conditions set out in regulation 27(1) of FPJR 2017 are met in respect of
R.

34.2

A notice in respect of R that complies with the requirement in regulation
27(3)(a) of FPJR 2017 is treated as having been given in accordance with sub-
paragraph (3)(b) of that regulation if it is received by the appropriate
Minister before the end of the notification period.

34.3

A notice under paragraph (2) has effect on the date agreed by the member and
the scheme manager under regulation 61(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations in
relation to the exercise of the partial retirement option referred to in
paragraph (1)(a).

#### Benefits and contributions previously paid or payable

##### Benefits previously paid or payable

35

35.1

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to any   payments purporting to be benefits
that the 2015 scheme has at any time paid (“the purported benefits”)   to a
person so far as—

35.1.a

they are calculated by reference to R’s relevant service in a salaried
judicial office, and

35.1.b

they are   payments   that a person was not entitled to receive  as benefits
from the 2015 scheme.

35.2

  The purported benefits   are to be treated for all purposes—

35.2.a

as not having been paid to the person by the 2015 scheme, but

35.2.b

as having been paid to the person instead by the Part 4 judicial legacy
salaried scheme.

35.3

Paragraph (4) applies in relation to any   payments purporting to be benefits
that the 2015 scheme has at any time paid (“the purported benefits”)   to a
person so far as—

35.3.a

they are calculated by reference to R’s relevant service in a fee-paid
judicial office, and

35.3.b

they are   payments   that a person was not entitled to receive  as benefits
from the 2015 scheme.

35.4

  The purported benefits   are to be treated for all purposes—

35.4.a

as not having been paid to the person by the 2015 scheme, but

35.4.b

as having been paid to the person instead by the judicial legacy fee-paid
scheme.

35.5

Where, after taking into account the effect of paragraphs (2) and (4)—

35.5.a

a judicial legacy scheme owes a person an amount in respect of benefits which
are calculated by reference to R’s relevant service in a judicial office, or

35.5.b

a person owes a judicial legacy scheme an amount in respect of such benefits,

such amount must be paid in accordance with regulation 37.

##### Pension contributions previously paid or payable

36

36.1

Paragraph (2) applies where R has   made any payments purporting to be pension
contributions under the 2015 scheme (“the purported contributions”)   which—

36.1.a

are calculated by reference to R’s relevant service in a salaried judicial
office, and

36.1.b

  were payments which,  had R been recognised as a full protection member  of
a judicial legacy scheme in relation to that service, R would not have been
required to pay to the 2015 scheme.

36.2

  The purported contributions   are to be treated for all purposes—

36.2.a

as not having been paid by R to the 2015 scheme, but

36.2.b

as having been paid by R instead to the Part 4 judicial legacy salaried
scheme.

36.3

Paragraph (4) applies where R has   made any payments purporting to be pension
contributions under the 2015 scheme (“the purported contributions”)   which—

36.3.a

are calculated by reference to R’s relevant service in a fee-paid judicial
office, and

36.3.b

  were payments which,  had R been recognised as a full protection member of a
judicial legacy scheme in relation to that service, R would not have been
required to pay to the 2015 scheme.

36.4

  The purported contributions   are to be treated for all purposes—

36.4.a

as not having been paid by R to the 2015 scheme, but

36.4.b

as having been paid by R instead to the judicial legacy fee-paid scheme.

36.5

Where, after taking into account the effect of paragraphs (2) and (4)—

36.5.a

a judicial legacy scheme owes a person an amount in respect of pension
contributions which are calculated by reference to R’s relevant service, or

36.5.b

a person owes a judicial legacy scheme an amount in respect of such
contributions,

such amount must be paid in accordance with regulation 38.

#### Corrections for pension benefits and contributions

##### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits

37

37.1

This regulation applies where—

37.1.a

a notice in respect of an option to take partial retirement is treated as
having been given in relation to R by virtue of regulation 34(2),

37.1.b

R is a pensioner member in relation to a judicial office, or

37.1.c

R is deceased.

37.2

Where—

37.2.a

the aggregate of the pension benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulation 35(2) or (4)) have been paid under a judicial
legacy scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of R’s relevant
service in a judicial office, exceeds

37.2.b

the aggregate of the pension benefits to which the beneficiary was entitled
under the scheme in respect of the service,

the beneficiary must pay the difference to the scheme.

37.3

Where—

37.3.a

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(a), is less than

37.3.b

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(b),

the scheme manager must pay the difference to the beneficiary.

37.4

Where—

37.4.a

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulation 35(2) or (4)) have been paid under a judicial
legacy scheme to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) in respect of R’s relevant
service in a judicial office, exceeds

37.4.b

the aggregate of the lump sum benefits to which the beneficiary was entitled
under the scheme in respect of the service,

the beneficiary must pay the difference to the scheme.

37.5

Where—

37.5.a

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (4)(a), is less than

37.5.b

the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph (4)(b),

the scheme manager must pay the difference to the beneficiary.

##### Pension contributions

38

38.1

Where—

38.1.a

the paid contributions amount for an in-scope tax year in respect of R’s
relevant service in a judicial office, exceeds

38.1.b

the payable contributions amount for that tax year in respect of that service,

the scheme manager must (directly or indirectly) pay an amount in respect of
the difference to the appropriate person.

38.2

Where—

38.2.a

the paid contributions amount for an out-of-scope tax year in respect of R’s
relevant service in a judicial office, exceeds

38.2.b

the payable contributions amount for that tax year in respect of that service,

no amount is to be paid by the scheme manager in respect of the difference to
the appropriate person.

38.3

Where—

38.3.a

the paid contributions amount for an in-scope or out-of-scope tax year in
respect of R’s relevant service in a judicial office, is less than

38.3.b

the payable contributions amount for that tax year in respect of that service,

the appropriate person must pay pension contributions to the scheme in respect
of the difference.

38.4

A reference in this regulation to “the paid contributions amount” for a tax
year in respect of R’s relevant service in a judicial office is a reference to
the sum of—

38.4.a

the aggregate of the pension contributions that (after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulation 36(2) and (4)), have been paid under the scheme
by R in the tax year in respect of so much of the service as was not PPA
opted-out service, and

38.4.b

where any of the relevant service was PPA opted-out service—

38.4.b.i

the aggregate of the pension contributions and any voluntary contributions
that (after taking into account the effect, if any, of regulation 36(2) and
(4)) have been paid by R under the partnership pension account in the tax year
in respect of the PPA opted-out service, or

38.4.b.ii

if lower, the aggregate of the pension contributions that were payable under
the scheme by R for that tax year in respect of the PPA opted-out service.

38.5

A reference in this regulation to “the payable contributions amount” for a tax
year in respect of R’s relevant service in a judicial office means the
aggregate of the pension contributions that were payable under the relevant
judicial legacy scheme by R for that tax year in respect of the service.

38.6

For the purposes of this regulation—

38.6.a

a tax year is “ in-scope ” in relation to R if any necessary adjustment to the
amount of income tax paid by R in respect of PAYE income for the tax year is
capable of being enforced by HMRC under PAYE regulations;

38.6.b

a tax year is “ out-of-scope ” in relation to R if it is not in-scope in
relation to R.

38.7

A reference in this regulation to pension contributions or voluntary
contributions paid by a person under a partnership pension account is a
reference to the amount of the contributions paid, net of any tax relief under
section 188 of FA 2004 (relief for contributions) to which the person was
entitled in respect of them.

#### Compensation for voluntary payments

##### Compensation for  

39

39.1

This regulation applies where R has, during the period of relevant service,
made any  purported   special payments  ....

39.2

  For the avoidance of doubt, any rights   that would otherwise have been
secured by the  purported  special payments  , had R been entitled to make
them,   are extinguished.

39.3

The scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

39.3.a

the aggregate of the  purported  special payments made by R, less

39.3.b

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004 (member contributions) to which P   would
have been   entitled in respect of those payments  had R been entitled to make
them .

39.4

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (3)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate that amount.

39.5

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (3)(b) as they apply in relation to a
determination under direction 23(2)—

39.5.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

39.5.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Compensation for payments for 

40

40.1

This regulation applies where—

40.1.a

R has, during the period of relevant service, made any   purported  added
pension payments  ..., and

40.1.b

regulation 129(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations does not apply in respect of
those payments.

40.2

Where the appropriate person makes a request for compensation in respect of
the purported  added pension payments—

40.2.a

  for the avoidance of doubt, any rights   that would otherwise have been
secured by the  purported  added pension payments  , had R been entitled to
make them,   are extinguished, and

40.2.b

the scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

40.2.b.i

the aggregate of the  purported  added pension payments paid by R, less

40.2.b.ii

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004 (member contributions) to which R   would
have been   entitled in respect of those payments  had R been entitled to make
them .

40.3

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (2)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate that amount.

40.4

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2)(b) of this regulation as they apply in
relation to a determination under direction 23(2)—

40.4.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

40.4.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

40.5

A request under paragraph (2) is irrevocable and must be—

40.5.a

made by notice to the scheme manager,

40.5.b

in a form required by the scheme manager, and

40.5.c

received by the scheme manager before the end of the notification period.

##### Compensation for 

41

41.1

This regulation applies where R has, during the period of relevant service,
made any   purported  effective pension age payments  ....

41.2

  For the avoidance of doubt, any rights   that would otherwise have been
secured by the  purported  effective pension age payments  , had R been
entitled to make them,   are extinguished.

41.3

The scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount by way of
compensation equal to—

41.3.a

the aggregate of the purported  effective pension age payments made by R, less

41.3.b

an amount determined by the scheme manager in respect of the value of the tax
relief under section 188 of FA 2004 (member contributions) to which R   would
have been   entitled in respect of those payments  had R been entitled to make
them .

41.4

Where determining the tax relief amount under paragraph (3)(b), the scheme
manager may adopt an approach which is reasonable in all the circumstances to
approximate that amount.

41.5

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (3)(b) as they apply in relation to a
determination under direction 23(2)—

41.5.a

direction 23(4) (provision of explanation);

41.5.b

direction 23(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Transfers out of the 2015 scheme

42

42.1

This regulation applies where a transfer value payment has, during the period
of relevant service, been made under regulation 133 of the 2015 Regulations in
respect of R’s accrued rights under the 2015 scheme.

42.2

The scheme manager must provide the appropriate person with a statement of the
cash equivalent to which R was entitled, under a judicial legacy scheme, in
respect of R’s accrued rights on the guarantee date in relation to the period
of relevant service.

42.3

Where—

42.3.a

the value of the cash equivalent in respect of the sum specified in regulation
137(3)(a) of the 2015 Regulations, is less than

42.3.b

the value of the cash equivalent to which R was entitled under paragraph (2)
in respect of that sum,

the scheme manager must pay to the appropriate person an amount equal to the
value of the difference.

42.4

The scheme manager is discharged from any further obligation to provide
benefits to which the cash equivalent related.

42.5

In this regulation the “guarantee date” is the date specified in the statement
of entitlement that was provided to R under regulation 135(1) of the 2015
Regulations in respect of the transfer value payment.

#### Transitional protection allowance

##### Transitional protection allowance

43

43.1

This regulation applies where R’s employer has paid R a transitional
protection allowance.

43.2

The appropriate person must pay to R’s employer an amount equal to—

43.2.a

the amount of the transitional protection allowance, less

43.2.b

an amount in respect of the income tax suffered by R that is attributable to
the transitional protection allowance.

#### Compensation for compensatable losses

##### Power to pay compensation in respect of compensatable losses

44

44.1

The scheme manager for a judicial scheme may pay amounts by way of
compensation in respect of compensatable losses incurred by the appropriate
person.

44.2

For the purposes of this regulation a loss incurred by the appropriate person
is “compensatable” if and to the extent that—

44.2.a

the first condition is met (see paragraph (5)) and the loss is—

44.2.a.i

a direct financial loss, or

44.2.a.ii

a specified Part 4 tax loss, or

44.2.b

the second condition is met (see paragraph (6)) and the loss is—

44.2.b.i

a direct financial loss which is directly related to the member’s remediable
service in an employment or office which is mixed service, or

44.2.b.ii

a specified Part 4 tax loss.

44.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a)(ii) and (b)(ii), a Part 4 tax loss is a
“specified Part 4 tax loss” if and to the extent that it falls within one of
the descriptions listed in direction 26(4) of the PSP Directions 2022.

44.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), direction 26(4) is to be read as if—

44.4.a

references to a legacy scheme election being made by virtue of section 40(1)
of PSPJOA 2022 were references to the operation of this Part;

44.4.b

the reference in direction 26(4)(e) to section 52(3) of PSPJOA 2022 were a
reference to regulation 38(2);

44.4.c

in direction 26(4)(f)—

44.4.c.i

the reference to provision made by virtue of section 56(2) of PSPJOA 2022 were
a reference to regulation 63(2);

44.4.c.ii

the reference to section 52(4) of PSPJOA 2022 were a reference to regulation
38(3).

44.5

The first condition is that the loss is attributable to, or is reasonably
regarded as attributable to, the fact that R was not recognised as a full
protection member of a judicial legacy scheme.

44.6

The second condition is that the loss is attributable to the application of
any provision of this Part.

44.7

Paragraph (1) does not confer power to pay amounts by way of compensation in
respect of compensatable losses so far as—

44.7.a

the appropriate person has already received amounts by way of compensation in
respect of them, or

44.7.b

amounts that any person has paid to the scheme have been reduced by amounts in
respect of them,

whether pursuant to a court or tribunal order or otherwise.

44.8

In this regulation, “loss”—

44.8.a

has the meaning given in section 59(6) to (8) of PSPJOA 2022;

44.8.b

does not include an amount that is payable under this Part.

#### Unauthorised payments

##### Scheme rules that prohibit unauthorised payments

45

45.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

45.1.a

a payment from a judicial scheme is permitted or required to be made under
this Part,

45.1.b

the payment, if made, would be an unauthorised payment, and

45.1.c

a rule of the scheme prohibits the scheme from making unauthorised payments.

45.2

The payment may be made only if it falls within a description of payments that
correspond to a description of payments specified for the purposes of section
63 of PSPJOA 2022 in Treasury directions.

45.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

45.3.a

in the course of taking the steps mentioned in regulation 32 (requirement to
transfer assets held in a partnership pension account) a payment is made from
a partnership pension account,

45.3.b

the payment, if made, would be an unauthorised payment, and

45.3.c

a rule of the scheme prohibits the scheme from making unauthorised payments.

45.4

The payment may be made notwithstanding the rule mentioned in paragraph
(3)(c).

### Pension Credit Members

#### Preliminary

##### Application of Part

46

46.1

This Part applies where—

46.1.a

a person (“ P ”) has remediable service in a judicial office,

46.1.b

a pension sharing order is made in respect of P, and

46.1.c

the transfer day of the pension sharing order is in the period beginning with
1st April 2015 and ending with the day before the day on which—

46.1.c.i

the legacy scheme election or 2015 scheme election takes effect in respect of
P, or

46.1.c.ii

either of the conditions under section 68(2) or (3) of PSPJOA 2022 is
satisfied in relation to P’s remediable service.

46.2

This Part also applies where—

46.2.a

a person (“ P ”) has relevant service in a judicial office,

46.2.b

a pension sharing order is made in respect of P, and

46.2.c

the transfer day of the pension sharing order is in the period beginning with
1st April 2015 and ending on the day before the day on which Part 4 takes
effect in respect of P.

##### Interpretation of Part

47

47.1

In this Part—

      “ amount of credited pension ” has the meaning given in regulation 2 of
the 2015 Regulations;           “ appropriate amount ” means the amount
calculated under section 29(2) and (3) of WRPA 1999  in respect of a pension
sharing order;           “ cash equivalent ” means a value calculated by
virtue of section 30 of WRPA 1999;           “ corresponding pension debit
member ”, in relation to a relevant pension credit member, means the person
mentioned in paragraph (b) of the definition of “relevant pension credit
member”;           “pension credit” and “pension debit” have the meanings
given in section 57(7) of PSPJOA 2022;           “ pension sharing order ”
means an order or provision by virtue of which section 29 of WRPA 1999 applies
to a relevant pension credit member and the corresponding pension debit
member;           “ relevant benefits ” means—         where P was in
pensionable service on the transfer day, the benefits or future benefits to
which P was entitled under a judicial scheme by virtue of P’s shareable rights
in the scheme in respect of P’s service beginning on 1st April 2015 and ending
on the day before the transfer day;           otherwise, the benefits or
future benefits to which P was entitled under a judicial scheme by virtue of
P’s shareable rights in the scheme in respect of P’s service beginning on 1st
April 2015 and ending on the last day of P’s service;                 “
relevant pension credit member ”, in relation to a judicial scheme, means a
person who has rights under the scheme—         which are attributable
(directly or indirectly) to a pension credit, and           the value of which
was determined (to any extent) by reference to the value of benefits payable
in respect of the remediable service or relevant service in a judicial office
of another person;                 “ relevant period ” means—         where P
has remediable service and an immediate detriment remedy has not been obtained
in relation to that service, the election period in relation to P, and
otherwise, the notification period in relation to P;                 “
shareable rights ” has the meaning given in section 27(2) of WRPA 1999;
“ transfer day ”, in relation to a pension sharing order, means the day on
which the relevant pension sharing order takes effect;           “ valuation
day ” has the meaning given in section 29(7) of WRPA 1999 in respect of a
pension credit member and the corresponding debit member.

47.2

For the purposes of this Part, the “ notification period ”, in relation to P,
has the meaning given—

47.2.a

where P has remediable service and an immediate detriment remedy has been
obtained in relation to that service, in regulation 14(2) and (3);

47.2.b

where P has relevant service, in regulation 30(2)(b) and (c).

#### Provision where all remediable or relevant service was in the 2015 scheme

##### Application of Chapter

48

48.1

This Chapter applies where the following three conditions are met.

48.2

The first condition is that a relevant pension credit member (“ C ”) has
rights in respect of a pension credit under the 2015 scheme.

48.3

The second condition is that the corresponding pension debit member in
relation to C (“ P ”) is subject to a pension debit in the 2015 scheme.

48.4

The third condition is that—

48.4.a

this Part applies by virtue of regulation 46(1), but only if none of P’s
remediable service is pensionable service in a judicial legacy scheme
(disregarding any legacy scheme election or 2015 scheme election made in
respect of P, or any immediate detriment remedy obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service), or

48.4.b

this Part applies by virtue of regulation 46(2).

##### Adjustments for pension credit members

49

49.1

The scheme manager must, after consultation with the scheme actuary, provide C
with a statement of C’s remediable pension amount and remediable pension
credit before the beginning of the relevant period.

49.2

Where—

49.2.a

C’s remediable pension amount exceeds the appropriate amount in respect of the
pension sharing order in the 2015 scheme, and

49.2.b

C requests that C’s remediable pension credit is added to C’s rights under—

49.2.b.i

the 2015 scheme, or

49.2.b.ii

a judicial legacy scheme (if any),

at the end of the relevant period, C becomes entitled to a remediable pension
credit in accordance with the request, such credit to take effect as if it had
been added to C’s rights with effect from the transfer day.

49.3

A request under paragraph (2)(b)—

49.3.a

must be—

49.3.a.i

made by notice to the scheme manager,

49.3.a.ii

in a form required by the scheme manager, and

49.3.a.iii

received by the scheme manager before the end of the relevant period, and

49.3.b

is irrevocable.

49.4

Where no request is made in accordance with paragraph (3), at the end of the
relevant period C becomes entitled to a remediable pension credit in the 2015
scheme, such credit to take effect as if it had been added to C’s rights with
effect from the transfer day.

49.5

Where C becomes entitled to a remediable pension credit under this regulation,
C is entitled to rights under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2A  to JUPRA 1993  in
respect of that remediable pension credit.

49.6

In this regulation—

      “ remediable pension amount ” means—         where the pension sharing
order specified a percentage value to be transferred from the 2015 scheme, the
specified percentage of the cash equivalent of P’s relevant benefits on the
valuation day calculated as if the relevant benefits were in P’s judicial
legacy scheme;           where the pension sharing order specified an amount
to be transferred from the 2015 scheme, the percentage which this amount
represented of the cash equivalent of P’s relevant benefits in the 2015 scheme
on the valuation day disregarding any—         legacy scheme election made in
respect of P,           immediate detriment remedy obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service, or           where this Part applies in respect of P by
virtue of the application of regulation 46(2), the effect of Part 2 of
Schedule 2 to the 2015 Regulations in relation to P,         calculated
instead as if P’s relevant benefits were in P’s judicial legacy scheme;
“ remediable pension credit ” means the greater of—         zero, and
the remediable pension amount minus the appropriate amount.

##### Adjustments for pension debit members where a legacy scheme election is made

50

50.1

This regulation applies where—

50.1.a

a legacy scheme election is made in respect of P,

50.1.b

an immediate detriment remedy is obtained in relation to P’s remediable
service, or

50.1.c

this Part applies by virtue of regulation 46(2).

50.2

At the end of the relevant period, the scheme manager must adjust the value of
P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme as the scheme manager,
after consultation with the scheme actuary, considers appropriate having
regard to—

50.2.a

the cash equivalent of P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme in
respect of P’s remediable service or relevant service from 1st April 2015 to
the day before the transfer day,

50.2.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the pension
sharing order in respect of the 2015 scheme, and

50.2.c

the provisions of sections 29 (creation of pension credits and debits) and 31
(reduction of benefit) of WRPA 1999.

50.3

The adjustment made under paragraph (2) has effect from the transfer day.

#### Provision where all remediable service subject to a relevant pension sharing order was in a judicial legacy scheme

##### Application of Chapter

51

This Chapter applies where—

51.a

a relevant pension credit member (“ C ”) has rights in respect of a pension
credit in a judicial legacy scheme,

51.b

the corresponding debit member in relation to C (“ P ”) is subject to a
pension debit in a judicial legacy scheme, and

51.c

all of P’s remediable service beginning on 1st April 2015 and ending on the
day before the transfer day is, disregarding any legacy scheme election or
2015 scheme election made in respect of P, pensionable service in a judicial
legacy scheme.

##### Adjustments for pension credit members

52

52.1

The scheme manager must, after consultation with the scheme actuary and before
the beginning of the relevant period, provide C with a statement of—

52.1.a

C’s 2015 scheme remediable pension amount,

52.1.b

C’s legacy scheme remediable pension amount, and

52.1.c

C’s remediable pension credit.

52.2

Where the value of C’s 2015 scheme remediable pension amount exceeds the value
of C’s legacy scheme remediable pension amount, both calculated on the
valuation day at the end of the relevant period, C becomes entitled to a
remediable pension credit, such credit to take effect as if it had been added
to C’s rights in C’s judicial legacy scheme on the transfer day.

52.3

Where C becomes entitled to a remediable pension credit under this regulation,
C is entitled to rights under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2A to JUPRA 1993 in
respect of that remediable pension credit.

52.4

In this regulation—

      “ 2015 scheme remediable pension amount ” means—         where the
pension sharing order specified a percentage value to be transferred from P’s
judicial legacy scheme, the specified percentage of the cash equivalent of P’s
relevant benefits on the valuation day calculated as if the relevant benefits
were in the 2015 scheme;           where the pension sharing order specified
an amount to be transferred from P’s judicial legacy scheme, the percentage
which this amount represented of the cash equivalent of P’s relevant benefits
in P’s judicial legacy scheme on the valuation day (disregarding any 2015
scheme election), calculated instead as if P’s relevant benefits were in the
2015 scheme;                 “ legacy scheme remediable pension amount ”
means—         where the pension sharing order specified a percentage value to
be transferred from P’s judicial legacy scheme, the specified percentage of
the cash equivalent of P’s relevant benefits on the valuation day calculated
as if the relevant benefits were in P’s judicial legacy scheme;
where the pension sharing order specified an amount to be transferred from P’s
judicial legacy scheme, the percentage which this amount represented of the
cash equivalent of P’s relevant benefits in P’s judicial legacy scheme on the
valuation day (disregarding any 2015 scheme election) calculated as if the
relevant benefits were in P’s judicial legacy scheme;                 “
remediable pension credit ” means the greater of—         zero, and
the 2015 scheme remediable pension amount minus the legacy scheme remediable
pension amount.

##### Adjustments for pension debit members where a 2015 scheme election is made

53

53.1

This regulation applies where a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of P.

53.2

At the end of the relevant period, the scheme manager must adjust the value of
P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme as the
scheme manager, after consultation with the scheme actuary, considers
appropriate having regard to—

53.2.a

the cash equivalent of P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme in
respect of P’s service up to and including 31 March 2015,

53.2.b

the cash equivalent of P’s shareable rights in the 2015 scheme in respect of
P’s remediable service from 1 April 2015 to the day before the transfer day,

53.2.c

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the pension
sharing order in respect of a judicial legacy scheme, and

53.2.d

the provisions of sections 29 (creation of pension credits and debits) and 31
(reduction of benefit) of WRPA 1999.

53.3

The adjustment made under paragraph (2) has effect from the transfer day.

#### Provision where the relevant pension sharing order is in respect of mixed service

##### Application of Chapter

54

This Chapter applies where—

54.a

a relevant pension credit member (“ C ”) has rights in the 2015 scheme and a
judicial legacy scheme, and

54.b

the corresponding debit member (“ P ”) has remediable service which is mixed
service.

##### Interpretation of Chapter

55

In this Chapter—

      “ mixed service ” means remediable service of P in a judicial office
where, disregarding any legacy scheme election or 2015 scheme election made in
respect of P or any immediate detriment remedy obtained in relation to the
service—         some of the service on or before transfer day is pensionable
service under a judicial legacy scheme, and           some of the service on
or before transfer day is pensionable service under the 2015 scheme;
“ relevant legacy scheme order or provision ” means the order or provision by
virtue of which section 29 of WRPA 1999 applied to the relevant pension credit
member and corresponding debit member in respect of a judicial legacy scheme;
“ relevant 2015 scheme order or provision ” means the order or provision by
virtue of which section 29 of WRPA 1999 applied to the relevant pension credit
member and corresponding debit member in respect of the 2015 scheme.

##### Adjustments for pension credit members where there is mixed service

56

56.1

The scheme manager must, after consultation with the scheme actuary, calculate
the value of C’s—

56.1.a

legacy scheme remediable pension amount, and

56.1.b

2015 scheme remediable pension amount.

56.2

The scheme manager must, before the beginning of the relevant period, provide
C with a statement of C’s—

56.2.a

amount of credited pension in the 2015 scheme,

56.2.b

rights in respect of a pension credit in a judicial legacy scheme,

56.2.c

higher remediable pension amount, and

56.2.d

remediable pension credit and remediable pension reduction.

56.3

Paragraphs (4) to (6) apply where C has a remediable pension credit that is
greater than zero.

56.4

Where C requests that the remediable pension credit is added to C’s rights in
the 2015 scheme or a judicial legacy scheme, at the end of the relevant
period, C becomes entitled to a remediable pension credit in accordance with
the request, such credit to take effect as if it had been added to C’s rights
in the judicial scheme with effect from the transfer day.

56.5

A request under paragraph (4)—

56.5.a

must be—

56.5.a.i

made by notice to the scheme manager,

56.5.a.ii

in a form required by the scheme manager, and

56.5.a.iii

received by the scheme manager before the end of the relevant period, and

56.5.b

is irrevocable.

56.6

Where no request is made in accordance with paragraph (5), at the end of the
relevant period C becomes entitled to a remediable pension credit in the 2015
scheme, such credit to take effect as if it had been added to C’s rights in
the 2015 scheme on the transfer day.

56.7

Paragraphs (8) to (10) apply where C is subject to a remediable pension
reduction that is less than zero.

56.8

Where C requests that the remediable pension reduction is applied to C’s
rights in the 2015 scheme or judicial legacy scheme, at the end of the
relevant period C becomes subject to a remediable pension reduction in
accordance with the request, such reduction to take effect as if it had
reduced C’s rights in the judicial scheme on the transfer day.

56.9

A request under paragraph (8)—

56.9.a

must be—

56.9.a.i

made by notice to the scheme manager,

56.9.a.ii

in a form required by the scheme manager, and

56.9.a.iii

received by the scheme manager before the end of the relevant period, and

56.9.b

is irrevocable.

56.10

Where no request is made in accordance with paragraph (9), at the end of the
relevant period C becomes subject to a remediable pension reduction from the
2015 scheme, such reduction to take effect as if it had reduced C’s rights in
the 2015 scheme on the transfer day.

56.11

Where, under this regulation, C becomes—

56.11.a

entitled to a remediable pension credit, C is entitled to rights under
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2A to JUPRA 1993 in respect of that remediable pension
credit;

56.11.b

subject to a remediable pension reduction, C’s rights under that paragraph are
reduced by the amount of that remediable pension reduction.

56.12

In this regulation—

      “ 2015 scheme remediable pension amount ” means—         where the
relevant orders or provisions specified a percentage value to be transferred,
the sum of—         the specified percentage in the relevant legacy scheme
order or provision of the cash equivalent of P’s pre-taper date relevant
benefits on the valuation day calculated as if the pre-taper date relevant
benefits were in the 2015 scheme, and           the specified percentage in
the relevant 2015 scheme order or provision of the cash equivalent of P’s
post-taper date relevant benefits on the valuation day, calculated as if the
post-taper date relevant benefits were in the 2015 scheme;
where the pension sharing order specified an amount to be transferred, the sum
of—         the percentage which the amount in the relevant legacy scheme
order or provision represented of the cash equivalent of P’s pre-taper date
relevant benefits in P’s judicial legacy scheme on the valuation day
(disregarding any 2015 scheme election), calculated instead as if P’s pre-
taper date relevant benefits were in the 2015 scheme, and           the
percentage which the amount in the relevant 2015 scheme order or provision
represented of the cash equivalent of P’s post-taper date relevant benefits in
the 2015 scheme on the valuation day (disregarding any 2015 scheme election);
“ higher remediable pension amount ” means the greater of—         the legacy
scheme remediable pension amount, and           the 2015 scheme remediable
pension amount;                 “ legacy scheme remediable pension amount ”
means—         where the relevant orders or provisions specified a percentage
value to be transferred, the sum of—         the specified percentage in the
relevant legacy scheme order or provision of the cash equivalent of P’s pre-
taper date relevant benefits on the valuation day calculated as if the pre-
taper date relevant benefits were in P’s judicial legacy scheme, and
the specified percentage in the relevant 2015 scheme order or provision of the
cash equivalent of P’s post-taper date relevant benefits on the valuation day,
calculated as if the post-taper date relevant benefits were in P’s judicial
legacy scheme;                 where the pension sharing order specified an
amount to be transferred, the sum of—         the percentage which the amount
in the relevant legacy scheme order or provision represented of the cash
equivalent of P’s pre-taper date relevant benefits in P’s judicial legacy
scheme on the valuation day (disregarding any 2015 scheme election made in
respect of P or immediate detriment remedy obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service), and           the percentage which the amount in the
relevant 2015 scheme order or provision represented of the cash equivalent of
P’s post-taper date relevant benefits in the 2015 scheme on the valuation day
(disregarding any legacy scheme election made in respect of P or immediate
detriment remedy obtained in relation to P’s remediable service), calculated
instead as if P’s post-taper date relevant benefits were in P’s judicial
legacy scheme;                       “ pre-taper date relevant benefits ”
means the benefits or future benefits to which P was entitled under a judicial
scheme by virtue of P’s shareable rights in the scheme in respect of P’s
service beginning on 1 April 2015 and ending on the day before P’s taper date;
“ post-taper date relevant benefits ” means—         where P was in
pensionable service on the transfer day, the benefits or future benefits to
which P was entitled under a judicial scheme by virtue of P’s shareable rights
in the scheme in respect of P’s service beginning on P’s taper date and ending
on the day before the transfer day;           otherwise, the benefits or
future benefits to which P was entitled under a judicial scheme by virtue of
P’s shareable rights in the scheme in respect of P’s service beginning on P’s
taper date and ending on the last day of P’s service;                 “
remediable pension credit ” means the greater of—         zero, and
the higher remediable pension amount minus the remediable service appropriate
amount;                 “ remediable pension reduction ” means the lesser of—
zero, and           the higher remediable pension amount minus the remediable
service appropriate amount;                 “ remediable service appropriate
amount ” means the pension credit, calculated in accordance with section 29(2)
and (3) of WRPA 1999, for the period of remediable service;           “ taper
date ” means (disregarding any legacy scheme election or 2015 scheme election
made in respect of P or immediate detriment remedy obtained in relation to P’s
remediable service) the day after the tapered protection closing date for P;
“ tapered protection closing date ” has the meaning given in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 2 to the 2015 Regulations.

##### Adjustments for pension debit members

57

57.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a legacy scheme election is made in respect of P.

57.2

At the end of the relevant period, the scheme manager must adjust the value of
P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme as the scheme manager,
after consultation with the scheme actuary, considers appropriate having
regard to—

57.2.a

the cash equivalent of P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme in
respect of P’s remediable service from 1 April 2015 to the day before the
transfer day,

57.2.b

the percentage value to be transferred or the amount to be transferred
specified in the relevant legacy scheme order or provision and the relevant
2015 scheme order or provision, and

57.2.c

the provisions of sections 29 (creation of pension credits and debits) and 31
(reduction of benefit) of WRPA 1999.

57.3

Paragraph (4) applies where a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of P.

57.4

At the end of the relevant period, the scheme manager must adjust the value of
P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme and the 2015 scheme as the
scheme manager, after consultation with the scheme actuary, considers
appropriate having regard to—

57.4.a

the cash equivalent of P’s shareable rights in P’s judicial legacy scheme in
respect of P’s service up to and including 31 March 2015,

57.4.b

the cash equivalent of P’s shareable rights in the 2015 scheme in respect of
P’s remediable service from 1 April 2015 to the day before the transfer day,

57.4.c

the percentage value to be transferred or the amount to be transferred
specified in the relevant legacy scheme order or provision and the relevant
2015 scheme order or provision, and

57.4.d

the provisions of sections 29 (creation of pension credits and debits) and 31
(reduction of benefit) of WRPA 1999.

57.5

The adjustments made under paragraphs (2) and (4) have effect from the
transfer day.

#### Correction of pension benefits and lump sum benefits

##### Correction of pension benefits and lump sum benefits where underpayment

58

58.1

This regulation applies in relation to a relevant pension credit member (“ C
”) who, at the end of the relevant period—

58.1.a

has a remediable pension credit in a judicial scheme by virtue of this Part,
and

58.1.b

is a pensioner member  of that scheme.

58.2

The scheme manager must pay to C the aggregate of the pension benefits and
lump sum benefits (if any) to which C was entitled by virtue of their
remediable pension credit.

##### Correction of pension benefits and lump sum benefits where overpayment

59

59.1

This regulation applies in relation to a pension credit member (“ C ”) who, at
the end of the relevant period—

59.1.a

is subject to a remediable pension reduction from a judicial scheme by virtue
of this Part, and

59.1.b

is a pensioner member of that scheme.

59.2

C must pay to the scheme manager the difference between—

59.2.a

the aggregate of the pension benefits and lump sum benefits, if any, that have
been paid under a judicial scheme to C, and

59.2.b

the aggregate of the pension benefits and lump sum benefits to which (after
taking into account the remediable pension reduction) C was entitled under any
judicial scheme.

### Liabilities and amounts owed

#### Interest

##### Interest

60

60.1

This regulation applies to—

60.1.a

relevant amounts , and

60.1.b

amounts payable by way of benefits or compensation described in section
68(2)(b)(i) or (3)(b)(i) (whether an “immediate detriment remedy” has been
obtained) of PSPJOA 2022.

60.2

The scheme manager must calculate interest on an amount described in direction
28 of the PSP Directions 2022 in accordance with the provisions of directions
28 and 29 which apply to that description of amount.

60.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

60.3.a

the references in direction 28(1) and (6) to section 59(1) of PSPJOA 2022 are
to be read as including references to regulations 27(1) and 44(1);

60.3.b

direction 29 is to be read as if—

60.3.b.i

the reference in paragraph (1) to section 51(2) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 21(2) and 37(2);

60.3.b.ii

the reference in paragraph (3) to section 51(3) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 21(3) and 37(3);

60.3.b.iii

the reference in paragraph (5) to section 51(4) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 21(4) and 37(4);

60.3.b.iv

the reference in paragraph (6) to section 51(5) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 21(5) and 37(5);

60.3.b.v

the reference in paragraph (7) to section 52(2) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 22(2) and 38(1);

60.3.b.vi

the reference in paragraph (9) to section 52(4) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 22(4) and 38(3);

60.3.b.vii

the reference in paragraph (11) to section 53(3) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 25(3) and 41(3);

60.3.b.viii

the reference in paragraph (13) to section 54(2) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 26(2) and 43(2);

60.3.b.ix

the reference in paragraph (14) to scheme regulations made by virtue of
section 58(2)(a) of PSPJOA 2022 which make provision as mentioned in section
58(3) of PSPJOA 2022 were a reference to regulation 8(2)(b);

60.3.b.x

the reference in paragraph (16) to section 59(1) of PSPJOA 2022 includes a
reference to regulations 27(1) and 44(1).

60.4

In relation to an amount not described in direction 28 of the PSP Directions
2022, the scheme manager must determine whether interest is paid and, if so,
what rate of interest applies and how it is calculated.

60.5

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (4) as if it were a determination under
direction 30(1) of those Directions—

60.5.a

direction 30(2) (provision of explanation);

60.5.b

direction 30(3) and (4) (appeals).

#### Reduction or waiver of liabilities owed to a judicial scheme

##### Application of Chapter

61

This Chapter applies after taking into account the effect of regulation 60
(interest) in respect of an amount.

##### Reduction of liability to pay pension contributions by tax relief amounts

62

62.1

This regulation applies where the appropriate person has a liability to pay
pension contributions to the 2015 scheme under regulations 22(4) or 38(3) or
section 52(4) of PSPJOA 2022.

62.2

The scheme manager must reduce the liability for the appropriate person to pay
the pension contributions by tax relief amounts  determined in accordance with
direction 22(5) and (6) of the PSP Directions 2022.

62.3

The scheme manager must make the reduction mentioned in paragraph (2) before
the liability is netted off in accordance with regulation 64.

62.4

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply where the scheme
manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 22(5)—

62.4.a

direction 22(7) (provision of explanation);

62.4.b

direction 22(8) and (9) (appeals).

##### Reduction or waiver of liability to repay overpaid pension benefits

63

63.1

This regulation applies where a person (“ Y ”) owes a liability to a judicial
scheme under—

63.1.a

regulation 21(2) or (4) or 37(2) or (4), or

63.1.b

section 51(2) or (4) of PSPJOA 2022 (corrections for pension benefits and lump
sum benefits in relation to persons with remediable service).

63.2

The scheme manager may reduce or waive the liability where—

63.2.a

Y makes an application under paragraph (3), and

63.2.b

the scheme manager complies with the requirements set out in direction
22(1)(a) to (c) of the PSP Directions 2022 (and the reference in direction
22(1)(c) to “any scheme regulations made by virtue of section 61(1)(b) of
PSPJOA 2022” is to be read as a reference to regulation 66).

63.3

An application must be—

63.3.a

in writing,

63.3.b

in a form required by the scheme manager,

63.3.c

accompanied by such information and documents as the scheme manager may
require as evidence of Y’s circumstances, and

63.3.d

received by the scheme manager before the end of the period of six months
beginning with the date on which Y is notified of the liability.

63.4

The scheme manager may extend the period mentioned in paragraph (3)(d) in
relation to Y if the scheme manager considers it just and equitable to do so.

#### Netting off

##### Netting off

64

64.1

This regulation applies where—

64.1.a

amounts mentioned in regulation 60(1) owed by and to a person (“ P ”) fall to
be paid at the same or approximately the same times, and

64.1.b

the scheme manager has—

64.1.b.i

determined the interest (if any) that is to be paid on the relevant amounts in
accordance with regulation 60, and

64.1.b.ii

where regulation 62 applies in relation to any of the amounts, reduced such
amounts by tax relief amounts in accordance with that regulation.

64.2

The scheme manager may determine, in accordance with direction 31(3) to (6) of
the PSP Directions 2022, that the amounts (and interest on them) must be
aggregated and that the difference must be paid by P to the scheme or (as the
case may be) by the scheme to P.

64.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2) as if it were a determination under
direction 31(2) of those Directions—

64.3.a

direction 31(7) (provision of explanation);

64.3.b

direction 31(8) and (9) (appeals).

#### Amounts owed to a judicial scheme or employer or to a person

##### Application

65

This Chapter applies after taking into account the effect, if any, of
regulations 60 to 64.

##### Amounts owed to a judicial scheme

66

66.1

This regulation applies where a person (“ Y ”) owes an amount to the scheme
under these Regulations or Chapter 2 of PSPJOA 2022.

66.2

Except where paragraph (3) applies, Y must pay the amount to the scheme before
the end of the period of six months beginning with the day on which Y is
notified that the amount must be paid.

66.3

Where the scheme manager considers it reasonable in the circumstances the
amount may be reduced (including to zero) by payments made in one or more of
the following ways—

66.3.a

instalments as may be specified in an agreement between Y and the scheme
manager, or

66.3.b

deductions from—

66.3.b.i

where Y is in judicial office, any salary or fees payable in respect of Y’s
judicial office as may be specified in an agreement between Y and the
employer;

66.3.b.ii

any lump sum payable in accordance with section 4 of JUPRA 1993 or regulation
25 of FPJR 2017 as may be specified in an agreement between Y and the scheme
manager;

66.3.b.iii

the pension entitlements mentioned in paragraph (4) as may be specified in an
agreement between Y and the scheme manager.

66.4

The pension entitlements are—

66.4.a

where Y is a member of a judicial scheme, any pension to which Y is entitled
under section 2 of JUPRA 1993, Part 6 of the 2015 Regulations or Parts 3 (with
the exception of regulation 25) and 4 of FPJR 2017;

66.4.b

where the member in relation to whose service the amount is owed is deceased,
any pension to which Y is entitled under sections 5 or 6 of JUPRA 1993, Part 8
of the 2015 Regulations or Part 6 of FPJR 2017;

66.4.c

where Y is a member of a judicial scheme by virtue of another person’s
pensionable service in a judicial office, any pension to which Y is entitled
under Schedule 2A to JUPRA 1993, Part 7 of the 2015 Regulations or Part 5 of
FPJR 2017.

66.5

The deductions from the payments specified in paragraph (3)(b)(i)—

66.5.a

may be of fixed monetary amounts, or

66.5.b

may be calculated as a percentage of the salary or fees payable.

66.6

Where—

66.6.a

an agreement between Y and the employer specifies deductions from payments
specified in paragraph (3)(b)(i), and

66.6.b

Y ceases to be in service in any judicial office before all of the specified
deductions have been made,

Y must pay the outstanding amount to the scheme within a period of six months
beginning with the last day of Y’s service.

66.7

The scheme manager may extend the period mentioned in paragraph (6) if the
scheme manager considers it just and equitable to do so.

66.8

For the purpose of paragraph (6) the “outstanding amount” is—

66.8.a

an amount equal to the amount of the specified deductions that have not been
made on the last day of Y’s service, plus

66.8.b

any interest which has accrued on that amount under regulation 60.

##### Amounts owed to a person’s employer

67

67.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a person (“ Y ”) owes an amount to a person’s
employer under section 54 of PSPJOA 2022 or regulation 26 or 43 (transitional
protection allowance).

67.2

Paragraphs (2) to (8) of regulation 66 apply in respect of the amount as if
the reference to the “ scheme ” or the “scheme manager” in the following
provisions of that regulation were to Y’s employer—

67.2.a

paragraph (2);

67.2.b

in paragraph (3)—

67.2.b.i

the opening words;

67.2.b.ii

sub-paragraph (a);

67.2.c

the closing words of paragraph (6);

67.2.d

paragraph (7).

##### Amounts owed to a person

68

68.1

This regulation applies where an amount is payable by a judicial scheme to a
person (“ Y ”) under these Regulations or Chapter 2 of PSPJOA 2022.

68.2

The scheme manager may require Y to make an application for payment of the
amount.

68.3

Where the scheme manager requires Y to make an application the scheme manager
may pay the amount on receipt of an application that meets the requirements of
paragraph (4).

68.4

An application must be—

68.4.a

in writing,

68.4.b

in a form required by the scheme manager,

68.4.c

accompanied by such information and documents as the scheme manager may
require, and

68.4.d

received by the scheme manager before the end of the period of three months
starting with the day on which Y receives notification that an application for
payment of the amount must be made.

### Miscellaneous amendments

#### Miscellaneous amendments

69

69.1

Part 1 of the Schedule contains miscellaneous amendments by virtue of, and in
consequence of, PSPJOA 2022.

69.2

Part 2 of the Schedule contains unrelated amendments.

      Alex Chalk   Lord Chancellor   Ministry of Justice     4th July 2023
We consent to the making of these Regulations       Steve Double   Andrew
Stephenson   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury     27th
June 2023

  Miscellaneous amendments

Regulation 69

##### Amendments by virtue of, and in consequence of, PSPJOA 2022

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2015

1

1.1

The 2015 Regulations are amended as follows.

1.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

1.2.a

after the opening words insert—

      “ 2023 Regulations ” means the Judicial Pensions (Remediable Service
etc.) Regulations 2023;

;

1.2.b

for the definition of “active member” substitute—

      “ active member ”, in relation to this scheme, means a person who is—
in pensionable service under this scheme; or           deemed to have been an
active member of this scheme by virtue of regulations 38A(2) or 38B(2) or
paragraphs 23A(2) or 23B(2) of Schedule 1;

;

1.2.c

for the definition of “amount of credited pension” substitute—

      “ amount of credited pension ” means the sum of the pension credit
calculated in accordance with regulations made under paragraph 5(b) of
Schedule 5 (pension credits: mode of discharge) to WRPA 1999 and any
remediable pension credit or remediable pension reduction, where—
“remediable pension credit”, in the circumstances mentioned in—
regulation 48 of the 2023 Regulations, has the meaning given in regulation
49(6) of those Regulations;           regulation 51 of the 2023 Regulations,
has the meaning given in regulation 52(4) of those Regulations;
regulation 55 of the 2023 Regulations, has the meaning given in regulation
56(12) of those Regulations;                 “ remediable pension reduction ”
has the meaning given in regulation 56(12) of the 2023 Regulations;

;

1.2.d

after the definition of “PA 1995” insert—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022;

;

1.2.e

after the definition of “registered” insert—

      “ relevant fee-paid judge ” has the meaning given in section 103 of
PSPJOA 2022;

;

1.2.f

after the definition of “relevant scheme” insert—

      “ relevant service ” has the meaning given in regulation 29(2) of the
2023 Regulations;

.

1.3

After regulation 38 (receipt of transfer value payment) insert—

############ Accrued earned pension attributable to a transfer value payment where a legacy scheme election is made

1.3.38A

1.3.38A.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

1.3.38A.1.a

a person “P” has remediable service in a judicial office;

1.3.38A.1.b

a transfer value payment has been received by this scheme in relation to P
during the period of remediable service; and

1.3.38A.1.c

either—

1.3.38A.1.c.i

a legacy scheme election under section 40 of PSPJOA 2022 is made in respect of
P; or

1.3.38A.1.c.ii

an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained in relation to the period of
remediable service.

1.3.38A.2

P is deemed to have been an active member of this scheme for all purposes in
connection with the transfer value payment.

############ Accrued earned pension attributable to a transfer value payment in respect of relevant fee-paid judges

1.3.38B

1.3.38B.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

1.3.38B.1.a

a relevant fee-paid judge “R” has relevant service in a judicial office; and

1.3.38B.1.b

a transfer value payment has been received by this scheme in relation to R
during the period of relevant service.

1.3.38B.2

R is deemed to have been an active member of this scheme for all purposes in
connection with the transfer value payment.

.

1.4

In regulation 52(5) (establishment of pension credit member’s account)—

1.4.a

omit the “and” immediately after sub-paragraph (a);

1.4.b

at the end of (b) insert—

; and

1.4.b.c

any adjustment required by Part 5 of the 2023 Regulations other than a
remediable pension credit to which the pension credit member has become
entitled under that Part

.

1.5

After regulation 126(1) (payment of member contributions) insert—

1.5.1A

Member contributions that must be paid under section 52(4) of PSPJOA 2022 are
to be paid in accordance with regulation 66 of the 2023 Regulations.

.

1.6

In Schedule 1, after paragraph 23 insert—

############ Deemed membership for added pension payments

############# Added pension where a legacy scheme election is made

1.6.23A

1.6.23A.1

This paragraph applies where—

1.6.23A.1.a

a person “P” has remediable service in a judicial office;

1.6.23A.1.b

P has, during the period of remediable service, made an added pension payment
under this Part;

1.6.23A.1.c

either—

1.6.23A.1.c.i

a legacy scheme election is made in respect of P under section 40 of PSPJOA
2022; or

1.6.23A.1.c.ii

an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained in relation to the period of
remediable service; and

1.6.23A.1.d

a request has not been made in respect of P under regulations 8 or 24 of the
2023 Regulations.

1.6.23A.2

P is deemed to have been an active member of this scheme for all purposes in
connection with the added pension payments.

############# Added pension in respect of relevant fee-paid judges

1.6.23B

1.6.23B.1

This paragraph applies where—

1.6.23B.1.a

a relevant fee-paid judge “R” has relevant service in a judicial office;

1.6.23B.1.b

R has, during the period of relevant service, made any added pension payments
under this Part; and

1.6.23B.1.c

a request has not been made in respect of R under regulation 40 of the 2023
Regulations.

1.6.23B.2

R is deemed to have been an active member of this scheme for all purposes in
connection with the added pension payments.

.

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions (Additional Voluntary Contributions) Regulations 2017

2

2.1

The Judicial Pensions (Additional Voluntary Contributions) Regulations 2017
are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 2  (interpretation)—

2.2.a

the existing text is numbered as paragraph (1);

2.2.b

in paragraph (1) (as mentioned in paragraph (a) above), for the definition of
“active member” substitute—

      “ active member ” has the meaning given in paragraph (2);

;

2.2.c

after paragraph (1) (as mentioned in paragraph (a) above) insert—

2.2.c.2

In these Regulations, “ active member ” means a person who—

2.2.c.2.a

is in pensionable service under the 2015 Scheme or the 2022 Scheme;

2.2.c.2.b

would have been in pensionable service under the 2015 Scheme in the period
beginning with 1st April 2015 and ending with 31st March 2022 if—

2.2.c.2.b.i

a legacy scheme election had not been made in respect of the person under
section 40 of the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022
(“PSPJOA 2022”); or

2.2.c.2.b.ii

an immediate detriment remedy had not been obtained in relation to the
person’s remediable service in a judicial office; or

2.2.c.2.c

is a relevant fee-paid judge with relevant service.

2.2.c.3

A person who satisfies—

2.2.c.3.a

paragraph (2)(b) is an “active member” for the period of their remediable
service;

2.2.c.3.b

paragraph (2)(c) is an “active member” for the period of their relevant
service.

2.2.c.4

For the purpose of paragraph (2)(b), an “immediate detriment remedy” has been
obtained in relation to a person’s remediable service if either of the
conditions in section 68(2) or (3) of PSPJOA 2022 is met.

2.2.c.5

In paragraph (2)—

      “ a legacy scheme election ” has the meaning given in section 40 of
PSPJOA 2022;           “ relevant fee-paid judge ” has the meaning given in
section 103 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ relevant service ” has the meaning
given in regulation 29(2) of the Judicial Pensions (Remediable Service etc.)
Regulations 2023;           “ remediable service ” has the meaning given in
section 39 of PSPJOA 2022.

.

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017

3

3.1

The FPJR 2017 are amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

3.2.a

after the opening words insert—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022;

;

3.2.b

after the definition of “the 1995 Regulations” insert—

      “ the 2023 Regulations ” means the Judicial Pensions (Remediable Service
etc.) Regulations 2023;

;

3.2.c

after the definition of “the post-1995 provisions” insert—

      “ a 2015 scheme election ” has the meaning given in section 44 of PSPJOA
2022;

;

3.2.d

after the definition of “registered pension scheme” insert—

      “ remediable service ” has the meaning given in section 39 of PSPJOA
2022;

.

3.3

In the closing words of regulation 31(2) (annual rate of pension under
regulation 30), for “amount of the pension credit” substitute  “sum of the
amount of the pension credit and the amount of any remediable pension credit
or remediable pension reduction under Part 5 of the 2023 Regulations” .

3.4

After regulation 31(2) insert—

3.4.2A

In paragraph (2)—

3.4.2A.a

“remediable pension credit”, in the circumstances mentioned in—

3.4.2A.a.i

regulation 48 of the 2023 Regulations, has the meaning given in regulation
49(5) of those Regulations;

3.4.2A.a.ii

regulation 51 of the 2023 Regulations, has the meaning given in regulation
52(3) of those Regulations;

3.4.2A.a.iii

regulation 55 of the 2023 Regulations, has the meaning given in regulation
56(12) of those Regulations;

3.4.2A.b

“ remediable pension reduction ” has the meaning given in regulation 56(12) of
the 2023 Regulations.

.

3.5

In regulation 64 (payment of contribution)—

3.5.a

the existing text is numbered as paragraph (1);

3.5.b

after that paragraph (1) insert—

3.5.b.2

A contribution payable under section 52(4) of PSPJOA 2022 is to be paid in
accordance with regulation 66 of the 2023 Regulations.

.

3.6

After regulation 104 (membership) insert—

############ Deemed FPJAYS membership where a 2015 scheme election is made

3.6.104A

3.6.104A.1

This regulation applies where—

3.6.104A.1.a

a person (“ P ”) has remediable service in an eligible fee-paid judicial
office;

3.6.104A.1.b

P has, during the period of remediable service, paid contributions to purchase
added years under this Part; and

3.6.104A.1.c

a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of P.

3.6.104A.2

P is deemed to have been an active FPJAYS member in respect of the
contributions.

.

3.7

After regulation 117 (membership) insert—

############ Deemed JASAPS membership where a 2015 scheme election is made

3.7.117A

3.7.117A.1

This regulation applies where—

3.7.117A.1.a

a person (“ P ”) has remediable service in an eligible fee-paid judicial
office;

3.7.117A.1.b

P has, during the period of remediable service, paid contributions to purchase
added surviving adult’s pension under this Part; and

3.7.117A.1.c

a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of P.

3.7.117A.2

P is deemed to have been an active JASAPS member in respect of the
contributions.

.

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2022

4

In Schedule 1 to the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2022 , for paragraph 14(1)
substitute—

4.1

This paragraph applies to a transition member with continuity of service (T)
who—

4.1.a

is a member of the 2015 scheme by virtue of T’s pensionable service under that
scheme before the transition date; or

4.1.b

is deemed to have been an active member of the 2015 scheme by virtue of
regulations 38A(2) or 38B(2) of, or paragraphs 23A(2) or 23B(2) of Schedule 1
to, the 2015 Regulations.

.

##### Amendments for other purposes

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions (Contributions) Regulations 1998

5

5.1

In regulation 6(1) of the Judicial Pensions (Contributions) Regulations 1998 ,
for “office holder’s pension-capped” substitute  “first £150,000 of the office
holder’s” .

5.2

The amendment made by sub-paragraph (1) has effect on and after 1st April
2016.

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017

6

6.1

In Table 3 in Schedule 3 to FPJR 2017 , in the entry in the fourth column of
the last row (the first column of which contains the entry “150,001 and
above”), for “1.80” substitute  “0.00” .

6.2

The amendment made by sub-paragraph (1) has effect on and after 1st April
2016.

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) (Amendment) Regulations 2021

7

7.1

In regulation 10(1) of the Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) (Amendment)
Regulations 2021 , for sub-paragraph (a) substitute—

7.1.a

by way of a lump sum—

7.1.a.i

at any time during the period beginning on 1st April 2021 and ending at the
end of 31st March 2025, or

7.1.a.ii

at such later time as the administrators consider reasonable in all the
circumstances;

.

7.2

The amendment made by sub-paragraph (1) has effect on and after 1st April
2021.

###### Amendment of the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2022

8

8.1

The Judicial Pensions Regulations 2022 are amended as follows with effect from
1st April 2022.

8.2

In regulation 21 (calculation of “retirement index adjustment”)—

8.2.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

8.2.a.1

The retirement index adjustment for an amount of accrued pension is—



      where—         “ amount of accrued pension ” means an amount of any
description of accrued pension;           “ retirement index percentage ”
means the retirement index percentage calculated under paragraph (2).

;

8.2.b

in paragraph (2), in the definition of “A”, for “index adjustment” substitute
“in-service revaluation index” ;

8.2.c

after paragraph (2) insert—

8.2.c.3

In paragraph (2), “ in-service revaluation index ”, in relation to a pension
scheme, means the percentage increase or decrease by which the pensionable
earnings of a person, or a proportion of those earnings accrued as a pension,
are revalued whilst the person is in pensionable service in that pension
scheme.

.

8.3

In regulation 24(2)(a) (calculation of amount of accrued standard earned
pension), omit “retirement”.

8.4

In regulation 39(2) (amount of full retirement pension)—

8.4.a

omit the “and” immediately after sub-paragraph (a);

8.4.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) insert—

; and

8.4.b.c

the retirement index adjustment for the accrued amount

.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Public Service Pensions Act  2013 (c. 25)  (“PSPA 2013”) makes
provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “
scheme regulations ” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2013), about the
establishment of public service pension schemes. The Judicial Pensions
Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/182 ) (“ the 2015 Regulations ”) are the scheme
regulations establishing the successor judicial pension scheme (“ the 2015
scheme ”) to the judicial legacy schemes (as defined in section 70(3) of the
Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA
2022”)). The 2015 Regulations provided for transitional protection for certain
cohorts of judicial legacy scheme members. This transitional protection was
subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between judicial pension scheme
members on the basis of age.

  The PSPJOA 2022, at Chapter 2, makes provision, and confers powers for
scheme regulations under PSPA 2013 to make further provision, in relation to
specified service (“ remediable service ” as defined in section 39 of PSPJOA
2022) of members who benefitted from transitional protection, and of members
who did not benefit from transitional protection only by reason of their age.
Section 62 of PSPJOA 2022 requires certain powers to make scheme regulations
to be exercised in accordance with Treasury directions.

  These Regulations are scheme regulations under PSPA 2013 and in accordance
with PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in the judicial
legacy schemes and in the 2015 scheme. They are, to the extent required by
section 62 of PSPJOA 2022, made in accordance with Treasury directions under
that section (in the form of the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers,
Compensation and Information) Directions 2022). These Regulations have
retrospective effect, which is authorised by section 3(3)(b) of PSPA 2013.

  Part 1 of these Regulations contains provision about, among other things,
governance, including the delegation of functions, a requirement to establish
a procedure for consideration of appeals, and the relationship between the
scheme manager and the Judicial Pension Board when exercising a discretion.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision about special cases where a
member has remediable service and an immediate detriment remedy (within the
meaning of section 68 of PSPJOA 2022) has not been obtained in relation to
that service—     a     Chapter 2 makes provision about cases where a member
makes an election for legacy scheme benefits and they have previously
exercised, in relation to their remediable service, options to purchase
additional rights in the 2015 scheme, or to transfer rights out of the 2015
scheme;         b     Chapter 3 makes provision about cases where a member has
previously exercised a partial retirement option under either the 2015 scheme
or the judicial legacy fee-paid scheme (as defined in section 70(5) of PSPJOA
2022), and the member makes an election for benefits in the other scheme;
c     Chapter 4 makes provision about the payment by a judicial scheme of
annual allowance charges.

  Part 3 makes provision about cases where an immediate detriment remedy has
been obtained in relation to a member’s remediable service—     a     Chapter
2 makes provision about the provision of information in relation to a member’s
rights and liabilities under PSPJOA 2022 and these Regulations;         b
Chapter 3 makes provision about a requirement to transfer and surrender rights
in relation to any remediable service that is PPA opted-out service (as
defined in section 73(2) of PSPJOA 2022);         c     Chapter 4 makes
provision about the benefits payable to a child survivor of a member who died
before the immediate detriment remedy was obtained;         d     Chapter 5
makes provision about a partial retirement option exercised in respect of a
fee-paid judicial office;         e     Chapters 6 and 7 make provision about
the treatment, including the correction, of benefits and contributions
previously paid or payable;         f     Chapter 8 makes provision about the
payment of compensation for voluntary contributions paid to purchase
additional pension rights;         g     Chapter 9 makes provision about the
repayment of a transitional protection allowance (as defined in section 54(4)
of PSPJOA 2022);         h     Chapter 10 makes provision about the payment of
compensation;         i     Chapter 11 makes provision about unauthorised
payments (within the meaning of section 63(5) of PSPJOA 2022).

  Part 4 makes provision in relation to certain fee-paid judges which is
similar to the provision made by Part 3 in relation to cases where an
immediate detriment remedy has been obtained.

  Part 5 makes provision about cases in which the value of pension rights
secured by virtue of a member’s remediable service are to be shared under a
pension sharing order in accordance with section 29 of the Welfare Reform and
Pensions Act  1999 (c. 30) . It provides, in particular, for the calculation
or, where appropriate, the re-calculation of the value of a pension debit and
a pension credit in relation to the rights.

  Part 6 makes provision about any amounts owed to or by a person as a result
of PSPJOA 2022, these Regulations or an immediate detriment remedy—     a
Chapter 1 makes provision about the calculation of interest;         b
Chapter 2 makes provision about the reduction and waiver of an amount owed, in
particular a requirement for the scheme manager to reduce some amounts by tax
relief amounts and the discretion of the scheme manager to reduce or waive
relevant amounts owed by a person to a scheme in certain circumstances;
c     Chapter 3 makes provision about netting off amounts owed to and by a
person;         d     Chapter 4 makes provision about when and how relevant
amounts must be paid.

  Part 7, together with the Schedule, makes provision amending other
legislation—     a     Part 1 of the Schedule amends various instruments by
virtue of, and in consequence of, PSPJOA 2022 and in consequence of these
Regulations;         b     Part 2—     i     at paragraphs 5 and 6, amends the
Judicial Pensions (Contributions) Regulations 1998 ( S.I. 1998/1219 ) and the
Judicial Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/522 ) to
adjust the rate payable in relation to dependants contributions with effect
from 1st April 2016;         ii     at paragraph 7, amends the Judicial
Pensions (Fee-Paid Judges) (Amendment) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/444 ) to
expand the window during which a previous service contributions amount owed
under those Regulations may be paid by way of a lump sum;         iii     at
paragraph 8, amends the Judicial Pensions Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/319 )
in relation to the calculation of the retirement adjustment index with effect
from 1st April 2022.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.
An Explanatory Memorandum has been published alongside these Regulations on
http://www.legislation.gov.uk .

