Title: The Social Security (Habitual Residence and Past Presence, and Capital Disregards) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-01-26
Description: Regulation 1 provides for citation, commencement and interpretation.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/184

## The Social Security (Habitual Residence and Past Presence, and Capital Disregards) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   27th October 2023

  Coming into operation   28th October 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 64(1), 70(4), 71(6), 122(1)(a)
and (d), 129A(2), 131(1), 132(3) and (4), 132A(3), 133(2)(a) and 171(1), (3)
and (4) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992 , Articles 6(5), 14(1) and (4) of, and paragraph 11(2) of Schedule 1
to, the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , and now vested in it ,
sections 1(5)(a), 15(3) and (6) and 19(1) to (3) of the State Pension Credit
Act (Northern Ireland) 2002 , section 17(1) and (3) of, and paragraph 5 of
Schedule 2 to, the Welfare Reform Act (Northern Ireland) 2007  and Articles
9(5)(a), 48(1) and (2), 82(3), 97(1), 99(1)(a) of, and paragraphs 4(1) and (3)
of Schedule 1 to, the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 .
Regulations 2(2)(d) and (e), 6 and 7 are made with the consent of the
Department of Finance .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Habitual Residence and
Past Presence, and Capital Disregards) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 28th October 2023.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the habitual residence test in income-related benefit legislation


2

2.1

In the provisions specified in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph (zzd)
insert—

2.1.zze

a person who was residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East
Jerusalem, the Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7th October 2023,
who left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan
Heights or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on
7th October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region
following the attack and—

2.1.zze.i

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 ;

2.1.zze.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act ; or

2.1.zze.iii

does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with section 3ZA of that Act ;

.

2.2

Those provisions are—

2.2.a

regulation 21AA(4) of the Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987  (special cases: supplemental–persons from abroad);

2.2.b

regulation 85A(4) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland)
1996  (special cases: supplemental–persons from abroad);

2.2.c

regulation 2(4) of the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2003  (persons not in Northern Ireland);

2.2.d

regulation 10(5) of the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006
(persons from abroad);

2.2.e

regulation 10(5) of the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the
qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006
(persons from abroad);

2.2.f

regulation 70(4) of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2008  (special cases: supplemental – persons from abroad).

2.3

In regulation 9(4) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016
(persons treated as not being in Northern Ireland), after sub-paragraph (zd)
insert—

2.3.ze

a person who was residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East
Jerusalem, the Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7th October 2023,
who left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan
Heights or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on
7th October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region
following the attack and—

2.3.ze.i

has been granted leave in accordance with the immigration rules made under
section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971,

2.3.ze.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act, or

2.3.ze.iii

does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with section 3ZA of that Act,

.

### Amendment of the Income Support Regulations


3

3.1

The Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987  are amended
in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

3.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

3.2.a

in the definition of “qualifying person”  after “the National Emergencies
Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme” ;

3.2.b

after the definition of “vaccine damage payment”  insert—

      “ the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme ” means the
scheme of that name established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 under
section 47 of the Crime and Security Act 2010 ;

.

3.3

In the provisions specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c), after the “National
Emergencies Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation
Scheme” —

3.3.a

regulation 48(10)(c)  (income treated as capital);

3.3.b

regulation 51(3A)(a)  (notional capital);

3.3.c

paragraphs 22(1)  and (7)  of Schedule 10 (capital to be disregarded).

### Amendment of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations


4

4.1

The Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

4.2

In regulation 1(2) (citation, commencement, interpretation and application )—

4.2.a

in the definition of “qualifying person”  after “the National Emergencies
Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme” ;

4.2.b

after the definition of “vaccine damage payment”  insert—

      “ the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme ” means the
scheme of that name established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 under
section 47 of the Crime and Security Act 2010;

.

4.3

In the provisions specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c), after “the National
Emergencies Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation
Scheme” —

4.3.a

regulation 110(10)(c)  (income treated as capital);

4.3.b

regulation 113(3A)(a)  (notional capital);

4.3.c

paragraph 27(1)  of Schedule 7 (capital to be disregarded).

### Amendment of the State Pension Credit Regulations


5

5.1

The State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

5.2

In regulation 1(2) (citation, commencement and interpretation)—

5.2.a

in the definition of “qualifying person”  after “the National Emergencies
Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme” ;

5.2.b

after the definition of “vaccine damage payment”  insert—

      “ the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme ” means the
scheme of that name established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 under
section 47 of the Crime and Security Act 2010;

.

5.3

In the provisions specified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), after “the National
Emergencies Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation
Scheme” —

5.3.a

paragraph 14(8)(b)  of Schedule 2 (housing costs);

5.3.b

paragraph 15(1)  and (7)  of Schedule 5 (income from capital).

### Amendment of the Housing Benefit Regulations


6

6.1

The Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

6.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

6.2.a

in the definition of “qualifying person”  after “the National Emergencies
Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme” ;

6.2.b

after the definition of “vaccine damage payment”  insert—

      “ the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme ” means the
scheme of that name established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 under
section 47 of the Crime and Security Act 2010;

.

6.3

In the provisions specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (d), after “the National
Emergencies Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation
Scheme” —

6.3.a

regulation 43(6)  (income treated as capital);

6.3.b

regulation 46(4)(a)  (notional capital);

6.3.c

regulation 72(9)(b)  (non-dependant deductions);

6.3.d

paragraph 25(1)  and (7)  of Schedule 7 (capital to be disregarded).

### Amendment of the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations


7

7.1

The Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying age for state
pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006  are amended in accordance
with paragraphs (2) and (3).

7.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

7.2.a

in the definition of “qualifying person”  after “the National Emergencies
Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme” ;

7.2.b

after the definition of “vaccine damage payment”  insert—

      “ the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme ” means the
scheme of that name established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 under
section 47 of the Crime and Security Act 2010;

.

7.3

In the provisions specified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), after “the National
Emergencies Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation
Scheme” —

7.3.a

regulation 53(10)(b)  (non-dependant deductions);

7.3.b

paragraph 16(1)(a)  of Schedule 7 (capital to be disregarded).

### Amendment of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations


8

8.1

The Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008  are
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

8.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

8.2.a

in the definition of “qualifying person”  after “the National Emergencies
Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme” ;

8.2.b

after the definition of “vaccine damage payment”  insert—

      “ the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme ” means the
scheme of that name established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 under
section 47 of the Crime and Security Act 2010;

.

8.3

In the provisions specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c), after “the National
Emergencies Trust” insert  “, the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation
Scheme” —

8.3.a

regulation 112(8)(a)  (income treated as capital);

8.3.b

regulation 115(5)(a)  (notional capital);

8.3.c

paragraph 27(1)  and (7)  of Schedule 9 (capital to be disregarded).

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations


9

In Regulation 76(1A)  of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016  (special schemes for compensation etc.) after sub-paragraph (e)  add—

9.f

the Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme established by the
Ministry of Justice in 2012 under section 47 of the Crime and Security Act
2010.

.

### Amendment of disability and carer’s benefit legislation


10

10.1

In the provisions specified in paragraph (2)—

10.1.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (f)  omit “or”;

10.1.b

after sub-paragraph (g)  add—

or

10.1.b.h

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside the
immigration rules, a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning
given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA of that
Act, where the person—

10.1.b.h.i

was residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the
Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7th October 2023; and

10.1.b.h.ii

left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan Heights
or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on 7th
October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region following
the attack.

.

10.2

Those provisions are—

10.2.a

regulation 9C(1) of the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1976  (refugees and certain persons with leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom );

10.2.b

regulation 2C(1) of the Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1992  (refugees and certain persons with leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom);

10.2.c

regulation 2C(1) of the Social Security (Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992  (refugees and certain persons with leave
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom).

### Amendment of the Personal Independence Payment Regulations


11

In regulation 23A(1) of the Personal Independence Payment Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016  (refuges and certain persons with leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom )—

11.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (f)  omit “or”;

11.b

after sub-paragraph (g)  add—

or

11.b.h

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside the
immigration rules, a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning
given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA of that
Act, where C—

11.b.h.i

was residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the
Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7th October 2023; and

11.b.h.ii

left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan Heights
or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on 7th
October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region following
the attack.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 27th
October 2023       (L.S.)   Patrick Rooney   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities           The Department of Finance hereby consents
to regulations 2(2)(d) and (e), 6 and 7       Sealed with the Official Seal of
the Department of Finance on 27th October 2023       (L.S.)   Barry Armstrong
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Regulation 1 provides for citation, commencement and interpretation.

  Regulations 2 to 9 enable certain persons to access income-related benefits
upon arrival in Northern Ireland from Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip,
East Jerusalem, the Golan Heights or Lebanon provided they meet the other
relevant entitlement conditions. It also provides that any payments from the
Victims of Overseas Terrorism Compensation Scheme (“ the Scheme ”) established
by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 are to be disregarded for certain social
security purposes.

  Those regulations amend the Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987, the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996,
the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 (“ the State
Pension Credit Regulations ”), the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006, the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying
age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006, the
Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 and the
Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (“ the Universal Credit
Regulations ”) - “the income-related benefit regulations”.

  The income-related benefit regulations provide that a person is ineligible
for benefit where he or she is a “person from abroad”, “ a person not in
Northern Ireland ” (for the purposes of the State Pension Credit Regulations),
or “ a person treated as not being in Northern Ireland ” (for the purposes of
the Universal Credit Regulations); that is to say where the person is not
habitually resident in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of
Man or the Republic of Ireland, subject to a list of exemptions.

  Regulation 2 inserts a new category into the list of persons who are
exempted from having to satisfy the habitual residence test. Those persons are
those who were residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East
Jerusalem, the Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7th October 2023,
who left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan
Heights or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on
7th October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region
following the attack and who—     a     have been granted leave in accordance
with immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971;
b     have a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in
section 2 of that Act; or         c     do not require leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA of that Act.

  Regulations 3 to 9 amend the income-related benefit regulations to provide
that payments from the Scheme established by the Ministry of Justice in 2012
are not to be taken into account in the calculation of capital.

  Regulations 10 and 11 enable certain persons to access disability and
carer’s benefits upon arrival in Northern Ireland where they were residing in
Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan Heights or
Lebanon and left in accordance with the criteria above, provided they meet the
other relevant entitlement conditions.

  Regulation 10 amends the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1976, the Social Security (Attendance
Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992 and the Social Security
(Disability Living Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992
respectively, and regulation 11 amends the Personal Independence Payment
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 to exempt the same group of people from
the past presence test. This is the test which normally has to be fulfilled in
order to claim Carer’s Allowance, Attendance Allowance, Disability Living
Allowance and Personal Independence Payment. The past presence test normally
requires that an individual has been present in Northern Ireland for a
specified period of time to be eligible for those benefits. The amendments
also have the effect of removing the habitual residence requirement for
entitlement to disability and carer’s benefits which would otherwise apply to
these persons.

  These regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the
requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

