Title: The Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: This Order authorises Longfield Solar Energy Farm Limited (referred to in this Order as the undertaker) to construct, operate, maintain and decommission a ground mounted solar photovoltaic generating station with a gross electrical output capacity over 50 megawatts and associated development. The Order would permit the undertaker to acquire, compulsorily or by agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/734

## The Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   26th June 2023

  Coming into force   18th July 2023

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008 (“ the 2008 Act ”)  in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an order granting development consent.       The
application has been examined by the Examining Authority appointed by the
Secretary of State pursuant to Chapter 3 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and carried
out in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the Infrastructure Planning
(Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The Examining Authority, having
considered the application together with the documents that accompanied it,
and the representations made and not withdrawn, has, in accordance with
section 74(2)  of the 2008 Act made a report and recommendation to the
Secretary of State.       The Secretary of State has considered the report and
recommendation of the Examining Authority, has taken into account the
environmental information in accordance with regulation 4 of the
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017
and has had regard to the documents and matters referred to in section 105(2)
of the 2008 Act.       The Secretary of State, having decided the application,
has determined to make an Order granting development consent for the
development described in the application on terms that in the opinion of the
Secretary of State are not materially different from those proposed in the
application.           The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114 , 115 , 120 , 122 , 123  and 140 of the 2008 Act,
makes the following Order.

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023 and comes into
force on 18th July 2023.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

      “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;           “ the
1965 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;           “ the 1980 Act ”
means the Highways Act 1980 ;           “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;           “ the 1984 Act ” means
the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ the 1989 Act ” means the
Electricity Act 1989 ;           “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990 ;           “ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street
Works Act 1991 ;           “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;
“ address ” includes any number or address used for the purposes of electronic
transmission;           “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act except that, unless
otherwise provided, it further includes pipelines (and parts of them), aerial
markers, cathodic protection test posts, field boundary markers, transformer
rectifier kiosks, electricity cables, telecommunications equipment and
electricity cabinets;           “ authorised development ” means the
development and associated development described in Schedule 1 (authorised
development), which is development within the meaning of section 32 (meaning
of “ development ”) of the 2008 Act;           “ biodiversity design strategy
” means the document of that name identified in the table at Schedule 13
(documents and plans to be certified) and which is certified by the Secretary
of State as the biodiversity design strategy for the purposes of this Order;
“ book of reference ” means the document of that name identified in the table
at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is certified by
the Secretary of State as the book of reference for the purposes of this
Order;           “ building ” includes any structure or erection or any part
of a building, structure or erection;           “ Bulls Lodge substation works
” means that part of the authorised development identified in work numbers 5,
7B and 9 (to the extent work number 9 is to facilitate access to work numbers
5 and 7B);           “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act;
“ commence ” means beginning to carry out a material operation, as defined in
section 155 (when development begins) of the 2008 Act, comprised in or carried
out or for the purposes of the authorised development other than the permitted
preliminary works (except where stated to the contrary) and the words
“commencement” and “commenced” are to be construed accordingly;           “
commissioning ” means the process of testing all systems and components of
numbered work 1 in order to ensure that they, and the authorised development
as a whole, function in accordance with plant design specifications and the
undertaker’s operational and safety requirements;           “ date of final
commissioning ” means in respect of each phase of the authorised development
as approved under requirement 3 of Schedule 2 (requirements) that contains
part or all of numbered work 1, the date on which each such phase commences
operation by generating electricity on a commercial basis but excluding the
generation of electricity during commissioning;           “ decommissioning
strategy ” means the document of that name identified in the table at Schedule
13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is certified by the
Secretary of State as the decommissioning strategy for the purposes of this
Order;           “ electronic transmission ” means a communication
transmitted—         by means of an electronic communications network; or
by other means but while in electronic form;                 “ environmental
statement ” means the document of that name identified in the table in
Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is certified by
the Secretary of State as the environmental statement for the purposes of this
Order;           “ flood risk assessment ” means the document of that name
identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified)
and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the flood risk assessment
for the purposes of this Order;           “ footpath ” and “ footway ” have
the same meaning as in the 1980 Act;           “ framework construction
traffic management plan ” means the document of that name identified in the
table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is
certified by the Secretary of State as the framework construction traffic
management plan for the purposes of this Order;           “ grid connection
works ” means that part of the authorised development identified in work
numbers 4 and 9 (to the extent work number 9 is to facilitate access to work
number 4);           “ highway ” and “ highway authority ” have the same
meaning as in the 1980 Act ;           “ holding company ” has the same
meaning as in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 ;           “ land plans
” means sheets 1 – 9 of the plans of that name identified in the table in
Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which are certified by
the Secretary of State as the land plans for the purposes of this Order;
“ limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation shown for each numbered
work on the works plans;           “ maintain ” includes inspect, repair,
adjust, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace and improve any part
of, but not remove, reconstruct or replace the whole of, the authorised
development and “maintenance” and “maintaining” are to be construed
accordingly;           “ NGET ” means National Grid Electricity Transmission
Plc (company number 2366977) whose registered office is at 1 to 3 Strand,
London WC2N 5EH;           “ Order land ” means the land shown coloured pink,
green, blue and brown on the land plans which is within the limits of land to
be acquired or used and described in the book of reference;           “ Order
limits ” means the limits shown on the land plans and works plans within which
the authorised development may be carried out and land acquired or used;
“ outline battery safety management plan ” means the plan of that name
identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified)
and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the outline battery safety
management plan for the purposes of this Order;           “ outline
construction environmental management plan ” means the document of that name
identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified)
and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the outline construction
environmental management plan for the purposes of this Order;           “
outline design principles ” means the document of that name identified in the
table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is
certified by the Secretary of State as the outline design principles for the
purposes of this Order;           “ outline drainage strategy ” means-
section 4 of the SuDS strategy as identified in the table at Schedule 13
(documents and plans to be certified) and which is certified by the Secretary
of State as the outline drainage strategy for the purposes of the solar farm
works and the grid connection works under this Order; and           section 3
of the Bulls Lodge substation extension drainage strategy as identified in the
table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is
certified by the Secretary of State as the outline drainage strategy for the
purposes of the Bulls Lodge substation works under this Order;
“ outline landscape and ecological management plan ” means the document of
that name identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be
certified) and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the outline
landscape and ecological management plan for the purposes of this Order;
“ outline operational environmental management plan ” means the document of
that name identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be
certified) and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the outline
operational environmental management plan for the purposes of this Order;
“ outline public rights of way management plan ” means the document of that
name identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be
certified) and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the outline
public rights of way management plan for the purposes of this Order;
“ outline soils resource management plan ” means the document of that name
identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified)
and which is certified by the Secretary of State as the outline soils resource
management plan for the purposes of this Order;           “ overarching
written scheme of investigation ” means the document of that name identified
in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is
certified by the Secretary of State as the overarching written scheme of
investigation for the purposes of this Order;           “ owner ”, in relation
to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 (interpretation) of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;           “ Park Farm planning permission ”
means planning permission CHL 1890/87 granted by Essex County Council on 15
June 1990 (as amended);           “ permissive paths plans ” means the plans
of that name identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be
certified) and which are certified by the Secretary of State as the permissive
paths plans for the purposes of this Order;           “ permitted preliminary
works ” means all or any of—         environmental surveys, geotechnical
surveys, intrusive archaeological surveys and other investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions and removal of plant and machinery;
above ground site preparation for temporary facilities for the use of
contractors;           remedial work in respect of any contamination or other
adverse ground conditions;           diversion of existing services and the
laying of temporary services;           the provision of temporary means of
enclosure and site security for construction;           the temporary display
of site notices or advertisements; or           site clearance (including
vegetation removal, demolition of structures);                 “ plot ” means
any plot as may be identified by reference to a number and which is listed in
the book of reference and shown on the land plans;           “ relevant
planning authority ” means the local planning authority for the area in which
the land to which the provisions of this Order apply is situated;           “
requirements ” means those matters set out in Schedule 2 (requirements) and “
requirement ” means any one of the requirements;           “ solar farm works
” means that part of the authorised development identified in work numbers 1,
2, 3, 6, 7A, 8, 9 (to the extent work number 9 is to facilitate access to work
numbers 1, 2, 3, 6, 7A, 8 and 10), and 10;           “ statutory undertaker ”
means any person falling within section 127(8) (statutory undertakers’ land)
of the 2008 Act and includes a public communications provider defined by
section 151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003 ;
“ street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 (streets, street
works and undertakers) of the 1991 Act, together with land on the verge of a
street or between two carriageways, and includes any footpath and part of a
street;           “ street authority ”, in relation to a street, has the same
meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act ;           “ streets, access and rights
of way plans ” means the plans of that name identified in the table at
Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which are certified by
the Secretary of State as the streets, access and rights of way plans for the
purposes of this Order;           “ street works ” means the works listed in
article  8(1)  (street works);           “ subsidiary ” has the same meaning
as in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 ;           “ traffic authority ”
has the same meaning as in section 121A (traffic authorities) of the 1984 Act
;           “ traffic regulation measures plans ” means the plans of that name
identified in the table at Schedule 13 (documents to be certified) and which
are certified by the Secretary of State as the traffic regulation measures
plans;           “ undertaker ” means Longfield Solar Energy Farm Limited
(company number 11618210);           “ Upper Tribunal ” means the Lands
Chamber of the Upper Tribunal;           “ watercourse ” includes every river,
stream, creek, ditch, drain, canal, cut, culvert, dyke, sluice, sewer and
passage through which water flows except a public sewer or drain;           “
vegetation removal plan ” means the plan of that name identified in the table
at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which is certified by
the Secretary of State as the vegetation removal plan for the purposes of this
Order;           “ works plans ” means the plans of that name identified in
the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) and which are
certified by the Secretary of State as the works plans for the purposes of
this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or restrain or to place and maintain anything in, on or under land or in
the airspace above its surface and to any trusts or incidents (including
restrictive covenants) to which the land is subject and references in this
Order to the imposition of restrictive covenants are references to the
creation of rights over land which interfere with the interests or rights of
another and are for the benefit of land which is acquired under this Order or
over which rights are created and acquired under this Order or is otherwise
comprised in this Order.

2.3

All distances, directions, capacities and lengths referred to in this Order
are approximate and distances between lines or points on a numbered work
comprised in the authorised development and shown on the works plans and
streets, access and rights of way plans and traffic regulation measures plans
are to be taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works
comprising the authorised development as numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised
development) and shown on the works plans and a reference in this Order to a
work designated by a number, or by a combination of letters and numbers, is a
reference to the work so designated in that Schedule and a reference to “Work
No. 2” or “ numbered work 2 ” means numbered works 2A and 2B inclusive and the
same principle applies to such numbered works that contain letters.

2.5

In this Order, the expression “ includes ” is to be construed without
limitation.

2.6

In this Order, references to any statutory body include that body’s successor
bodies.

2.7

All areas described in square metres in the book of reference are approximate.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by this Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and the requirements, the undertaker
is granted development consent for the authorised development to be carried
out within the Order limits.

3.2

Each numbered work must be situated within the corresponding numbered area
shown on the works plans and within the limits of deviation.

#### Operation of generating station

4

4.1

The undertaker is authorised to use and operate the generating station
comprised in the authorised development.

4.2

This article does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any
permit or licence under any other legislation that may be required from time
to time to authorise the operation of an electricity generating station.

#### Power to maintain authorised development

5

5.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development.

5.2

This article only authorises the carrying out of maintenance works within the
Order limits.

5.3

This article does not authorise the carrying out of any works which are likely
to give rise to any materially new or materially different effects that have
not been assessed in the environmental statement.

#### Application and modification of statutory provisions

6

6.1

The following provisions do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation required for the purposes of, or in
connection with, the construction, operation, maintenance or decommissioning
of any part of the authorised development—

6.1.a

section 23 (prohibition of obstructions, etc. in watercourses) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ;

6.1.b

section 32 (variation of awards)  of the Land Drainage Act 1991;

6.1.c

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66  (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991;

6.1.d

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraphs 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (bylaw making powers of the authority) to
the Water Resources Act 1991 ;

6.1.e

section 118 (consent request for discharge of trade effluent into public
sewer) of the Water Industry Act 1991;

6.1.f

regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 ;

6.1.g

the legislation listed in Schedule 3 (legislation to be disapplied) in so far
as the provisions still in force are incompatible with the powers contained
within this Order; and

6.1.h

the provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to the temporary possession of land under articles  27  (temporary use of land
for constructing the authorised development) and  28  (temporary use of land
for maintaining the authorised development) of this Order.

6.2

For the purposes of section 9 (requirement of licence for felling) of the
Forestry Act 1967  any felling comprised in the carrying out of any work or
operation required for the purposes of, or in connection with, the
construction of the authorised development is deemed to be immediately
required for the purpose of carrying out development authorised by planning
permission granted under the 1990 Act.

6.3

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 208 (liability) of the 2008 Act, for
the purposes of regulation 6 (meaning of “ development ”) of the Community
Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010  any building comprised in the authorised
development is deemed to be—

6.3.a

a building into which people do not normally go; or

6.3.b

a building into which people go only intermittently for the purpose of
inspecting or maintaining fixed plant or machinery.

6.4

As from the date on which the permitted preliminary works are carried out or
the authorised development is commenced, whichever is the earlier, any
conditions of the Park Farm planning permission that relate to the land at
plot 1/2C cease to have effect to the extent that they are inconsistent with
the authorised development or with anything done or approved under Schedule 2
(requirements).

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

7

7.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by a
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance)
of that Act no order may be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section
82(2) of that Act if—

7.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

7.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised development and that the nuisance is attributable to the
construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the authorised development in
accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of noise on
construction site), or a consent given under section 61 (prior consent for
work on construction site) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974; or

7.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

7.1.b

the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the authorised development and
that it cannot be reasonably avoided.

7.2

Section 61(9) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974, does not apply where the
consent relates to the use of the premises by the undertaker for purposes of,
or in connection with, the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised development.

### STREETS

#### Street Works

8

8.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets specified in Schedule 4 (streets subject to
street works) and may—

8.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

8.1.b

drill, tunnel or bore under the street;

8.1.c

place and keep apparatus under the street;

8.1.d

maintain apparatus under the street, change its position or remove it;

8.1.e

repair, replace or otherwise alter the surface or structure of the street or
any culvert under the street; and

8.1.f

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs  (a)  to  (e) .

8.2

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  is a statutory right or licence for the
purposes of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

8.3

Where the undertaker is not the street authority, the provisions of sections
54 (notice of certain works) to 106 (index of defined expressions) of the 1991
Act apply to any street works carried out until paragraph  (1) .

#### Power to alter layout, etc., of streets

9

9.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of the authorised development alter the
layout of or carry out any works in the street—

9.1.a

in the case of the streets specified in column 2 of the table in Part 1
(permanent alteration of layout and maintained by the highway authority) and
Part 2 (permanent alteration of layout and maintained by the street authority)
of Schedule 5 (alteration of streets) permanently in the manner specified in
relation to that street in column 3; and

9.1.b

in the case of the streets as specified in column 2 of the table in Part 3
(temporary alteration of layout) of Schedule 5 (alteration of streets)
temporarily in the manner specified in relation to that street in column 3.

9.2

Without prejudice to the specific powers conferred by paragraph  (1) , but
subject to paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) , the undertaker may, for the purposes of
constructing, operating or maintaining the authorised development, alter the
layout of any street and, without limitation on the scope of this paragraph,
the undertaker may—

9.2.a

alter the level or increase the width of any kerb, footway, cycle track or
verge;

9.2.b

make and maintain passing places; and

9.2.c

alter, remove, replace and relocate any street furniture, including bollards,
lighting columns, road signs and chevron signs.

9.3

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this Order to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

9.4

The powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  may not be exercised without the
consent of the street authority.

9.5

Paragraphs  (3)  and  (4)  do not apply where the undertaker is the street
authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

#### Construction and maintenance of altered streets

10

10.1

The permanent alterations to each of the streets specified in Part 1
(permanent alteration of layout and maintained by the highway authority) of
Schedule 5 (alteration of streets) to this Order must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority and, unless otherwise agreed
by the highway authority, the alterations must be maintained by and at the
expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 months from their completion and
from the expiry of that period by and at the expense of the highway authority.

10.2

The permanent alterations to each of the streets specified in Part 2
(permanent alteration of layout and maintained by the street authority) of
Schedule 5 (alteration of streets) to this Order must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and must be maintained by the
undertaker for a period of 12 months from their completion and from the expiry
of that period by and at the expense of the street authority.

10.3

Subject to paragraph  (4) , the temporary alterations to each of the streets
specified in Part 3 (temporary alteration of layout) of Schedule 5 (alteration
of streets) must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street
authority and the temporary alterations must be maintained by and at the
expense of the undertaker.

10.4

Those restoration works carried out pursuant to article  9(3)  (power to alter
layout, etc., of streets) must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of
the street authority and must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of
12 months from their completion and from the expiry of that period by and at
the expense of the street authority.

10.5

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

10.6

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph  (5) , a court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

10.6.a

the character of the street including the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

10.6.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

10.6.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

10.6.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

10.6.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant that the undertaker
had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the maintenance
of that part of the street to which the action relates unless it is also
proved that the undertaker had given that person proper instructions with
regard to the maintenance of the street and that those instructions had been
carried out.

10.7

Paragraphs  (2)  to  (6)  do not apply where the undertaker is the street
authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

#### Temporary closure of public rights of way

11

11.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of constructing or maintaining the
authorised development, may temporarily close, prohibit the use of, restrict
the use of, authorise the use of, alter or divert any public right of way and
may for any reasonable time—

11.1.a

divert the traffic or a class of traffic from the street or public right of
way;

11.1.b

authorise the use of motor vehicles on classes of public rights of way where,
notwithstanding the provisions of this article, there is otherwise no public
right to use motor vehicles; and

11.1.c

subject to paragraph  (2) , prevent all persons from passing along the public
right of way.

11.2

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a public right of way affected by the temporary closure,
prohibition, restriction, alteration or diversion of a public right of way
under this article if there would otherwise be no such access.

11.3

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may
temporarily close, prohibit the use of, authorise the use of, restrict the use
of, alter or divert—

11.3.a

the public rights of way specified in column 2 of the table in Part 1 (public
rights of way to be temporarily closed and diverted) of Schedule 6 (public
rights of way) to the extent specified in column 3 of that table;

11.3.b

the public rights of way specified in column 2 of the table in Part 2
(permanent use of motor vehicles on public right of way) of Schedule 6 (public
rights of way) to the extent specified in column 3 of that table; and

11.3.c

the public rights of way specified in column 2 of the table in Part 3
(temporary management of public rights of way) of Schedule 6 (public rights of
way) to the extent specified in column 3 of that table.

11.4

The undertaker must not temporarily close, prohibit the use of, authorise the
use of, restrict the use of, alter or divert—

11.4.a

any public right of way specified in paragraph  (3)  without first consulting
the street authority; and

11.4.b

any other public right of way without the consent of the street authority, and
the street authority may attach reasonable conditions to any such consent.

11.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

11.6

Without prejudice to the scope of paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may use any
public right of way which has been temporarily closed under the powers
conferred by this article and within the Order limits as a temporary working
site.

11.7

In this article expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the
same meaning.

11.8

Nothing in this article prevents the undertaker from temporarily closing,
prohibiting the use of, authorising the use of, restricting the use of,
altering or diverting a public right of way under this article more than once.

#### Access to works

12

12.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development—

12.1.a

form and lay out the permanent means of access, or improve existing means of
access, in the locations specified in Part 1 (permanent means of access to
works) of Schedule 7 (access to works);

12.1.b

form and lay out the temporary means of access in the location specified in
Part 2 (temporary means of access) of Schedule 7; and

12.1.c

with the prior approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation
with the highway authority, form and lay out such other means of access or
improve existing means of access, at such locations within the Order limits as
the undertaker reasonably requires for the purposes of the authorised
development.

12.2

The undertaker must restore any access that has been temporarily created under
this Order to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

#### Agreements with street authorities

13

13.1

A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect
to—

13.1.a

the strengthening, improvement, repair or reconstruction of any street under
the powers conferred by this Order;

13.1.b

any closure, prohibition, restriction, alteration or diversion of a street
authorised by this Order;

13.1.c

the undertaking in the street of any of the works referred to in article  8
(street works) and article  10(1) (construction and maintenance of altered
streets); or

13.1.d

the adoption by a street authority which is the highway authority of works—

13.1.d.i

undertaken on a street which is existing public maintainable highway; or

13.1.d.ii

which the undertaker and highway authority agree to be adopted as public
maintainable highway.

13.2

If such an agreement provides that the street authority must undertake works
on behalf of the undertaker the agreement may, without prejudice to the
generality of paragraph  (1) —

13.2.a

make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this
Order which relates to the street in question;

13.2.b

specify a reasonable time for the completion of the works; and

13.2.c

contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider
appropriate.

#### Traffic regulation measures

14

14.1

Subject to the provisions of this article the undertaker may at any time, in
the interests of safety and for the purposes of, or in connection with, the
construction of the authorised development, temporarily place traffic signs
and signals in the extents of the road specified in column 2 of the table in
Schedule 8 (traffic regulation measures) and the placing of those traffic
signs and signals is deemed to have been permitted by the traffic authority
for the purposes of section 65 of the 1984 Act and the Traffic Signs
Regulations and General Directions 2016 .

14.2

Subject to the provisions of this article and without limitation to the
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may make
temporary provision for the purposes of the construction or decommissioning of
the authorised development—

14.2.a

as to the speed at which vehicles may proceed along any road;

14.2.b

permitting, prohibiting or restricting the stopping, waiting, loading or
unloading of vehicles on any road;

14.2.c

as to the prescribed routes for vehicular traffic or the direction or priority
of vehicular traffic on any road;

14.2.d

permitting, prohibiting or restricting the use by vehicular traffic or non-
vehicular traffic of any road; and

14.2.e

suspending or   amending   in whole or in part any order made, or having
effect as if made, under the 1984 Act.

14.3

No speed limit imposed by or under this Order applies to vehicles falling
within regulation 3(4) of the Road Traffic Exemptions (Special Forces)
(Variation and Amendment) Regulations 2011  when in accordance with regulation
3(5) of those regulations.

14.4

Before exercising the power conferred by paragraph  (2)  the undertaker must—

14.4.a

consult with the chief officer of police in whose area the road is situated;
and

14.4.b

obtain the written consent of the traffic authority.

14.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers in paragraphs  (1)  or  (2)
unless it has—

14.5.a

given not less than 4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do to
the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

14.5.b

not less than 7 days before the provision is to take effect published the
undertaker’s intention to make the provision in one or more newspaper
circulating in the area in which any road to which the provision relates is
situated.

14.6

Any provision made under the powers conferred by paragraphs  (1)  or  (2)  of
this article may be suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time
to time by subsequent exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph  (1)  or
(2) .

14.7

Any provision made by the undertaker under paragraphs  (1)  or  (2) —

14.7.a

must be made by written instrument in such form as the undertaker considers
appropriate;

14.7.b

has effect as if duly made by the traffic authority in whose area the road is
situated as a traffic regulation order under the 1984 Act and the instrument
by which it is effected may specify specific savings and exemptions to which
the provision is subject; and

14.7.c

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 to the Traffic
Management Act 2004  (road traffic contraventions subject to civil
enforcement).

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

15

15.1

Subject to paragraphs  (3) ,  (4)  and  (8)  the undertaker may use any
watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in
connection with the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised development and for that purpose may lay down, take up and alter
pipes and may, on any land within the Order limits, make openings into, and
connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain.

15.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph  (1)  is to be determined as
if it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public
sewers) of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

15.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs whose
consent may be given subject to terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose.

15.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

15.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs; and

15.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

15.5

Where the undertaker discharges water into, or makes any opening into, a
watercourse, public sewer or drain belonging to or under the control of a
drainage authority (as defined in Part 6 or Part 8 of Schedule 15 (protective
provisions)), the provisions of Part 6 or Part 8 of Schedule 15 (protective
provisions) (as appropriate) apply in substitution for the provisions of
paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) .

15.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

15.7

This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter
whose entry or discharge into controlled waters requires a licence pursuant to
the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

15.8

In this article—

15.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority, a National Park Authority, a sewerage undertaker or
an urban development corporation; and

15.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Protective works to buildings

16

16.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the
Order land as the undertaker considers necessary or expedient.

16.2

Protective works may be carried out—

16.2.a

at any time before or during the construction of any part of the authorised
development in the vicinity of the building; or

16.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of five years
beginning with the date of final commissioning.

16.3

For the purpose of determining how the powers under this article are to be
exercised, the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph  (1)  and any land within its curtilage.

16.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building, the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs  (5)  and  (6) )—

16.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

16.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

16.5

Before exercising—

16.5.a

a right under paragraph  (1)  to carry out protective works to a building;

16.5.b

a right under paragraph  (3)  to enter a building and land within its
curtilage;

16.5.c

a right under paragraph  (4)(a)  to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

16.5.d

a right under paragraph  (4)(b)  to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) ,  (c)  or  (d) , specifying the protective works proposed to be carried
out.

16.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph  (5)(a) ,  (5)(c)  or  (5)(d) , the
owner or occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-
notice within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice
was served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry
out the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article  39  (arbitration).

16.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

16.8

Where—

16.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

16.8.b

within the period of five years beginning with the date of final commissioning
it appears protective works are inadequate to protect the building against
damage caused by the construction or use of that part of the authorised
development, the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the
building for any loss or damage sustained by them.

16.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 10(2) (compensation for injurious affection) of the
1965 Act.

16.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph  (7)  or  (8)  must be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

16.11

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means—

16.11.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the construction,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

16.11.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the construction, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

17

17.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
or upon which entry is required in order to carry out monitoring or surveys in
respect of the authorised development and—

17.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

17.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph  (a) , make trial holes
in such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

17.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph  (a) , carry out
ecological or archaeological investigations on such land; and

17.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

17.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph  (1)  unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

17.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

17.3.a

must, if so required before entering the land, produce written evidence of
their authority to do so; and

17.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

17.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

17.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

17.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority.

17.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

17.6

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto, or possession of, land under this article to the
same extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this
Order by virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

18

18.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or as is
incidental to it.

18.2

This article is subject to article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily), article  20 (2) (compulsory acquisition of
rights),   article 23   (acquisition of subsoil only),   article 26   (rights
under or over streets), article  27  (temporary use of land for constructing
the authorised development) and schedule 15 (protective provisions).

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

19

19.1

After the end of the period of five years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

19.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (compulsory purchase under
Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965 Act; and

19.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article  22  (application of the 1981 Act).

19.2

The authority conferred by article  27  (temporary use of land for
constructing the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period
referred to in paragraph  (1) , except that nothing in this paragraph prevents
the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of that period,
if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that
period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights

20

20.1

Subject to paragraph  (2)  and article  27  (temporary use of land for
constructing the authorised development), the undertaker may acquire
compulsorily such rights over the Order land or impose such restrictive
covenants over the Order land as may be required for any purpose for which
that land may be acquired under article  18  (compulsory acquisition of land),
by creating them as well as by acquiring rights already in existence.

20.2

Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, article  21  (private rights) and
article  29  (statutory undertakers), in the case of the Order land specified
in column 1 of Schedule 9 (land in which only new rights etc. may be acquired)
the undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition are limited to the
acquisition of such new rights and the imposition of restrictive covenants for
the purpose specified in relation to that land in column 2 of that Schedule.

20.3

Subject to section 8 (other provisions as to divided land) and Schedule 2A
(counter-notice requiring purchase of land) of the 1965 Act (as substituted by
paragraph 5(8) of Schedule 10 (modification of compensation and compulsory
purchase enactments for the creation of new rights and imposition of new
restrictive covenants)), where the undertaker creates or acquires an existing
right over land or the benefit of a restrictive covenant under paragraph  (1)
or  (2) , the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that
land.

20.4

Schedule 10 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for the creation of new rights and imposition of new restrictive covenants)
has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of restrictive covenants.

20.5

In any case where the acquisition of new rights or imposition of a restriction
under paragraph  (1)  or  (2)  is required for the purpose of diverting,
replacing or protecting apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the undertaker
may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power to acquire
such rights to the statutory undertaker in question.

20.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph  (5)  is subject to the same restrictions,
liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were
exercised by the undertaker.

#### Private rights

21

21.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under article 18 are extinguished—

21.1.a

from the date of acquisition of the land, or of the right, or of the benefit
of the restrictive covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by
agreement; or

21.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earliest.

21.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the
imposition of restrictive covenants under article  20  (compulsory acquisition
of rights) cease to have effect in so far as their continuance would be
inconsistent with the exercise of the right or compliance with the restrictive
covenant—

21.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or imposition of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker (whether the right is acquired
compulsorily, by agreement or through the grant of a lease of the land by
agreement); or

21.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act in pursuance of the right,

whichever is the earliest.

21.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under
this Order are suspended and unenforceable, in so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the purpose for which temporary possession is
taken, for as long   as   the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the
land.

21.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restrictive covenant under this article is entitled to compensation
in accordance with the terms of section 152 (compensation in case where no
right to claim in nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

21.5

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article  29  (statutory undertakers) applies.

21.6

Paragraphs  (1)  to  (3)  have effect subject to—

21.6.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

21.6.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights or
the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

21.6.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of the land;

21.6.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto the land; or

21.6.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of the land,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; or

21.6.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

21.7

If an agreement referred to in paragraph  (6)(b) —

21.7.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

21.7.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

the agreement is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title,
whether that title was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

21.8

References in this article to private rights over land include any right of
way, trust, incident, restrictive covenant, easement, liberty, privilege,
right or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting other land,
including any natural right to support; and include restrictions as to the
user of land arising by virtue of a contract, agreement or undertaking having
that effect.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

22

22.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

22.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph  (1) , has effect with the following
modifications.

22.3

In section 1 (application of the Act), for subsection 2 substitute—

22.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

22.4

In section 5(2) (earliest date for execution of declaration) omit the words
from “and this subsection” to the end.

22.5

Section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) is omitted .

22.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23 of
the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in 5A” substitute
“section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders granting
development consent) of the 2008 Act, the five year period mentioned in
article  19  (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023” .

22.7

In section 6 (notices after extension of declaration), in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

22.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a) omit the
words “(as modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

22.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

22.9.2

But see article  23(3)  (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Longfield Solar
Farm Order 2023, which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only from this
Schedule.

.

22.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act must be construed as references to
the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article  25  (modification of
Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil only

23

23.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of the land referred to in paragraph  (1)  of article  18  (compulsory
acquisition of land) or article  20  (compulsory acquisition of rights) as may
be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under that
provision instead of acquiring the whole of the land.

23.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land,
the undertaker is not required to acquire an interest in any other part of the
land.

23.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph  (1)  in relation to subsoil only—

23.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act as modified by Schedule 10 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition of
new restrictive covenants);

23.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

23.3.c

section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

23.4

Paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  do not apply where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
factory.

#### Power to override easements and other rights

24

24.1

Any authorised activity which takes place on land within the Order land
(whether the activity is undertaken by the undertaker or by any person
deriving title from the undertaker or by any contractors, servants or agents
of the undertaker) is authorised by this Order if it is done in accordance
with the terms of this Order, notwithstanding that it involves—

24.1.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

24.1.b

a breach of a restriction as to the user of land arising by virtue of a
contract.

24.2

In this article “ authorised activity ” means—

24.2.a

the erection, construction or maintenance of any part of the authorised
development;

24.2.b

the exercise of any power authorised by the Order; or

24.2.c

the use of any land within the Order land (including the temporary use of
land).

24.3

The interests and rights to which this article applies include any easement,
liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting
other land, including any natural right to support and include restrictions as
to the user of land arising by the virtue of a contract.

24.4

Where an interest, right or restriction is overridden by paragraph  (1) ,
compensation—

24.4.a

is payable under section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) or
10 (further provision as to compensation for injurious affection) of the 1965
Act; and

24.4.b

is to be assessed in the same manner and subject to the same rules as in the
case of other compensation under those sections where—

24.4.b.i

the compensation is to be estimated in connection with a purchase under that
Act; or

24.4.b.ii

the injury arises from the execution of works on or use of land acquired under
that Act.

24.5

Where a person deriving title under the undertaker or any contractors,
servants or agents of the undertaker by whom the land in question was
acquired—

24.5.a

is liable to pay compensation by virtue of paragraph  (4) ; and

24.5.b

fails to discharge that liability,

the liability is enforceable against the undertaker.

24.6

Nothing in this article is to be construed as authorising any act or omission
on the part of any person which is actionable at the suit of any person on any
grounds other than such an interference or breach as is mentioned in paragraph
(1) .

#### Modification of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965

25

25.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act (compulsory acquisition under Acquisition of Land Act
1946), as applied to this Order by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

25.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)—

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in
section 4” substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications
for orders granting development consent) of the 2008 Act, the five year period
mentioned in article  19  (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire
land compulsorily) of the Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023” .

25.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

25.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ; and

25.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

25.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article  19  (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the Longfield Solar Farm Order
2023” .

25.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat) after paragraph 29 insert—

########## INTERPRETATION

25.5.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 16 (protective works to buildings), article
27 (temporary use of land for constructing the authorised development) or
article 28 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development)
of the Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023.

.

#### Rights under or over streets

26

26.1

The undertaker may enter on, appropriate and use so much of the subsoil of or
airspace over any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

26.2

Subject to paragraph  (3) , the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph  (1)  in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

26.3

Paragraph  (2)  does not apply in relation to—

26.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

26.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

26.4

Subject to paragraph  (5) , any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph  (1)  without the undertaker acquiring any part
of that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

26.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph  (4)  to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing cost of necessary measures) of the 1991
Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to be
borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for constructing the authorised development

27

27.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the construction of the authorised
development—

27.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

27.1.a.i

so much of the land specified in column (1) of the table in Schedule 11 (land
of which temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in
relation to the land in column (2) of that table; and

27.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act and no declaration has been
made under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

27.1.b

remove any agricultural plant and apparatus, fences, debris and vegetation
from that land;

27.1.c

construct temporary works, haul roads, security fencing, bridges, structures
and buildings on that land;

27.1.d

use the land for the purposes of a temporary working site with access to the
working site in connection with the authorised development;

27.1.e

construct any works on that land as are mentioned in Schedule 1 (authorised
development); and

27.1.f

carry out mitigation works required under the requirements in Schedule 2
(requirements).

27.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

27.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

27.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

27.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

27.4

The undertaker must not remain in possession of any land under this article
for longer than reasonably necessary, and in any event must not, without the
agreement of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under
this article—

27.4.a

in the case of the land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(i) after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of final commissioning of the
part of the authorised development for which temporary possession of the land
was taken; or

27.4.b

in the case of land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of final commissioning of the part
of the authorised development for which temporary possession of the land was
taken unless the undertaker has, before the end of that period, served a
notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act or made a declaration under
section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that land.

27.5

Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or otherwise
acquired the land or rights over land subject to temporary possession, the
undertaker must before giving up possession of land of which temporary
possession has been taken under this article, remove all works and restore the
land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the
undertaker is not required to—

27.5.a

replace any building, structure, drain or electric line removed under this
article;

27.5.b

remove any drainage works installed by the undertaker under this article;

27.5.c

remove any new road surface or other improvements carried out under this
article to any street specified in Schedule 4 (streets subject to street
works); or

27.5.d

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph
(1)(f)  insofar as the works relate to mitigation works identified in the
environmental statement or required pursuant to the requirements in Schedule 2
(requirements).

27.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of any
power conferred by this article.

27.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (6)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

27.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph  (6) .

27.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

27.10

The undertaker must not compulsorily acquire, acquire new rights over or
impose restrictive covenants over, the land referred to in paragraph
(1)(a)(i)  under this Order.

27.11

Nothing in this article precludes the undertaker from—

27.11.a

creating and acquiring new rights or imposing restrictions over any part of
the Order land identified in Schedule 9 (land in which only new rights etc.
may be acquired); or

27.11.b

acquiring any part of the subsoil of (or rights in the subsoil of) that land
under article  23  (acquisition of subsoil only) or any part of the subsoil of
or airspace over that land under article  26  (rights under or over streets).

27.12

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent as
it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of
section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

27.13

Nothing in this article prevents the taking of temporary possession more than
once in relation to any land that the undertaker takes temporary possession of
under this article.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

28

28.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

28.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order land if
such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

28.1.b

enter on any land within the Order land for the purpose of gaining such access
as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

28.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

28.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

28.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

28.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

28.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

28.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

28.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

28.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

28.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (6)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

28.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph  (6) .

28.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

28.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent as
it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of
section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

28.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ” means the period of five years
beginning with the date of final commissioning of the part of the authorised
development for which temporary possession is required under this article.

#### Statutory undertakers

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 15 (protective provisions) the
undertaker may—

29.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the land plans
within the Order land; and

29.1.b

extinguish the rights of, remove, relocate the rights of or reposition the
apparatus belonging to statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in closed streets

30

Where a street is altered or diverted or its use is temporarily prohibited or
restricted under article  8  (street works), article  9  (power to alter
layout, etc., of streets), article  10  (construction and maintenance of
altered streets) or article  11  (temporary closure of public rights of way)
any statutory undertaker whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the
street has the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to
Schedule 15 (protective provisions), as if this Order had not been made.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

31

31.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article  29  (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

31.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer
but where such a sewer is removed under article  29  (statutory undertakers),
any person who is—

31.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

31.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

31.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act applies.

31.4

In this article—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003 ; and
“ public utility undertaker ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Benefit of the Order

32

Subject to article  33  (consent to transfer the benefit of the Order), the
provisions of this Order have effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker
save for the Bulls Lodge substation works in relation to which the provisions
of this Order have effect for the benefit of the undertaker and NGET and Work
No. 6(k) in relation to which the provisions of this Order have effect for the
benefit of the undertaker and UK Power Networks Limited.

#### Consent to transfer the benefit of the Order

33

33.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may—

33.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; and

33.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

33.2

Where a transfer or grant has been made references in this Order to the
undertaker, except in paragraph  (8) , are to include references to the
transferee or lessee.

33.3

The prior written consent of the Secretary of State is required for the
exercise of the powers of paragraph  (1)  except where—

33.3.a

the transferee or lessee is NGET;

33.3.b

the transferee or lessee is the holder of a licence under section 6 (licences
authorising supply etc.) of the 1989 Act; or

33.3.c

the time limits for claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of
land or effects upon land under this Order have elapsed and—

33.3.c.i

no such claims have been made;

33.3.c.ii

any such claim has been made and has been compromised or withdrawn;

33.3.c.iii

compensation has been paid in full and final settlement of any such claim;

33.3.c.iv

payment of compensation into court has taken place in lieu of settlement of
any such claim; or

33.3.c.v

it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in
respect of any such claim that no compensation is payable.

33.4

Where the consent of the Secretary of State is not required, the undertaker
must notify the Secretary of State, the relevant planning authorities and
Essex County Council in writing before transferring or granting a benefit
referred to in paragraph  (1) .

33.5

The notification referred to in paragraph  (4)  must state—

33.5.a

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the powers
will be transferred or granted;

33.5.b

subject to paragraph  (6) , the date on which the transfer will take effect;

33.5.c

the powers to be transferred or granted;

33.5.d

pursuant to paragraph  (8) , the restrictions, liabilities and obligations
that will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred or granted;
and

33.5.e

where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or
grant relates.

33.6

The date specified under paragraph  (5)(b)  must not be earlier than the
expiry of 14 working days from the date of the receipt of the notification.

33.7

The notification given must be signed by the undertaker and the person to whom
the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as specified in that
notification.

33.8

Where the undertaker has transferred any benefit, or for the duration of any
period during which the undertaker has granted any benefit—

33.8.a

the benefit transferred or granted (“the transferred benefit”) must include
any rights that are conferred, and any obligations that are imposed, by virtue
of the provisions to which the benefit relates;

33.8.b

the transferred benefit will reside exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit will not be enforceable
against the undertaker; and

33.8.c

the exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if those benefits or rights
were exercised by the undertaker.

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

34

34.1

This article applies to—

34.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

34.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

34.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

34.3

Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the
rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any
such agreement, so as to—

34.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

34.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

34.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

35

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as operational land) of the 1990 Act.

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

36

36.1

Subject to paragraph (2) and article 37 (trees subject to tree preservation
orders) the undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the
authorised development or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to
be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub from—

36.1.a

obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance, operation or
decommissioning of the authorised development or any apparatus used in
connection with the authorised development;

36.1.b

constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development; or

36.1.c

obstructing or interfering with the passage of construction vehicles to the
extent necessary for the purposes of construction or decommissioning of the
authorised development.

36.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1)  the undertaker must
do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any
person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

36.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

36.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development and subject
to paragraph  (2)  remove the hedgerows specified in column 2 of the table in
Schedule 12 (hedgerows to be removed) for the purpose specified in relation to
the relevant hedgerow in column 3 of that table.

36.5

The undertaker may not pursuant to paragraphs  (1)  and  (4)  fell or lop a
tree or remove hedgerows within the extent of the publicly maintainable
highway without the prior consent of the highway authority.

36.6

In this article “ hedgerow ” has the same meaning as in the Hedgerows
Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

37

37.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree that is subject to a tree preservation
order within or overhanging land within the Order limits or cut back its
roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so in order to
prevent the tree from obstructing or interfering with the construction,
maintenance, operation or decommissioning of the authorised development or any
apparatus used in connection with the authorised development.

37.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1) —

37.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

37.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
does not apply.

37.3

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

37.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Certification of plans and documents, etc.

38

38.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of all documents and plans listed in
the table at Schedule 13 (documents and plans to be certified) for
certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this
Order.

38.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Arbitration

39

39.1

Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided
for, is to be referred to and settled in arbitration in accordance with the
rules set out in Schedule 14 (arbitration rules) of this Order, by a single
arbitrator to be agreed upon by the parties, within 14 days of receipt of the
notice of arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

39.2

Any matter for which the consent or approval of the Secretary of State is
required under any provision of this Order is not subject to arbitration.

#### Protective Provisions

40

Schedule 15 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Service of notices

41

41.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

41.1.a

by post;

41.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

41.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs  (6)  to  (8) , by
electronic transmission.

41.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

41.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph  (1)  is, if that person has given an
address for service, that address and otherwise—

41.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

41.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at that time of
service.

41.4

Where for the purpose of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having an interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

41.4.a

addressing it to that person by the description of “owner”, or as the case may
be “occupier” of the land (describing it); and

41.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of the person who is or appears to be resident
or employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building
or object on or near the land.

41.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

41.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

41.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

41.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

41.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

41.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within seven days of receipt that the
recipient requires a paper copy of all or any part of that notice or other
document the sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably
practicable.

41.7

Any consent to the use of an electronic transmission by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph  (8) .

41.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

41.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

41.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than seven days after the date on
which the notice is given.

41.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

#### Procedure in relation to certain approvals etc.

42

42.1

Where an application is made to or request is made of, a consenting authority
for any consent, agreement or approval required or contemplated by any of the
provisions of the Order (not including the requirements), such consent,
agreement or approval to be validly given, must be given in writing.

42.2

Where paragraph  (1)  applies to any consent, agreement or approval, such
consent, agreement or approval must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

42.3

Schedule 16 (procedure for discharge of requirements) has effect in relation
to all consents, agreements or approvals required, granted, refused or
withheld in relation to the requirements.

42.4

Save for applications made pursuant to Schedule 16 (procedure for discharge of
requirements) and where stated to the contrary if, within eight weeks (or such
longer period as may be agreed between the undertaker and the relevant
consenting authority in writing) after the application or request has been
submitted to a consenting authority it has not notified the undertaker of its
disapproval and the grounds of disapproval, it is deemed to have approved the
application or request.

42.5

Where any application is made as described in paragraph  (1) , the undertaker
must include a statement in such application that refers to the timeframe for
consideration of the application and the consequences of failure to meet that
timeframe as prescribed by paragraph  (4) .

42.6

Schedule 16 (procedure for discharge of requirements) does not apply in
respect of any consents, agreements or approvals contemplated by the
provisions of Schedule 15 (protective provisions) or any dispute under article
16(6)  (protective work to buildings) to which paragraph (4) applies.

42.7

In this article “ consenting authority ” means the relevant planning
authority, highway authority, traffic authority, street authority, the owner
of a watercourse, sewer or drain or the beneficiary of any of the protective
provisions contained in Schedule 15 (protective provisions).

#### Guarantees in respect of payment of compensation

43

43.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by the provisions
referred to in paragraph  (2)  in relation to any land unless it has first put
in place either—

43.1.a

a guarantee, the form and amount of which has been approved by the Secretary
of State in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation
pursuant to the provisions referred to in paragraph  (2) ; or

43.1.b

an alternative form of security, the form and amount of which has been
approved by the Secretary of State in respect of the liabilities of the
undertaker to pay compensation pursuant to the provisions referred to in
paragraph  (2) .

43.2

The provisions are—

43.2.a

article  18  (compulsory acquisition of land);

43.2.b

article  20  (compulsory acquisition of rights);

43.2.c

article  21  (private rights);

43.2.d

article 23 (acquisition of subsoil only);

43.2.e

article  26  (rights under or over streets);

43.2.f

article  27  (temporary use of land for constructing the authorised
development);

43.2.g

article  28  (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised
development); and

43.2.h

article  29  (statutory undertakers).

43.3

A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability
of the undertaker to pay compensation under this Order is to be treated as
enforceable against the guarantor or person providing the alternative form of
security by any person to whom such compensation is payable and must be in
such a form as to be capable of enforcement by such a person.

43.4

Nothing in this article requires a guarantee or alternative form of security
to be in place for more than 15 years after the date on which the relevant
power is exercised.

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

44

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the modifications that—

44.a

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ;

44.b

for the “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” ; and

44.c

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and
Net Zero       David Wagstaff   Deputy Director Energy Infrastructure Planning
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero     26th June 2023

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ balance of solar system (BoSS) plant ” means inverters, transformers
and switch gear and would be either—         solar stations being a station
comprising centralised inverters, transformers and switch gear with each
component for each solar station either—         a “solar station” located
outside, with a concrete foundation slab or placed on metal skids for each of
the inverters and transformers and switch gear; or           housed together
within a container sitting on a concrete foundation slab or placed on metal
skids; or                 string inverters attached either to mounting
structures or a ground mounted frame, switchgear and transformers on a
concrete foundation slab or placed on metal skids;                 “
electrical cables ” means—         cables of differing types and voltages
installed for the purposes of conducting electricity, auxiliary cables, cables
connecting to direct current (DC) boxes, earthing cables and optical fibre
cables; and           works associated with cable laying including jointing
pits, hardstanding adjoining the jointing pits, combiner boxes, fibre bays,
cable ducts, cable protection, joint protection, manholes, kiosks, marker
posts, underground cable marker, tiles and tape, send and receive pits for
horizontal directional drilling, trenching, lighting, and a pit or container
to capture fluids associated with drilling;                 “ energy storage ”
means equipment used for the storage of electrical energy;           “
existing substation ” means the existing substation at Bulls Lodge Substation,
Boreham, Chelmsford CM3 3JQ, owned and operated by National Grid Electricity
Transmission plc;           “ inverter ” means electrical equipment required
to convert direct current power to alternating current;           “ mounting
structure ” means a frame or rack made of galvanised steel, anodised aluminium
or other material designed to support the solar panels and mounted on piles
driven into the ground, piles rammed into a pre-drilled hole, a pillar
attaching to a steel ground screw, or pillars fixed to a concrete foundation;
“ permissive paths ” means new access tracks providing restricted public
access within the Order limits along the routes shown on the permissive paths
plans;           “ solar panel ” means a solar photovoltaic panel or module
designed to convert solar irradiance to electrical energy;           “
substation ” means a substation containing electrical equipment required to
switch, transform, convert electricity and provide reactive power
compensation;           “ switch gear ” means a combination of electrical
disconnect switches, fuses or circuit breakers used to control, protect and
isolate electrical equipment; and           “ transformer ” means a structure
serving to transform electricity to a higher voltage.

##### Authorised development

2

In the Districts of Braintree and Chelmsford City and in the County of Essex a
nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14 and 15
of the 2008 Act and associated development under section 115(1)(b) of the 2008
Act.

The nationally significant infrastructure project comprises one generating
station with a gross electrical output capacity of over 50 megawatts
comprising all or any of the work numbers in this Schedule or any part of any
work number in this Schedule—

Work No. 1—  a ground mounted solar photovoltaic generating station with a
gross electrical output capacity of over 50 megawatts including—

2.a

solar panels fitted to mounting structures; and

2.b

balance of solar system (BoSS) plant,

and associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) (development
for which development consent may be granted) of the 2008 Act including—

Work No. 2—  an energy storage facility comprising—

2.a

Work No. 2A—  a battery energy storage system compound including—

2.a.i

battery energy storage system (BESS) units each comprising an enclosure for
BESS electro-chemical components and associated equipment, with the enclosure
being of metal façade, joined or close coupled to each other, mounted on a
reinforced concrete foundation slab or concrete piles;

2.a.ii

transformers and associated bunding;

2.a.iii

inverters, switch gear, power conversion systems (PCS) and ancillary
equipment;

2.a.iv

containers or enclosures housing all or any of Work Nos. 2A(ii) and (iii) and
ancillary equipment;

2.a.v

monitoring and control systems housed within the containers or enclosures
comprised in Work Nos. 2A(i) or (iv) or located separately in its own
container or enclosure;

2.a.vi

heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems either housed on or
within each of the containers or enclosures comprised in Work Nos. 2A(i), (iv)
and (v), attached to the side or top of each of the containers or enclosures,
or located separate to but near to each of the containers or enclosures;

2.a.vii

electrical cables including electrical cables connecting to Work No. 3;

2.a.viii

fire safety infrastructure including water storage tanks and a shut-off valve
for containment of fire water and hard standing to accommodate emergency
vehicles; and

2.a.ix

containers or similar structures to house spare parts and materials required
for the day to day operation of the BESS facility.

2.b

Work No. 2B—  a battery energy storage system compound including—

2.b.i

battery energy storage system (BESS) units each comprising an enclosure for
BESS electro-chemical components and associated equipment, with the enclosure
being of metal façade, joined or close coupled to each other, mounted on a
reinforced concrete foundation slab or concrete piles;

2.b.ii

transformers and associated bunding;

2.b.iii

inverters, switch gear, power conversion systems (PCS) and ancillary
equipment;

2.b.iv

containers or enclosures housing, all or any of Work Nos. 2B (ii) and (iii)
and ancillary equipment;

2.b.v

monitoring and control systems housed within the containers or enclosures
comprised in Work Nos. 2B(i) or (iv) or located separately in its own
container or enclosure;

2.b.vi

heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems either housed on or
within each of the containers or enclosures comprised in Work Nos. 2B(i), (iv)
and (v), attached to the side or top of each of the containers or enclosures,
or located separate to but near to each of the containers or enclosures;

2.b.vii

electrical cables including electrical cables connecting to Work No. 3;

2.b.viii

fire safety infrastructure including water storage tanks and a shut-off valve
for containment of fire water and hard standing to accommodate emergency
vehicles; and

2.b.ix

containers or similar structures to house spare parts and materials required
for the day to day operation of the BESS facility.

Work No. 3—  works in connection with an onsite substation including—

2.a

substation, switch room buildings and ancillary equipment including reactive
power units;

2.b

control building housing offices, storage and welfare facilities;

2.c

monitoring and control systems for this Work No. 3 and Work Nos. 1 and 2
housed within the control building in Work No. 3(b) or located separately in
their own containers or control rooms;

2.d

400 kilovolt harmonic filter compound; and

2.e

electrical cables including electrical cables connecting to Work No. 2.

Work No. 4—  works to lay high voltage electrical cables, access and temporary
construction laydown areas for the electrical cables including—

2.a

Work No. 4A —

2.a.i

works to lay electrical cables including one 400 kilovolt cable circuit
connecting Work No. 3 to Work No. 5; and

2.a.ii

laying down of internal access tracks, ramps, means of access, footpaths,
roads, including the laying and construction of drainage infrastructure,
signage and information boards; and

2.b

Work No. 4B—  temporary construction laydown areas.

Work No. 5—  an extension to the existing substation including—

2.a

Work No. 5A—  an electricity switching station including—

2.a.i

a main substation building to include an indoor gas insulated switchgear (GIS)
switch hall, ancillary plant rooms, amenities block, storage and workshop
units;

2.a.ii

outdoor air insulated (AIS) switchgear, GIS busbars, two overhead line
gantries and associated foundations and structures;

2.a.iii

a new permanent access road from the existing private road including a new
bellmouth entrance;

2.a.iv

internal roadways and footpaths;

2.a.v

earthworks;

2.a.vi

car parking area;

2.a.vii

lighting columns and lighting;

2.a.viii

perimeter fencing and security cameras;

2.a.ix

drainage system and a new drainage outfall to Boreham Brook; and

2.a.x

new connections from pylons 4VB061A and 4VB061B including pylon modifications;
and

2.b

Work No. 5B—  temporary overhead line alterations including two new temporary
pylons and realignment of the existing 400kV overhead line.

Work No. 6—  works including—

2.a

electrical cables including electrical cables connecting to Work No. 1 to Work
No. 3;

2.b

fencing, gates, boundary treatment and other means of enclosure;

2.c

works for the provision of security and monitoring measures such as CCTV
columns, lighting columns and lighting, cameras, weather stations,
communication infrastructure, and perimeter fencing;

2.d

landscaping and biodiversity mitigation and enhancement measures including
planting;

2.e

improvement, maintenance and use of existing private tracks;

2.f

laying down of internal access tracks, ramps, means of access, footpaths,
permissive paths, cycle routes and roads, including the laying and
construction of drainage infrastructure, signage and information boards;

2.g

temporary footpath diversions;

2.h

earthworks;

2.i

SuDs Ponds, runoff outfalls, general drainage and irrigation infrastructure
and improvements or extensions to existing drainage and irrigation systems;

2.j

up to 10 secondary temporary construction compounds, both within the permanent
work area and outside the permanent work area; and

2.k

works to divert and underground existing electrical overhead lines.

Work No. 7—  temporary construction and decommissioning laydown areas
including—

2.a

Work No. 7A—  a main temporary construction and decommissioning laydown area
in connection with Work Nos. 1-4, 6 and 8-10 comprising—

2.a.i

areas of hardstanding;

2.a.ii

car parking;

2.a.iii

site and welfare offices, canteens and workshops;

2.a.iv

area to store materials and equipment;

2.a.v

storage and waste skips;

2.a.vi

area for download and turning;

2.a.vii

security infrastructure, including cameras, perimeter fencing and lighting;

2.a.viii

site drainage and waste management infrastructure (including sewerage); and

2.a.ix

electricity, water, waste water and telecommunications connections.

2.b

Work No. 7B—  temporary construction laydown area in connection with Work No.
5 comprising—

2.b.i

areas of hardstanding;

2.b.ii

car parking;

2.b.iii

site and welfare offices, canteens, and workshops;

2.b.iv

area to store materials and equipment;

2.b.v

storage and waste skips;

2.b.vi

area for download and turning;

2.b.vii

security infrastructure, including cameras, perimeter fencing and lighting

2.b.viii

site drainage and waste management infrastructure (including sewerage);

2.b.ix

electricity, water, waste water and telecommunications connections; and

2.b.x

a new temporary access from the existing private road to the temporary
compound in this Work No. 7B.

Work No. 8—  office, warehouse and plant storage building comprising—

2.a

offices and welfare facilities;

2.b

storage facilities;

2.c

waste storage within a fenced compound;

2.d

parking areas; and

2.e

a warehouse building for the storage of spare parts, operational plant and
vehicles.

Work No. 9—  works to facilitate access to Work Nos. 1 to 8 and 10 including—

2.a

creation of accesses from the public highway;

2.b

creation of visibility splays; and

2.c

works to widen and surface the public highway.

Work No. 10—  areas of habitat management

2.a

landscape and biodiversity enhancement measures;

2.b

habitat creation and management, including earthworks, landscaping, means of
enclosure, and the laying and construction of drainage infrastructure; and

2.c

laying down of permissive paths, signage and information boards.

In connection with and in addition to Work Nos. 1 to 10, further associated
development comprising such other works or operations as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the authorised
development, and which are within the Order limits and fall within the scope
of the work assessed by the environmental statement, including—

2.a

boundary treatments, including means of enclosure;

2.b

bunds, embankments, trenching and swales;

2.c

works to the existing irrigation system and works to alter the position and
extent of such irrigation system;

2.d

surface water drainage systems, storm water attenuation systems including
storage basins, oil water separators, including channelling and culverting and
works to existing drainage networks;

2.e

electrical, gas, water, foul water drainage and telecommunications
infrastructure connections, diversions and works to, and works to alter the
position of, such services and utilities connections;

2.f

works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with, non-navigable
rivers, streams or watercourses;

2.g

site establishments and preparation works including site clearance (including
vegetation removal, demolition of existing structures); earthworks (including
soil stripping and storage and site levelling) and excavations; the alteration
of the position of services and utilities; and works for the protection of
buildings and land;

2.h

works to maintain and repair streets and access roads; and

2.i

tunnelling, boring and drilling works.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 2

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ both relevant planning authorities ” means Braintree District Council
and Chelmsford City Council each being the relevant planning authority for
part of the authorised development.

##### GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

###### Commencement of the authorised development

2

The authorised development must not be commenced after the expiration of five
years from the date this Order comes into force.

###### Phasing of the authorised development and date of final commissioning

3

3.1

No part of the authorised development may commence until a written scheme
setting out the phase or phases of construction of the authorised development
has been submitted to and approved by both relevant planning authorities.

3.2

The scheme must be implemented as approved.

3.3

Notice of the date of final commissioning with respect to the first phase of
numbered work 1 to complete commissioning must be given to both relevant
planning authorities within 15 working days of the date of final commissioning
for that phase.

###### Requirement for written approval

4

Where under any of the requirements the approval, agreement or confirmation of
both relevant planning authorities or of the relevant planning authority (as
applicable) or another person is required, that approval, agreement or
confirmation must be provided in writing.

###### Approved details and amendments to them

5

5.1

With respect to the documents certified under article  38  (certification of
plans and documents, etc) and any plans, details or schemes which have been
approved pursuant to any requirement (together the “Approved Documents, Plans,
Details or Schemes”), the undertaker may submit to the relevant planning
authority or both relevant planning authorities (as applicable) for approval
any amendments to any of the Approved Documents, Plans, Details or Schemes
and, following approval by the relevant planning authority or both relevant
planning authorities (as applicable), the relevant Approved Documents, Plans,
Details or Schemes is to be taken to include the amendments as so approved
pursuant to this paragraph.

5.2

Approval under sub-paragraph  (1)  for the amendments to any of the Approved
Documents, Plans, Details or Schemes must not be given except where it has
been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the relevant planning authority or
both relevant planning authorities (as applicable) that the subject matter of
the approval sought is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement.

###### Community liaison group

6

6.1

Prior to the commencement of the authorised development the undertaker must
submit to both relevant planning authorities for approval the terms of
reference for a community liaison group whose aim is to facilitate liaison
between representatives of people living in the vicinity of the Order limits
and other relevant organisations in relation to the construction of the
authorised development.

6.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)  the relevant organisations include
Braintree District Council, Chelmsford City Council, Essex County Council,
Essex Fire and Rescue Service, East of England Ambulance Trust, National
Highways, Essex Ramblers Association.

6.3

The community liaison group must be established prior to commencement of the
authorised development and must be administered by the undertaker and operated
in accordance with the approved terms of reference.

6.4

The community liaison group is to continue to meet until the date of final
commissioning of the final phase of the authorised development unless
otherwise agreed with the relevant planning authorities.

##### SOLAR FARM WORKS AND GRID CONNECTION WORKS

###### Detailed design approval

7

7.1

No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
details of—

7.1.a

the layout;

7.1.b

scale;

7.1.c

proposed finished ground levels;

7.1.d

external appearance;

7.1.e

hard surfacing materials;

7.1.f

vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and circulation areas;

7.1.g

refuse or other storage units, signs and lighting;

7.1.h

drainage, water, power and communications cables and pipelines; and

7.1.i

programme for landscaping works,

relating to that phase have been submitted and approved by the relevant
planning authority for that phase or, where the phase falls within the
administrative areas of both Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City
Council, both relevant planning authorities.

7.2

The details submitted must accord with—

7.2.a

the outline design principles; and

7.2.b

for Work No. 2, the outline battery safety management plan.

7.3

The solar farm works and grid connection works must be carried out in
accordance with the approved details.

7.4

The relevant planning authority must consult with Essex County Council in its
role as lead local flood authority before approving details in relation to
drainage or water under sub-paragraph  7(1)(h) .

###### Battery safety management

8

8.1

Work No. 2 must not commence until a battery safety management plan has been
submitted to and approved by both relevant planning authorities.

8.2

The battery safety management plan must prescribe measures to facilitate
safety during the construction, operation and decommissioning of Work No. 2
including the transportation of new, used and replacement battery cells both
to and from the authorised development.

8.3

The battery safety management plan must be substantially in accordance with
the outline battery safety management plan.

8.4

Both relevant planning authorities must consult with the Health and Safety
Executive, the Essex County Fire and Rescue Service and the Environment Agency
before determining an application for approval of the battery safety
management plan.

8.5

The battery safety management plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Landscape and ecological management plan

9

9.1

No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
a written landscape and ecological management plan (which must be
substantially in accordance with the outline landscape and ecological
management plan) has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority for that phase or, where the phase falls within the administrative
areas of both Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City Council, both
relevant planning authorities.

9.2

The landscape and ecological management plan must include details of:

9.2.a

how the plan will secure a minimum of 87% biodiversity net gain during the
operation of the authorised development, calculated using The Biodiversity
Metric 4.0, published by Natural England on 20 April 2023   (or such other
biodiversity metric approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body) ;

9.2.b

how the landscaping and ecological measures will be managed and maintained
during the operational life of the solar farm works and grid connection works
to the date on which the decommissioning environmental management plan is
implemented pursuant to requirement 20 (decommissioning and restoration); and

9.2.c

how any approaches and measures in the biodiversity design strategy have been
incorporated into the design of the solar farm works and grid connection
works.

9.3

The landscape and ecological management plan must be implemented as approved.

9.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes site clearance
involving vegetation removal.

###### Fencing and other means of enclosure

10

10.1

No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
written details of all proposed temporary fences, walls or other means of
enclosure (including those set out in the construction environmental
management plan), for that phase have been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority or, where the phase falls within the
administrative areas of both Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City
Council, both relevant planning authorities.

10.2

No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
written details of all permanent fences, walls or other means of enclosure for
that phase (which must be substantially in accordance with the relevant
outline design principles) have been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority or, where the phase falls within the administrative areas
of both Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City Council, both relevant
planning authorities.

10.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes any permitted
preliminary works.

10.4

Any construction site must remain securely fenced in accordance with the
approved details under sub-paragraph  (1)  at all times during construction of
the solar farm works and grid connection works.

10.5

Any temporary fencing must be removed on completion of the phase of
construction of the authorised development for which it was used.

10.6

Any approved permanent fencing in a phase must be completed before the date of
final commissioning in respect of such phase.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

11

11.1

No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
written details of the surface water drainage scheme and (if any) foul water
drainage system (which must be substantially in accordance with the outline
drainage strategy) have been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority for that phase or, where the phase falls within the
administrative areas of both Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City
Council, both relevant planning authorities such approval to be in
consultation with Essex County Council as the lead local flood authority.

11.2

Any approved scheme must be implemented as approved and maintained throughout
the construction and operation of the solar farm works and grid connection
works.

###### Archaeology

12

12.1

No phase of the solar farm works or grid connection works may commence until a
written scheme of investigation (which must accord with the overarching
written scheme of investigation and outline construction environmental
management plan) for that phase has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority or, where the phase falls within the
administrative areas of both the Braintree District Council and Chelmsford
City Council, both relevant planning authorities, such approval to be in
consultation with Essex County Council and Historic England.

12.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes any permitted
preliminary works.

12.3

The scheme submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include details of the
following which applies in the event that site investigation is required—

12.3.a

an assessment of significance and research questions;

12.3.b

the programme and methodology of site investigation and recording;

12.3.c

the programme for post investigation assessment;

12.3.d

provision for analysis of the site investigation and recording;

12.3.e

provision for publication and dissemination of the analysis and records of the
site investigation;

12.3.f

provision for archive deposition of the analysis and records of the site
investigation; and

12.3.g

nomination of a competent person, persons or organisation to undertake the
works set out within the written scheme of investigation.

12.4

Any archaeological works or watching brief must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme.

12.5

In the event that site investigation is required, the site investigation and
post investigation assessment must be completed in accordance with the
programme set out in the written scheme of investigation and provision made
for analysis, publication and dissemination of results and archive deposition.

###### Construction environmental management plan

13

13.1

No phase of the solar farm works and the grid connection works may commence
until a construction environmental management plan (which must be
substantially in accordance with the outline construction environmental
management plan) for that phase has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority or, where the phase falls within the
administrative areas of both the Braintree District Council and Chelmsford
City Council, both relevant planning authorities, such approval to be in
consultation with the relevant highway authority and the Environment Agency.

13.2

All construction works associated with the solar farm works and the grid
connection works must be carried out in accordance with the approved
construction environmental management plan.

13.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes remedial works
in respect of any contamination or other adverse ground conditions and site
clearance involving vegetation removal.

###### Operational environmental management plan

14

14.1

Prior to the date of final commissioning for any phase of the solar farm works
and grid connection works, an operational environmental management plan (which
must be substantially in accordance with the outline operational environmental
management plan) for that phase must be submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority for that phase or, where the phase falls within
the administrative areas of both the Braintree District Council and Chelmsford
City Council, both relevant planning authorities, such approval to be in
consultation with the relevant highway authority and the Environment Agency.

14.2

The operation of the solar farm works and grid connection works must be
carried out in accordance with the approved operational environmental
management plan.

###### Construction traffic management plan

15

15.1

 No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
a construction traffic management plan (which must be substantially in
accordance with the framework construction traffic management plan) for that
phase has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority
for that phase or, where the phase falls within the administrative areas of
both the Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City Council, both relevant
planning authorities, such approval to be in consultation with National
Highways and the relevant highway authority.

15.2

The construction traffic management plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Operational noise

16

16.1

No part of numbered works 1, 2 or 3 may commence until an operational noise
assessment containing details of how the design of that numbered work has
incorporated mitigation to ensure the operational noise rating levels as set
out in Tables 11-13, 11-14 and 11-15 of Chapter 11 of the environmental
statement are to be complied with for that part has been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority for that part or, where the part
falls within the administrative areas of both Braintree District Council and
Chelmsford City Council, both relevant planning authorities.

16.2

The design as described in the operational noise assessment must be
implemented as approved.

###### Permissive paths

17

17.1

Where a phase of the solar farm works includes a permissive path or paths, the
permissive path or paths must be provided and open to the public prior to the
date of final commissioning in respect of that phase as shown on the
permissive paths plans.

17.2

The permissive paths must be maintained and access by the public permitted for
364 days a year (subject to closures for maintenance or emergencies) until
commencement of decommissioning of the authorised development pursuant to
requirement 20 (decommissioning and restoration).

###### Public rights of way diversions

18

18.1

No phase of the solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until
a public rights of way management plan (which must be substantially in
accordance with the outline public rights of way management plan) for any
sections of public rights of way shown to be temporarily closed on the
streets, access and rights of way plans for that phase has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority or, where the phase falls
within the administrative areas of both Braintree District Council and
Chelmsford City Council, both relevant planning authorities, such approval to
be in consultation with the relevant highway authority.

18.2

The plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Soils Management

19

19.1

No phase of the solar farm works and the grid connection works may commence
until a soils resource management plan (which must be substantially in
accordance with the outline soils resource management plan as relevant to
construction activities) for that phase has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant planning authority or, where the phase falls within the
administrative areas of both the Braintree District Council and Chelmsford
City Council, both relevant planning authorities.

19.2

All construction works associated with the solar farm works and the grid
connection works must be carried out in accordance with the approved soils
resource management plan.

19.3

Prior to the date of final commissioning for any phase of the solar farm works
and grid connection works, a soils resource management plan (which must be
substantially in accordance with the outline soils resource management plan as
relevant to operational activities) for that phase must be submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority for that phase or, where the phase
falls within the administrative areas of both the Braintree District Council
and Chelmsford City Council, both relevant planning authorities.

19.4

The operation of the solar farm works and grid connection works must be
carried out in accordance with the approved soils resource management plan.

19.5

Prior to the start of any decommissioning works for any phase of the solar
farm works and grid connection works, a soils resource management plan (which
must be substantially in accordance with the outline soils resource management
plan as relevant to decommissioning activities) for that phase must be
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority for that phase
or, where the phase falls within the administrative areas of both the
Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City Council, both relevant planning
authorities.

19.6

The decommissioning of the solar farm works and grid connection works must be
carried out in accordance with the approved soils resource management plan.

###### Decommissioning and restoration

20

20.1

Within 3 months of the date that the undertaker decides to decommission any
part of the solar farm works and grid connection works, the undertaker must
submit to the relevant planning authority for that part (or both relevant
planning authorities where that part falls within the administrative areas of
both Braintree District Council and Chelmsford City Council) for approval a
decommissioning environmental management plan and a decommissioning travel
management plan for that part. Decommissioning will commence no later than 40
years following the date of final commissioning of the first phase of numbered
work 1 as notified by the undertaker pursuant to requirement 3 (phasing of the
authorised development and date of final commissioning).

20.2

The plans submitted and approved must be substantially in accordance with the
relevant part of the decommissioning strategy.

20.3

The decommissioning environmental management plan submitted and approved must
include a resource management plan that includes details of proposals to
minimise the use of natural resources and unnecessary materials.

20.4

No decommissioning works must be carried out until the relevant planning
authority or both relevant planning authorities (as applicable) has/have
approved the plans submitted in relation to such works.

20.5

The plans must be implemented as approved.

20.6

This requirement is without prejudice to any other consents or permissions
which may be required to decommission any part of the authorised development.

###### Highway improvements

21

Save in respect of the works identified in this requirement, no phase of the
solar farm works and grid connection works may commence until the necessary
accesses, visibility splays and works to widen the public highway to
facilitate access to the solar farm works (part of Work Number 9) have been
carried out and completed.

##### BULLS LODGE SUBSTATION WORKS

###### Detailed design approval

22

22.1

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until details of—

22.1.a

the layout;

22.1.b

scale;

22.1.c

proposed finished ground levels;

22.1.d

external appearance;

22.1.e

hard surfacing materials;

22.1.f

vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and circulation areas;

22.1.g

refuse or other storage units, signs and lighting;

22.1.h

drainage, water, power and communications cables and pipelines; and

22.1.i

programme for landscaping works,

relating to that phase have been submitted and approved by the relevant
planning authority for that phase.

22.2

The details submitted must accord with the outline design principles.

22.3

The Bulls Lodge substation works must be carried out in accordance with the
approved details.

22.4

The relevant planning authority must consult with Essex County Council in its
role as lead local flood authority before approving details in relation to
drainage or water under sub-paragraph (1)(h).

###### Fencing and other means of enclosure

23

23.1

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until written
details of all proposed temporary fences, walls or other means of enclosure
(including those set out in the construction environmental management plan),
for that phase have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

23.2

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until written
details of all permanent fences, walls or other means of enclosure for that
phase (which must be substantially in accordance with the relevant outline
design principles) have been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority.

23.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes any permitted
preliminary works.

23.4

Any construction site must remain securely fenced in accordance with the
approved details under sub-paragraph  (1)  at all times during construction of
the Bulls Lodge substation works.

23.5

Any temporary fencing must be removed on completion of the phase of
construction of the Bulls Lodge substation works for which it was used.

23.6

Any approved permanent fencing must be completed before final commissioning of
the Bulls Lodge substation works.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

24

24.1

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until written
details of the surface water drainage scheme and (if any) foul water drainage
system (which must be substantially in accordance with the outline drainage
strategy) have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority for that phase, such approval to be in consultation with Essex
County Council as the lead local flood authority.

24.2

Any approved scheme must be implemented as approved and maintained throughout
the construction and operation of the Bulls Lodge substation works.

###### Archaeology

25

25.1

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until a written
scheme of investigation (which must accord with the overarching written scheme
of investigation and outline construction environmental management plan) for
that phase has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority, such approval to be in consultation with Essex County Council and
Historic England.

25.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes any permitted
preliminary works.

25.3

The scheme submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include details of the
following which applies in the event that site investigation is required—

25.3.a

an assessment of significance and research questions;

25.3.b

the programme and methodology of site investigation and recording;

25.3.c

the programme for post investigation assessment;

25.3.d

provision for analysis of the site investigation and recording;

25.3.e

provision for publication and dissemination of the analysis and records of the
site investigation;

25.3.f

provision for archive deposition of the analysis and records of the site
investigation; and

25.3.g

nomination of a competent person, persons or organisation to undertake the
works set out within the written scheme of investigation.

25.4

Any archaeological works or watching brief must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme.

25.5

In the event that site investigation is required, the site investigation and
post investigation assessment must be completed in accordance with the
programme set out in the written scheme of investigation and provision made
for analysis, publication and dissemination of results and archive deposition.

###### Construction environmental management plan

26

26.1

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until a construction
environmental management plan (which must be substantially in accordance with
the outline construction environmental management plan) for that phase has
been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority, such
approval to be in consultation with the relevant highway authority and the
Environment Agency.

26.2

All construction works associated with the Bulls Lodge substation works must
be carried out in accordance with the approved construction environmental
management plan.

26.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commence ” includes remedial works
in respect of any contamination or other adverse ground conditions and site
clearance involving vegetation removal.

###### Construction traffic management plan

27

27.1

 No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until a
construction traffic management plan (which must be substantially in
accordance with the framework construction traffic management plan) for that
phase has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority
for that phase, such approval to be in consultation with National Highways and
the relevant highway authority.

27.2

The construction traffic management plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Soils Management

28

28.1

No phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works may commence until a soils
resource management plan (which must be substantially in accordance with the
outline soils resource management plan as relevant to construction activities)
for that phase has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

28.2

All construction works associated with the Bulls Lodge substation works must
be carried out in accordance with the approved soils resource management plan.

28.3

Prior to the completion of any phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works, a
soils resource management plan (which must be substantially in accordance with
the outline soils resource management plan as relevant to operational
activities) for that phase must be submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority.

28.4

The operation of the Bulls Lodge substation works must be carried out in
accordance with the approved soils resource management plan.

###### Operational environmental management plan

29

29.1

Prior to the completion of any phase of the Bulls Lodge substation works, an
operational environmental management plan (which must be substantially in
accordance with the outline operational environmental management plan) for
that phase must be submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority, such approval to be in consultation with the relevant highway
authority and the Environment Agency.

29.2

The operation of the Bulls Lodge substation works must be carried out in
accordance with the approved operational environmental management plan.

  LEGISLATION TO BE DISAPPLIED

Article 6

1

The following provisions do not apply in so far as they relate to the
construction of any numbered work or the carrying out of any operation
required for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction,
operation, maintenance or decommissioning of the authorised development—

1.a

Eastern Counties Railway Act 1836 ;

1.b

Eastern Counties Railway Act 1838 ;

1.c

Great Eastern Railway Act 1882 ;

1.d

Great Eastern Railway (General Powers) Act 1883 ;

1.e

Great Eastern Railway (General Powers) Act 1885 ;

1.f

Great Eastern Railway (General Powers) Act 1898 ;

1.g

Chelmsford Corporation Water Act 1923 ;

1.h

County of London Electric Supply Company’s Act 1927 ;

1.i

Essex County Council Act 1933 ;

1.j

Ely Ouse-Essex Water Act 1968 ;

1.k

Essex River and South Essex Water Act 1969 ;

1.l

Essex River Authority Act 1972 ; and

1.m

Anglian Water Authority Act 1977 .

  STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS

Article 8

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ cable works ” means works to place, retain and maintain underground
electrical and communications apparatus; and           “ culvert works ” means
repair, replace, extend or alter and maintain an existing culvert.
(1)       Area         (2)       Street         (3)       Description of the
street works       Chelmsford City Council Private Road Cable works beneath
the width of the street for the length shown in pink on sheet 1 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan, reference SW-A1. Chelmsford City
Council Waltham Road Cable works beneath the width of the street for the
length shown in pink on sheet 2 of the streets, access and rights of way plan,
reference SW-C1. Chelmsford City Council Public right of way 213_20 Cable
works beneath the width of the street for the length shown in purple on sheet
2 of the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference FC-B2. Chelmsford
City Council Public right of way 213_21 Cable works beneath the width of the
street for the length shown in purple on sheet 2 of the streets, access and
rights of way plan, reference FC-B3. Chelmsford City Council Public right of
way 213_19 Cable works beneath the width of the street for the length shown in
purple on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference
FC-B1. Braintree District Council Public right of way 113_32 Cable works
beneath the width of the street for the length shown in purple on sheet 3 of
the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference FC-T2. Chelmsford City
Council Public right of way 213_18 Cable works beneath the width of the street
for the length shown in purple on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of
way plan, reference FC-T3. Braintree District Council / Chelmsford City
Council (border) Public right of way 213_4 Cable works beneath the width of
the street for the length shown in purple on sheet 4 of the streets, access
and rights of way plan, reference FC-G1. Braintree District Council /
Chelmsford City Council (border) Public right of way 113_32 Cable works
beneath the width of the street for the length shown in purple on sheet 4 of
the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference FC-G2. Chelmsford City
Council Public right of way 213_5 Cable works beneath the width of the street
for the length shown in purple on sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of
way plan, reference FC-T4. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Culvert works
beneath the width of the street for the length shown in pink on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan, reference SW-E1. Braintree District
Council Noakes Farm Road Cable works beneath the width of the street for the
length shown in pink on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights of way plan,
reference SW-I3. Braintree District Council Public right of way 113_30 Cable
works beneath the width of the street for the length shown in purple on sheet
7 of the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference FC-T7. Braintree
District Council Public right of way 113_30 Cable works beneath the width of
the street for the length shown in purple on sheet 7 of the streets, access
and rights of way plan, reference FC-T8. Braintree District Council Noakes
Farm Road Cable works beneath the width of the street for the length shown in
pink on sheets 7 and 8 of the streets, access and rights of way plan,
reference SW-I2. Braintree District Council Public right of way 113_25 Cable
works beneath the width of the street for the length shown in purple on sheets
7 and 8 of the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference FC-T6.
Braintree District Council / Chelmsford City Council (border) Noakes Lane
Cable works beneath the width of the street for the length shown in pink on
sheet 8 of the streets, access and rights of way plan, reference SW-I1.
Braintree District Council Public right of way 221_53 Cable works beneath the
width of the street for the length shown in purple on sheets 8 and 9 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan, reference FC-T1. Braintree District
Council Public right of way 113_33 Cable works beneath the width of the street
for the length shown in purple on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of
way plan, reference FC-T5.

  ALTERATION OF STREETS

Article 9 and Article 10

##### PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT AND MAINTAINED BY THE HIGHWAY AUTHORITY

          (1)       Area         (2)       Street         (3)
Description of alteration       Chelmsford City Council Waltham Road Works for
the provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development
within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 4 of the streets, access and
rights of way plans, reference AS-D1. Chelmsford City Council Waltham Road
Works for the widening of the carriageway within the area shown shaded orange
on sheets 4 and 5 of the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference
AS-D2, to enable access to the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council
Waltham Road Works, including vegetation clearance, for the creation of
visibility splays on Waltham Road within the area shaded orange on sheets 4
and 5 of the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-D3, to
facilitate the works at reference AS-D1. Chelmsford City Council Waltham
Road/Cranham Road and Boreham Road Junction Works, including vegetation
clearance, on the Waltham Road/Cranham Road and Boreham Road junction within
the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans, reference AS-D4, to facilitate movement of construction traffic.
Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the widening of the carriageway
within the area shaded orange on sheets 5 and 6 of the streets, access and
rights of way plans, reference AS-E10, to enable access to the authorised
development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the widening of
the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the streets,
access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E11, to enable access to the
authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E12, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E13, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E14, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E15, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E16, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E17, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 5 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E18, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E9, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Cranham Road Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E8, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for
the widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of
the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E7, to enable access
to the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for
the widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of
the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E6, to enable access
to the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for
the widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of
the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E5, to enable access
to the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for
the widening of the carriageway to enable access to the authorised development
within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans, reference AS-E4, to enable access to the authorised development.
Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for the widening of the
carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of the streets, access
and rights of way plans, reference AS-E3, to enable access to the authorised
development. Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for the widening of
the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of the streets,
access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E2, to enable access to the
authorised development. Chelmsford City Council Wheelers Hill Works for the
widening of the carriageway within the area shaded orange on sheet 6 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-E1, to enable access to
the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council/ Braintree District
Council (border) Junction of Noakes Farm Road and Noakes Lane Works for the
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development within
the area shown shaded orange on sheet 8 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans, reference AS-I1. Braintree District Council Junction of Noakes Farm
Road and Noakes Lane Works, including vegetation clearance, for the creation
of visibility splays within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 8 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-I2, to facilitate the
works in AS-I1. Chelmsford City Council / Braintree District Council (border)
Noakes Lane Works for the provision of a permanent means of access to the
authorised development within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 8 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-I3. Chelmsford City
Council Noakes Lane Works, including vegetation clearance, for the creation of
visibility splays within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 8 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-I4, to facilitate the
works in AS-I3. Braintree District Council Noakes Lane Works, including
vegetation clearance, for the creation of visibility splays within the area
shown shaded orange, on sheet 8 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans, reference AS-I5, to facilitate the works in AS-I3.

##### PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT AND MAINTAINED BY THE STREET AUTHORITY

          (1)       Area         (2)       Street         (3)
Description of alteration       Chelmsford City Council Private Road Works for
the provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development
within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 1 of the streets, access and
rights of way plans, reference AS-A1. Chelmsford City Council Private Road
Works, including vegetation clearance, for the creation of visibility splays
within the area shaded orange on sheet 1 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans, reference AS-A2, to facilitate the works at reference AS-A1.
Braintree District Council Private Track Works for the provision of a
permanent means of access to the authorised development within the area shown
shaded orange on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plans,
reference AS-F1. Braintree District Council Private Track Works for the
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development within
the area shown shaded orange on sheets 3 and 4 of the streets, access and
rights of way plans, reference AS-F2. Braintree District Council Private Track
Works for the provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development within the area shown shaded orange on sheets 3 and 4 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-F3. Chelmsford City
Council Private Track Works for the provision of a permanent means of access
to the authorised development within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 4
of the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-G1. Chelmsford
City Council Private Track Works for the provision of a permanent means of
access to the authorised development within the area shown shaded orange on
sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-G2.
Braintree District Council Private Track Works for the provision of a
permanent means of access to the authorised development within the area shown
shaded orange on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights of way plans,
reference AS-H1. Braintree District Council Private Track Works for the
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development within
the area shown shaded orange on sheet 7 of the streets access and rights of
way plans, reference AS-H2. Braintree District Council Private Track Works for
the provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development
within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 7 of the streets, access and
rights of way plans, reference AS-H3. Braintree District Council Private Track
Works for the provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 7 of the streets,
access and rights of way plans, reference AS-H4. Braintree District Council
Private Track Works for the provision of a permanent means of access to the
authorised development within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 7 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-H5. Braintree District
Council Private Track Works for the provision of a permanent means of access
to the authorised development within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 9
of the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-J1. Braintree
District Council Private Track Works for the provision of a permanent means of
access to the authorised development within the area shown shaded orange on
sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of way plans, reference AS-J2.
Braintree District Council Private Track Works for the provision of a
permanent means of access to the authorised development within the area shown
shaded orange on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of way plans,
reference AS-J3. Braintree District Council Private Track Works for the
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development within
the area shown shaded orange on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans, reference AS-J4.

##### TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF LAYOUT

          (1)       Area         (2)       Street         (3)
Description of alteration       Chelmsford City Council Private Road Works for
the provision of a temporary means of access to the authorised development
within the area shaded orange on sheet 1 of the access and rights of way
plans, reference AS-A3. Chelmsford City Council Private Road Works, including
vegetation clearance, for the creation of visibility splays within the area
shaded orange on sheet 1 of the access and rights of way plans, reference
AS-A4, to facilitate the works at reference AS-A3. Chelmsford City Council
Private Road Works for the provision of a temporary means of access to the
authorised development within the area shaded orange on sheet 1 of the access
and rights of way plans, reference AS-A5. Chelmsford City Council Waltham Road
Works for the provision of a temporary means of access to the authorised
development within the area shown shaded orange on sheet 2 of the access and
rights of way plans, reference AS-C1.

  PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY

Article 11

##### PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED AND DIVERTED

          (1)       Area         (2)       Public right of way         (3)
Measure       Chelmsford City Council     213_20       The length of the
public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-B2 on sheet 2 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily closed for a distance
of 17 metres.     Temporarily closed and diverted along the route shown by a
dashed green line and labelled FD-B2 to facilitate the construction of the
authorised development. Chelmsford City Council     213_21       The length of
the public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-B3 on sheet 2 of
the streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily closed for a
distance of 32 metres.     Temporarily closed and diverted along the route
shown by a dashed green line and labelled FD-B3 to facilitate the construction
of the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council     213_19       The
length of the public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-B1 on
sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily closed
for a distance of 98 metres.     Temporarily closed and diverted along the
route shown by a dashed green line and labelled FD-B1 to facilitate the
construction of the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council /
Braintree District Council (border)     213_4       The length of the public
right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-G1 on sheet 4 of the streets,
access and rights of way plan to be temporarily closed for a distance of 492
metres.     Temporarily closed and diverted along the route shown by a dashed
green line and labelled FD-G1 to facilitate the construction of the authorised
development. Chelmsford City Council / Braintree District Council (border)
113_32       The length of the public right of way shown marked purple and
labelled FC-G2 on sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plan to be
temporarily closed for a distance of 487 metres.     Temporarily closed and
diverted along the route shown by a dashed green line and labelled FD-G2 to
facilitate the construction of the authorised development. Braintree District
Council     113_32       The length of the public right of way shown marked
purple and labelled FC-T2 on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way
plan (a distance of 225 metres) to be temporarily closed for a distance of no
more than 50 metres at a time.     Temporarily closed and diverted along a
route within the corridor shaded green and labelled FD-T2 to facilitate the
construction of the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council     213_18
The length of the public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T3
on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plan (a distance of 140
metres) to be temporarily closed for a distance of no more than 50 metres at a
time.     Temporarily closed and diverted along a route within the corridor
shaded green and labelled FD-T3 to facilitate the construction of the
authorised development. Chelmsford City Council     213_5       The length of
the public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T4 on sheet 4 of
the streets, access and rights of way plan (a distance of 295 metres) to be
temporarily closed for a distance of no more than 50 metres at a time.
Temporarily closed and diverted along a route within the corridor shaded green
and labelled FD-T4 to facilitate the construction of the authorised
development. Braintree District Council     113_30       The length of the
public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T7 on sheet 7 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan (a distance of 380 metres) to be
temporarily closed for a distance of no more than 50 metres at a time.
Temporarily closed and diverted along a route within the corridor shaded green
and labelled FD-T7 to facilitate the construction of the authorised
development. Braintree District Council     113_30       The length of the
public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T8 on sheet 7 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan (a distance of 110 metres) to be
temporarily closed for a distance of no more than 50 metres at a time.
Temporarily closed and diverted along a route within the corridor shaded green
and labelled FD-T8 to facilitate the construction of the authorised
development. Braintree District Council     221_53       The length of the
public right of way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T1 on sheets 8 and 9
of the streets, access and rights of way plan (a distance of 435 metres) to be
temporarily closed for a distance of no more than 50 metres.     Temporarily
closed and diverted along a route within the corridor shaded green and
labelled FD-T1 to facilitate the construction of the authorised development.
Braintree District Council     113_25       The length of the public right of
way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T6 on sheets 7 and 8 of the streets,
access and rights of way plan (a distance of 675 metres) to be temporarily
closed for a distance of no more than 50 metres at a time.     Temporarily
closed and diverted along a route within the corridor shaded green and
labelled FD-T6 to facilitate the construction of the authorised development.
Braintree District Council     113_33       The length of the public right of
way shown marked purple and labelled FC-T5 on sheet 9 of the streets, access
and rights of way plan (a distance of 340 metres) to be temporarily closed for
no more than 50 metres at a time.     Temporarily closed and diverted along a
route within the corridor shaded green and labelled FD-T5 to facilitate the
construction of the authorised development.

##### PERMANENT USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY

          (1)       Area         (2)       Public right of way         (3)
Measures       Chelmsford City Council     213_48       Between the points
marked green and labelled MV-A1 to MV-A2 on sheet 1 of the streets, access and
rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of the public right of
way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.
Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross,
the length of the public right of way.     Chelmsford City Council     213_24
Between the points marked green and labelled MV-A3 to MV-A4 on sheet 1 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of
the public right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of
the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may
pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of way.     Chelmsford
City Council     213_20       Between the points marked green and labelled
MV-B3 to MV-B4 on sheet 2 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.
Temporarily manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor
vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the
direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public
right of way.     Chelmsford City Council     213_21       Between the points
marked green and labelled MV-B5 to MV-B6 on sheet 2 of the streets, access and
rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of the public right of
way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.
Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross,
the length of the public right of way.     Chelmsford City Council     213_19
Between the points marked green and labelled MV-B1 to MV-B2 on sheet 3 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of
the public right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of
the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may
pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of way.     Chelmsford
City Council     213_18       Between the points marked green and labelled
MV-F1 to MV-F2 on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.
Temporarily manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor
vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the
direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public
right of way.     Chelmsford City Council / Braintree District Council
(border)     213_4       Between the points marked green and labelled MV-G1 to
MV-G2 on sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.
Temporarily manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor
vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the
direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public
right of way.     Chelmsford City Council/ Braintree District Council (border)
113_32       Between the points marked green and labelled MV-G3 to MV-G4 on
sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily
manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under
the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of
the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of
way.     Chelmsford City Council/ Braintree District Council (border)
113_32       Between the points marked green and labelled MV-G5 to MV-G6 on
sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily
manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under
the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of
the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of
way.     Braintree District Council     113_30       Between the points marked
green and labelled MV-H1 to MV-H2 on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights
of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of the public right of way
whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.
Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross,
the length of the public right of way.     Braintree District Council
113_30       Between the points marked green and labelled MV-H3 to MV-H4 on
sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily
manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under
the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of
the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of
way.     Braintree District Council     113_25       Between the points marked
green and labelled MV-H5 to MV-H6 on sheets 7 and 8 of the streets, access and
rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of the public right of
way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.
Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross,
the length of the public right of way.     Chelmsford City Council     221_53
Between the points marked green and labelled MV-I1 to MV-I2 on sheet 8 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of
the public right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of
the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may
pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of way.     Braintree
District Council     113_33       Between the points marked green and labelled
MV-J1 to MVJ2 on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of way plan.
Temporarily manage users of the public right of way whilst in use by motor
vehicles under the direction of the undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the
direction of the undertaker may pass along, or cross, the length of the public
right of way.     Braintree District Council     113_33       Between the
points marked green and labelled MV-J3 to MVJ4 on sheet 9 of the streets,
access and rights of way plan.         Temporarily manage users of the public
right of way whilst in use by motor vehicles under the direction of the
undertaker.       Motor vehicles under the direction of the undertaker may
pass along, or cross, the length of the public right of way.

##### TEMPORARY MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY

          (1)       Area         (2)       Public right of way         (3)
Measure       Chelmsford City Council     213_20       The length of the
public right of way shown marked light blue and between points PM-B5 to PM-B6
on sheet 2 of the streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily
managed for a distance of 66 metres.     Temporarily manage users of the
public right of way during the construction of the authorised development.
Chelmsford City Council     213_21       The length of the public right of way
shown marked light blue and between points PM-B7 to PM-B8 on sheet 2 of the
streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily managed for a
distance of 17 metres.     Temporarily manage users of the public right of way
during the construction of the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council
213_21       The length of the public right of way shown marked light blue and
between points PM-B9 to PM-B10 on sheet 2 of the streets, access and rights of
way plan to be temporarily managed for a distance of 6 metres.     Temporarily
manage users of the public right of way during the construction of the
authorised development. Chelmsford City Council     213_19       The length of
the public right of way shown marked light blue and between points PM-B1 to
PM-B2 on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plan to be
temporarily managed for a distance of 103 metres.     Temporarily manage users
of the public right of way during the construction of the authorised
development. Chelmsford City Council     213_19       The length of the public
right of way shown marked light blue and between points PM-B3 to PM-B4 on
sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily
managed for a distance of 88 metres.     Temporarily manage users of the
public right of way during the construction of the authorised development.
Braintree District Council     213_4       The length of the public right of
way shown marked light blue and between points PM-G1 to PM-G2 on sheet 4 of
the streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily managed for a
distance of 50 metres.     Temporarily manage users of the public right of way
during the construction of the authorised development. Chelmsford City Council
/ Braintree District Council (border)     113_32       The length of the
public right of way shown marked light blue and between points PM-G3 to PM-G4
on sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plan to be temporarily
managed for a distance of 50 metres.     Temporarily manage users of the
public right of way during the construction of the authorised development.

  ACCESS TO WORKS

Article 12

##### PERMANENT MEANS OF ACCESS TO WORKS

          (1)       Area         (2)       Street         (3)
Description of means of access       Chelmsford City Council Private Road The
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development from
the northern side of the private road between the points marked AC-A1 and
AC-A2 on sheet 1 of the streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree
District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent means of access to
the authorised development from the northern side of the private track between
the points marked AC-F1 and AC-F2 on sheet 3 of the streets, access and rights
of way plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a
permanent means of access to the authorised development from the southern side
of the private track between the points marked AC-F3 and AC-F4 on sheet 3 of
the streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council
Private Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the northern side of the private track between the points
marked AC-F5 and AC-F6 on sheets 3 and 4 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a
permanent means of access to the authorised development from the southern side
of the private track between the points marked AC-F7 and AC-F8 on sheets 3 and
4 of the streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council
Private Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the southern side of the private track between the points
marked AC-F9 and AC-F10 on sheets 3 and 4 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans. Chelmsford City Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the southwest side of the
private track between the points marked AC-G1 and AC-G2 on sheet 4 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans. Chelmsford City Council/ Braintree
District Council(border) Private Track The provision of a permanent means of
access to the authorised development from the northern side of the private
track between the points marked AC-G3 and AC-G4 on sheet 4 of the streets,
access and rights of way plans. Chelmsford City Council / Braintree District
Council (border)     Private Track     The provision of a permanent means of
access to the authorised development from the southern side of the private
track between the points marked AC-G5 and AC-G6 on sheet 4 of the streets,
access and rights of way plans. Chelmsford City Council Waltham Road The
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development from
the northern side of Waltham Road between the points marked AC-D1 and AC-D2 on
sheet 4 of the streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District
Council Private Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the
authorised development from the northwestern side of the private track between
the points marked AC-H1 and AC-H2 on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights
of way plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a
permanent means of access to the authorised development from the southeastern
side of the private track between the points marked AC-H3 and AC-H4 on sheet 7
of the streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council
Private Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the western side of the private track between the points
marked AC-H5 and AC-H6 on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the eastern side of the
private track between the points marked AC-H7 and AC-H8 on sheet 7 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council Private
Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the western side of the private track between the points
marked AC-H9 and AC-H10 on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the northern side of the
private track between the points marked AC-H11 and AC-H12 on sheet 7 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council Private
Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the western side of the private track between the points
marked AC-H13 and AC-H14 on sheet 7 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the eastern side of the
private track between the points marked AC-H15 and AC-H16 on sheet 7 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans. Chelmsford City Council / Braintree
District Council (border) Junction of Noakes Farm Road and Noakes Lane The
provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised development from
the southern side of the Junction of Noakes Farm Road and Noakes Lane between
the points marked AC-I1 and AC-I2 on sheet 8 of the streets, access and rights
of way plans. Chelmsford City Council / Braintree District Council (border)
Junction of Noakes Farm Road and Noakes Lane The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the northern side of the
Junction of Noakes Farm Road and Noakes Lane between the points marked AC-I3
and AC-I4 on sheet 8 of the streets, access and rights of way plans.
Chelmsford City Council Noakes Lane The provision of a permanent means of
access to the authorised development from the western side of Noakes Lane
between the points marked AC-I5 and AC-I6 on sheet 8 of the streets, access
and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council Noakes Lane The provision
of a permanent means of access to the authorised development from the eastern
side of Noakes Lane between the points marked AC-I7 and AC-I8 on sheet 8 of
the streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council
Private Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the northern side of the private track between the points
marked AC-J1 and AC-J2 on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the southern side of the
private track between the points marked AC-J3 and AC-J4 on sheet 9 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council Private
Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the northern side of the private track between the points
marked AC-J5 and AC-J6 on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the southern side of the
private track between the points marked AC-J7 and AC-J8 on sheet 9 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans. Braintree District Council Private
Track The provision of a permanent means of access to the authorised
development from the southern side of the private track between the points
marked AC-J9 and AC-J10 on sheet 9 of the streets, access and rights of way
plans. Braintree District Council Private Track The provision of a permanent
means of access to the authorised development from the western side of the
private track between the points marked AC-J11 and AC-J12 on sheet 9 of the
streets, access and rights of way plans.

##### TEMPORARY MEANS OF ACCESS

          (1)       Area         (2)       Street         (3)
Description of means of access       Chelmsford City Council Private Road The
provision of a temporary means of access to the authorised development from
the northern side of the Private Road between the points marked AC-A3 and
AC-A4 on sheet 1 of the streets, access and rights of way plans. Chelmsford
City Council Private Road The provision of a temporary means of access to the
authorised development from the southern side of the Private Road between the
points marked AC-A5 and AC-A6 on sheet 1 of the streets, access and rights of
way plans. Chelmsford City Council Waltham Road The provision of a temporary
means of access to the authorised development from the eastern side of Waltham
Road between the points marked AC-C1 and AC-C2 on sheet 2 of the streets,
access and rights of way plans. Chelmsford City Council Waltham Road The
provision of a temporary means of access to the authorised development from
the western side of Waltham Road between the points marked AC-C3 and AC-C4 on
sheet 2 of the streets, access and rights of way plans.

  TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES

Article 14

          (1)       Area         (2)       Extent of temporary traffic signal
and banksman control area       Chelmsford City Council     Private Road
An area of private road in a generally easterly direction for a distance of
1050 metres as shown with a green broken line on sheet 1 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, reference TS1.     Chelmsford City Council
Junction of Waltham Road and Chantry Lane       An area of existing highway in
a generally northerly direction on Waltham Road for a distance of 100 metres
and in a generally easterly direction on Chantry Lane for a distance of 50
metres as shown with a green broken line on sheet 2 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, reference TS2.     Chelmsford City Council     Waltham Road
Junction       An area of existing highway in a generally northwesterly
direction on Waltham Road for a distance of 320 metres, in a generally
northwesterly direction on Boreham Road for a distance of 30 metres and in a
generally southwesterly direction on Cranham Road for a distance of 30 metres
as shown with a green broken line on sheets 4 and 5 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, reference TS3.     Chelmsford City Council     Cranham Road
and Wheelers Hill       An area of existing highway in a generally westerly
direction on Cranham Road and Wheelers Hill for a distance of 2805 metres as
shown with a green broken line on sheets 5 and 6 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, reference TS4.     Chelmsford City Council / Braintree
District Council (border)     Noakes Lane and Noakes Farm Road       An area
of existing highway in a generally southeasterly direction on Noakes Lane for
a distance of 360 metres and in a generally northeasterly direction on Noakes
Farm Road for a distance of 525 metres as shown with a green broken line on
sheets 7 and 8 of the traffic regulation measures plans, reference TS5.
Braintree District Council     Noakes Farm Road       An area of existing
highway in a generally northeasterly direction on Noakes Farm Road for a
distance of 170 metres as shown with a green broken line on sheet 7 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, reference TS6.

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 20

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ access rights ” means rights over land to—         alter, improve,
form, maintain, retain, use (with or without vehicles, plant and machinery),
remove, reinstate means of access to the authorised development including
visibility splays and road widening and to remove impediments (including
vegetation) to such access; and           pass and repass on foot, with or
without vehicles, plant and machinery (including rights to lay and use any
temporary surface) for all purposes in connection with the authorised
development;                 “ cable rights ” means rights over land to—
install, use, support, protect, inspect, alter, remove, replace, retain,
renew, improve and maintain electrical underground cables, earthing cables,
optical fibre cables, data cables, telecommunications cables and other
services, works associated with such cables including bays, ducts, protection
and safety measures and equipment, and other apparatus and structures;
remain, pass and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery
(including rights to lay and use any temporary surface or form a temporary
compound) for all purposes in connection with the authorised development; and
restrict and remove the erection of buildings or structures, restrict the
altering of ground levels, restrict and remove vegetation and restrict the
planting of trees or carrying out operations or actions (including but not
limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct, interrupt or interfere
with the exercise of the rights or damage the authorised development;
“ substation connection rights ” means rights over land to—         install,
use, support, protect, inspect, alter, remove, replace, retain, renew, improve
and maintain electrical cables, earthing cables, optical fibre cables, data
cables, telecommunications cables and other services, works associated with
such cables including bays, ducts, protection and safety measures and
equipment, and other apparatus and structures and to connect such cables and
services to the National Grid Bulls Lodge substation;           install, use,
support, protect, inspect, alter, remove, replace, retain, renew, improve and
maintain watercourses, public sewers and drains and drainage apparatus and
equipment;           remain, pass and repass on foot, with or without
vehicles, plant and machinery (including rights to lay and use any temporary
surface or form a temporary compound) for all purposes in connection with the
Bulls Lodge substation works;           restrict and remove the erection of
buildings or structures, restrict the altering of ground levels, restrict and
remove the planting of trees or carrying out operations or actions (including
but not limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct, interrupt or
interfere with the exercise of the rights or damage the authorised
development; and           install, use, support, protect, inspect, alter,
remove, replace, retain, renew, improve and maintain soft landscaping and
biodiversity measures.             (1)       Plot reference number shown on
the Land Plans         (2)       Purposes for which rights over land may be
required and restrictive covenants imposed       Land Plans – Sheet 1 1/1A
(excluding subsoil interests) access rights 1/1B cable rights 1/2A (excluding
subsoil interests) access rights 1/2A/2 cable rights 1/2B cable rights and
access rights 1/2D/1 (excluding subsoil interests) access rights 1/2E cable
rights 1/2F cable rights 1/3A substation connection rights Land Plans – Sheet
2 2/1A cable rights 2/1B cable rights 2/1E cable rights 2/2 cable rights 2/3
cable rights 2/4 cable rights 2/5 cable rights 2/6 cable rights Land Plans –
Sheet 3 3/4 cable rights Land Plans – Sheet 4 4/2 (excluding subsoil
interests) access rights 5/1A (excluding subsoil interests) access rights Land
Plans – Sheet 5 5/1B (excluding subsoil interests) access rights Land Plans –
Sheet 6 6/1 (excluding subsoil interests) access rights Land Plans – Sheet 7
7/2 access rights 7/2/2 access rights Land Plans – Sheet 8 8/2 access rights
8/2/1 (excluding subsoil interests) access rights 8/2/2 access rights

MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR THE
CREATION OF NEW RIGHTS AND   IMPOSITION   OF NEW RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

Article 20

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land are to apply, with the necessary modifications
as respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply as respects compensation on the compulsory
purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  1 , the Land Compensation Act
1973  has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph  5 —

2.2.a

for the words “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or
restrictive covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

2.2.b

for the words “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right
is exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

3

3.1

Without limitation to the scope of paragraph  1 , the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

3.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

3.2.5A

If—

3.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purpose of exercising a right
in pursuant of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph  5(5)  of Schedule 10 to the Longfield Solar Farm Order
2023);

3.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph  5(8)
of Schedule 10 to the Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023) to acquire an interest
in the land; and

3.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land where it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act to the acquisition of land under article  18
(compulsory acquisition of land) and as modified by article  25  (modification
of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965), applies to the compulsory
acquisition of a right by the creation of a new right under article  20
(compulsory acquisition of rights)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph  5 ; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph  4(a)  are as follows—

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is to be enforceable.

5.3

For section 7 of the 1965 Act (measure of compensation in case of severance)
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified to secure that, as against persons with interests in the land
which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to be
compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified to secure that, as
from the date on which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in
respect of any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry
required by subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory
acquisition under article  18  (compulsory acquisition of land)), it has
power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent
conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing
that restrictive covenant (which is deemed for this purpose to have been
created on the date of service of the notice); and sections 11A  (powers of
entry: further notices of entry), 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to
be taken on specified date), 12  (unauthorised entry) and 13  (refusal to give
possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act are modified
correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article  25(4)  (modification of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965)
is so modified as to enable the acquiring authority, in circumstances
corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled
to exercise the right acquired or restrictive covenant imposed, subject to
compliance with that section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (counter notice requiring purchase of land not
in notice to treat) substitute—

COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part
of a house, building or factory and have not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act as applied by article  22
(application of the 1981 Act) of the Longfield Solar Farm Order 2023 in
respect of the land to which the notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article  23(3)  (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Longfield Solar
Farm Order 2023 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only from this
Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############ Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the authority to purchase the owner’s
interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############ Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of three months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal
they must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the authority does not serve notice of a decision within the decision
period they are to be treated as if they had served notice of a decision to
withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice, the
compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

############ Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory; cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the authority may at any
time within the period of six weeks beginning with the day on which the Upper
Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to treat in relation to
that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
they must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any
loss or expense cause by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

5.8.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 27

          (1)       Plot reference number shown on the Land Plans         (2)
Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken       Land Plans – Sheet 1
1/1B/1 Temporary use as construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B) 1/2A/2/1
Temporary use as construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B) 1/2D Temporary use
as construction laydown areas, works to facilitate access, and temporary
overhead line alterations including two new temporary pylons and realignment
of the existing 400kV overhead line. (Work Nos. 7B, 9 and 5B) Land Plans –
Sheet 2 2/1B/1 Temporary use as construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B)
2/1B/2 Temporary use as construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B) 2/1B/3
Temporary use as construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B) 2/1E/1 Temporary use
as construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B) 2/6/1 Temporary use as
construction laydown areas (Work No. 4B)

  HEDGEROWS TO BE REMOVED

Article 36

          (1)       Area         (2)       Number of hedgerow and extent of
removal         (3)       Purpose of removal       Braintree District Council
Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the area
identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 1 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 2 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 3 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 4 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 5 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Chelmsford City Council
Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the area
identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 6 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 7 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 8 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 9 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 10 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Chelmsford City Council
Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the area
identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 11 To
create a visibility splay Chelmsford City Council / Braintree District Council
(border) Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 12 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Chelmsford City Council
/ Braintree District Council (border) Removal of that part of the hedgerow
shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 13 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development and to create a visibility splay Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 14 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Braintree District
Council Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the
area identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 16 To
facilitate construction of the authorised development Chelmsford City Council
Removal of that part of the hedgerow shown approximately within the area
identified by a pink line on the vegetation removal plan, reference 17 To
create a visibility splay Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 18 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Braintree District Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 19 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Braintree District Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 20 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 21 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 22 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 23 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 24 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 25 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 26 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 27 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development Chelmsford City Council Removal of that part of the
hedgerow shown approximately within the area identified by a pink line on the
vegetation removal plan, reference 28 To facilitate construction of the
authorised development

DOCUMENTS AND PLANS TO BE CERTIFIED

Article 38

Table 1 (1) Document name (2) Document reference (3) Revision number (4) Date
biodiversity design strategy 7.3.B 1.0 February 2022 book of reference 4.3(B)
3.0 January 2023 Bulls Lodge substation extension drainage strategy Appendix
9D contained in the environmental statement (document reference 6.2) 1.0
November 2021   decommissioning strategy 7.12(A) 2.0 August 2022 environmental
statement environmental statement volume 1: 6.1 (excluding chapters 2,  ...,
7, 10, 14) >1.0 February 2022 environmental statement volume 1: 6.1(A)
(chapters 2, and 10) 2.0 August 2022 . . . . . . . . . environmental statement
volume 1: 6.1(B) (chapter 7) 3.0 September 2022 environmental statement volume
1: 6.1(A) (chapter 14) 2.0 November 2022 environmental statement volume 2: 6.2
(excluding appendices 2A, 7A, 9A,  9D,   10F, 13B   , 13C  ) 1.0 February 2022
environmental statement volume 2: 6.2(A) (appendix 2A) 2.0 December 2022
environmental statement volume 2: 6.2(A) (appendix 7A) 2.0 September 2022
environmental statement volume 2: 6.2(A) (appendices 9A, 10F) 2.0 August 2022
environmental  statement volume 2: 6.2(B) (appendix 9D)  1.0 November 2021
environmental statement volume 2: 6.2  (B)   (appendix 13B)   5.0     January
2023     environmental  statement volume 2: 6.2(A) (appendix 13C)  2.0
October 2022 environmental statement volume 3: 6.3 (excluding figures  ...,
2-5, 2-27, 2-32,   10-10-2, 10-12,  10-13 (visualisations 4 and 5 of 5) and
10-15) 1.0 February 2022 environmental statement volume 3: 6.3(A) (figure 2-3)
2.0 August 2022 . . . 2.0 September 2022 environmental statement volume 3:
6.3(A) (figure 10-13 (visualisations 4 and 5 of 5)) 2.0 October 2022
environmental statement volume 3 6.3(C) (figure 10-15) 4.0 November 2022
environmental statement volume 3: 6.3B (figure 2-5) 3.0 December 2022
>environmental statement volume 3: 6.3B (figure 2-27) 3.0 December 2022 cable
route and substation ecology survey: 8.7 1.0 August 2022 Wheeler’s Hill and
Cranham Road ecology survey: 8.8 1.0 August 2022 arboricultural impact
assessment 8.13 1.0 October 2022 Phase 1 ecology survey report 8.14 1.0
October 2022 Ecology appraisal for Boreham Road AIL Access 8.18 1.0 November
2022 flood risk assessment Appendix 9A contained in the environmental
statement (document reference 6.2(A)) 2.0 August 2022 framework construction
traffic management plan Appendix 13B contained in the environmental statement
(document reference 6.2  (B)  ) 5.0 January 2023 land plans 2.1(A) 2.0
September 2022 outline battery safety management plan 7.6 1.0 February 2022
outline construction environmental management plan 7.10(C) 4.0 November 2022
outline design principles 7.3.A(D) 5.0 December 2022 outline landscape and
ecological management plan 7.13  (D)   6.0 January 2023 outline operational
environmental management plan 7.11  (A)   4.0 November 2022 outline public
rights of way management plan Appendix 13C contained in the environmental
statement (document reference 6.2(A)) 2.0 October 2022 outline soils resource
management plan 8.16 1.0 October 2022 overarching written scheme of
investigation 8.11(A) 2.0 October 2022 permissive paths plans 7.14(A) 2.0
January 2023 streets, access and rights of way plans 2.3(A) 2.0 October 2022
SuDS strategy Appendix 9C contained in the environmental statement (document
reference 6.2) 1.0 February 2022 traffic regulation measures plans 2.4 1.0
February 2022 vegetation removal plan Figure 10-15 (document reference 6.3(C))
4.0 November 2022 works plans 2.2(B) 3.0 October 2022

  ARBITRATION RULES

Article 39

##### Commencing an arbitration

1

1.1

The primary objective of these arbitration rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within 4 months from the date the arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article  39  of this Order.

1.2

The arbitration is deemed to have commenced when a party (“ the claimant ”)
serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (“ the respondent
”).

##### Time periods

2

2.1

All time periods in these arbitration rules are measured in days and include
weekends, but not bank or public holidays.

2.2

Time periods are calculated from the day after the arbitrator is appointed
which is either—

2.2.a

the date the arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable

3

3.1

The timetable for the arbitration is that which is set out in sub-paragraphs
(2)  to  (4)  below unless amended in accordance with paragraph  5(3) .

3.2

Within 14 days of the arbitrator being appointed, the claimant must provide
both the respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written statement of claim which describes the nature of the difference
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, the amount of its claim or the remedy it is seeking;

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 14 days of receipt of the claimant’s statements under sub-paragraph
(2)  by the arbitrator and respondent, the respondent must provide the
claimant and the arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written statement of defence consisting of a response to the claimant’s
statement of claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the difference,
the legal and factual issues in the claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any
elements of the claimant’s claim and its contentions as to those elements of
the claimant’s claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports;

3.3.c

any objection it wishes to make to the claimant’s statements, comments on the
claimant’s expert reports (if submitted by the claimant) and explanations of
the objections.

3.4

Within seven days of the respondent serving its statements under sub-paragraph
(3) , the claimant may make a statement of reply by providing both the
respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the respondent; and

3.4.e

its written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure

4

4.1

The parties’ pleadings, witness statements and expert reports (if any) must be
concise. A single pleading must not exceed 30 single-sided A4 pages using 10pt
Arial font.

4.2

The arbitrator must make an award on the substantive differences based solely
on the written material submitted by the parties unless the arbitrator decides
that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.3

Either party may, within two days of delivery of the last submission, request
a hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is required.

4.4

Within seven days of receiving the last submission, the arbitrator must notify
the parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.5

Within ten days of the arbitrator advising the parties that a hearing is to be
held, the date and venue for the hearing are to be fixed by agreement with the
parties, save that if there is no agreement the arbitrator must direct a date
and venue which the arbitrator considers is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.6

A decision must be made by the arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the arbitrator, then any experts attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the arbitrator.

4.7

There is to be no examination or cross-examination of experts, but the
arbitrator must invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way of
clarification of any answers given by the experts in response to the
arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing in relation to the experts—

4.7.a

at least 28 days before a hearing, the arbitrator must provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the experts;

4.7.b

if more than one expert is called, they must jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within 14 days of the issues being provided; and

4.7.c

the form and content of a joint report must be as directed by the arbitrator
and must be provided at least seven days before the hearing.

4.8

Within 14 days of a hearing or a decision by the arbitrator that no hearing is
to be held the parties may by way of exchange provide the arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The arbitrator must take these submissions into account in the
award.

4.9

The arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within four months of the
date on which the arbitrator is appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree
to an extension to the date for the award.

4.10

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the information before the
arbitrator attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond
any timetable or in breach of any procedure or direction.

4.11

The arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties must accept that the
extent to which reasons are given must be proportionate to the issues in
dispute and the time available to the arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers

5

5.1

The arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996, save where
modified in this Schedule.

5.2

There must be no discovery or disclosure, except that the arbitrator has the
power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the statement of reply, or by the
arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders are to be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the arbitrator may vary the timescales or procedure—

5.3.a

if the arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice and
then;

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the arbitrator will notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it is to be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs

6

6.1

The costs of the arbitration must include the fees and expenses of the
arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the arbitration.

6.2

Where the difference involves connected or interrelated issues, the arbitrator
must consider the relevant costs collectively.

6.3

The final award must fix the costs of the arbitration and decide which of the
parties are to bear them or in what proportion they are to be borne by the
parties.

6.4

The arbitrator must award recoverable costs on the general principle that each
party should bear its own costs, having regard to all material circumstances,
including such matters as exaggerated claims or defences, the degree of
success for different elements of the claims, claims that have incurred
substantial costs, the conduct of the parties and the degree of success of a
party.

##### Confidentiality

7

7.1

Hearings in this arbitration are to take place in private.

7.2

Materials, documents, awards, expert reports and any matters relating to the
arbitration are confidential and must not be disclosed to any third party
without prior written consent of the other party, save for any application to
the courts or where disclosure is required under any legislative or regulatory
requirement.

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Article 40

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this part of this
Schedule, the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertakers concerned.

2

In this part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
not less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an
electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 ) , belonging to or maintained by that utility
undertaker; in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter for the purposes of
gas supply; in the case of a water undertaker— mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker for the purposes of
water supply; and any water mains or service pipes (or part of a water main or
service pipe) that is the subject of an agreement to adopt made under section
51A of the Water Industry Act 1991; in the case of a sewerage undertaker— any
drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under the Water Industry Act
1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of
intention to adopt given under section 102(4) of that Act or an agreement to
adopt made under section 104 of that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal
main (within the meaning of section 219 of that Act) or sewer outfall and any
manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any
such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is
or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus; and any
other mains, pipelines or cables that are not the subject of the protective
provisions in Parts 2 to 6 of this Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and
duties; “in”, in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in
land, includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over
or upon land; and “ utility undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 ; water undertaker within the meaning of
the Water Industry Act 1991; a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part
1 of the Water Industry Act 1991, and an owner or operator of apparatus within
paragraph (e) of the definition of that term, for the area of the authorised
development, and in relation to any apparatus, means the utility undertaker to
whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

3

This part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

4

Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets under
the powers conferred by article  11  (temporary closure of public rights of
way), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all necessary
access across any such street and to execute and do all such works and things
in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable
to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or
restriction was in that street.

5

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

6

6.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over
which access to any apparatus is enjoyed or requires that the utility
undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be
removed under this part of this Schedule, and any right of a utility
undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it
must not be extinguished, until alternative apparatus has been constructed and
is in operation, and access to it has been provided, to the reasonable
satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question in accordance with sub-
paragraphs  (2)  to  (7) .

6.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question written notice of that requirement, together
with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of
the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or
if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order
a utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

6.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) , in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

6.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article  39  (arbitration).

6.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article  39  (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this part of this Schedule.

6.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if the undertaker gives notice
in writing to the utility undertaker in question that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work, in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

6.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (6)  authorises the undertaker to execute the
placing, installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection
of any apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the
apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

7

7.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  39
(arbitration).

7.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

8

8.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph  6(2) , the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan, section and description
of the works to be executed.

8.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)
by the utility undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the utility undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

8.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (2)  must
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph  (1)  are submitted to it.

8.4

If a utility undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  1  to  7  apply as if the removal of the apparatus
had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  6(2) .

8.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

8.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
must comply with sub-paragraph  (2)  in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

9

9.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph  6(2) .

9.2

There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this part of this
Schedule, that value being calculated after removal.

9.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule—

9.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

9.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  39  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph  (1)  is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

9.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

9.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus where such extension is required in
consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph
6(2) ; and

9.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

9.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

10

10.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any of the works referred to in paragraph  6(2) , any
damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is
not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of
those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is any interruption
in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility
undertaker, the undertaker must—

10.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

10.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

10.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

10.3

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

11

Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaking in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

12

12.1

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

12.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;           “
electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code;           “ the electronic communications code
” has the same meaning as in section 106 (application of the electronic
communications code) of the 2003 Act;           “ electronic communications
code network ” means—         so much of an electronic communications network
or conduit system provided by an electronic communications code operator as is
not excluded from the application of the electronic communications code by a
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and           an electronic
communications network which the Secretary of State is providing or proposing
to provide;                 “ electronic communications code operator ” means
a person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and           “ operator ” means
the operator of an electronic communications code network.

13

The exercise of the powers of article  29  (statutory undertakers) is subject
to Part 10 (undertakers’ works affecting electronic communications apparatus)
of the electronic communications code.

14

14.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (4) , if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

14.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

14.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

14.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

14.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

14.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
39  (arbitration).

15

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

15.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

15.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

16

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF EASTERN POWER NETWORKS PLC AND UK POWER NETWORKS LIMITED

17

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this part of this
Schedule, the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertakers concerned.

18

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner not less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means
electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 ),
belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker, to include any electric
lines diverted or undergrounded as part of the authorised development;
“ functions ” includes powers and duties;           “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and
“ utility undertaker ” means—         Eastern Power Network Plc, whose
registered office is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London,
SE1 6NP;           UK Power Networks Limited, whose registered office is at
Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London, SE1 6NP,

for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus,
means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

19

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

20

Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets under
the powers conferred by article  11  (temporary closure of public rights of
way), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all necessary
access across any such street and to execute and do all such works and things
in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable
to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or
restriction was in that street.

21

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than with the prior
written agreement of the utility undertaker.

22

22.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over
which access to any apparatus is enjoyed or requires that the utility
undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be
removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right of a utility
undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it
must not be extinguished, until alternative apparatus has been constructed and
is in operation, and access to it has been provided, to the reasonable
satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question in accordance with sub-
paragraphs  (2)  to  (6) .

22.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement
together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed
position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in
that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred
by this Order a utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its
apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  afford to the
utility undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

22.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) , in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written notice
to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

22.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article  39  (arbitration).

22.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article  39  (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

22.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5)  if the undertaker gives notice
in writing to the utility undertaker in question that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work, in connection with the removal of
apparatus or construction of alternative apparatus in any land controlled by
the undertaker, that work, instead of being executed by the utility
undertaker, must be executed by the undertaker without unnecessary delay and
only in accordance with plans approved by the utility undertaker, such
approval may be subject to such reasonable conditions including but not
limited to the undertaker entering into an assets protection agreement with
the utility undertaker as the utility undertaker deems necessary. The
undertaker must carry out the works under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker subject to the
utility undertaker’s reasonable specification.

23

23.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  39
(arbitration).

23.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

24

24.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on, over
or under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that
are over, under or near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal
of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  22 , the
undertaker must submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan, section
and description of the works to be executed.

24.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)
by the utility undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the utility undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

24.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (2)  must
be made within a period of 28 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph  (1)  are submitted to it.

24.4

If a utility undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  17  to  23  apply as if the removal of the apparatus
had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  22(2) .

24.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

24.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
must comply with sub-paragraph  (2)  in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

25

25.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all reasonable expenses incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph  22(2) .

25.2

There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule, that value being calculated after removal.

25.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

25.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

25.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  39  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph  (1)  is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

25.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

25.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus where such extension is required in
consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph
22(2) ; and

25.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

25.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than seven years and six months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

26

26.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any of the works referred to in paragraph  22(2) , any
damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is
not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of
those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is any interruption
in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility
undertaker, the undertaker must—

26.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

26.1.b

make compensation to that utility undertaker for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

26.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  22(2)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

26.3

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.

27

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph  22(2)  or a utility undertaker makes requirements
for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  24 , the
undertaker must use reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the
works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe
and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

28

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaking in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

29

Any difference under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker, be determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  39  (arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER

###### Application

30

30.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

30.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article  33  (consent to
transfer the benefit of the Order)—

30.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

30.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

30.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply where the benefit of the Order is
transferred or granted to National Grid.

###### Interpretation

31

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus
” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by National Grid,   together with any
replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to the
Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of
transmission, distribution and/or supply and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus;           “ authorised development ” has the same meaning as in
article  2  (interpretation) of this Order and includes any associated
development authorised by the Order and (unless otherwise specified) for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised development and construction of any works authorised by this
Schedule;           “commence” and “ commencement ” has the same meaning as in
article  2  (interpretation) of this Order and commencement is construed to
have the same meaning save that for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule
only the term commence and commencement includes any below ground surveys,
monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection of construction
plant and equipment within 15 metres of any apparatus;           “ deed of
consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary and/or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such
interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry
out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the
terms of this Part of this Schedule;           “ functions ” includes powers
and duties;           “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by
National Grid (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)
setting out the necessary mitigation measures (if any) for a ground subsidence
event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring
ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such
monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground
levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and
the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, will require the
undertaker to submit for National Grid’s approval a ground mitigation scheme;
“ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the
monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has
exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a
ground mitigation scheme;           “in” in a context referring to apparatus
or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or
alternative apparatus under, over, across along or upon such land;
“maintain” and “maintenance” shall include the ability and right to do any of
the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of
National Grid including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or
remove the apparatus;           “ National Grid ” means National Grid
Electricity Transmission Plc (company number 2366977) whose registered office
is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor as a licence holder within
the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;           “ undertaker ”
means the undertaker as defined in article  2(1)  of this Order;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed; and           “ specified works ” means
any of the authorised development or activities undertaken in association with
the authorised development which—         will or may be situated over, or
within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2)  of
otherwise;           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal
of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2)  or
otherwise; and/or           includes activity that is referred to in
development near overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of
Danger from Overhead Lines.

###### On Street Apparatus

32

Except for paragraphs  33  (apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to
temporary closure),  38  (retained apparatus: protection of electricity
undertaker),  39  (expenses) and  40  (indemnity) of this Schedule which will
apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under this Order
affecting the rights and apparatus of National Grid, the other provisions of
this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the undertaker and National Grid are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to temporary closure

33

Notwithstanding the temporary closure or diversion of any street under the
powers of article  11  (temporary closure of public rights of way), National
Grid will be at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any
such closed street and/or to execute and do all such works and things in, upon
or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable
it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the closure or diversion was
in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

34

34.1

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article  16
(protective works to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to
obstruct or render less convenient the access to any apparatus without the
written consent of National Grid and, if by reason of the exercise of those
powers any damage to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal or abandonment) or
property of National Grid or any interruption in the supply of electricity by
National Grid is caused, the undertaker must bear and pay on demand the cost
reasonably incurred by National Grid in making good such damage or restoring
the supply; and, subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , must—

34.1.a

pay compensation to National Grid for any loss sustained by it; and

34.1.b

indemnify National Grid against all claims, demands, proceedings, costs,
damages and expenses which may be made or taken against or recovered from or
incurred by that undertaker, by reason of any such damage or interruption.

34.2

Nothing in this paragraph imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect
to any damage or interruption to the extent that such damage or interruption
is attributable to the act, neglect or default of National Grid or its
contractors or workmen; and National Grid will give to the undertaker
reasonable notice of any claim or demand as aforesaid and no settlement or
compromise thereof may be made by National Grid, save in respect of any
payment required under a statutory compensation scheme, without first
consulting the undertaker and giving the undertaker an opportunity to make
representations as to the claim or demand.

###### Acquisition of land

35

35.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to this Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land interest or
appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any easement,
other interest or right and/or apparatus of National Grid otherwise than by
agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld).

35.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) , prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised development (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by
all other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are
affected by such authorised development.

35.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation and/or removal of apparatus (including but not
limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation
and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement,
rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by
National Grid and/or other enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right
or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this
Schedule will prevail.

35.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraphs  37  or  38
or any other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, must not be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Removal of apparatus

36

36.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  35
or in any other authorised manner, the undertaker acquires any interest in or
possesses temporarily any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule and any right
of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National Grid in accordance with
sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (5) .

36.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works comprised in the authorised
development in, on, under or over any land purchased, held, appropriated or
used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus
placed in that land, it must give to National Grid advance written notice of
that requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the
proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed
and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers
conferred by this Order National Grid reasonably needs to remove any of its
apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , secure any
necessary consents for the alternative apparatus and afford to National Grid
to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph  37(1)  below) the
necessary facilities and rights—

36.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

36.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

36.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such consents, facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in the land in which the alternative
apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must,
on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the
necessary consents, facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative
apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation must not extend to
the requirement for National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to
this end unless it elects to so do.

36.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

36.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the prior grant to National
Grid of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph
(2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into
operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of
this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

37

37.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

37.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
National Grid under sub-paragraph  (1)  above in respect of any alternative
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and
rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to National Grid
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject the matter will be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph  44  (arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator
may make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

38

38.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

38.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve
embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted
to National Grid under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include a method statement and
describe—

38.2.a

the exact position of the works;

38.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

38.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

38.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

38.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

38.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

38.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

38.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2) , include a method statement describing—

38.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

38.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

38.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

38.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

38.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

38.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

38.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

38.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of at least 26 tonnes in weight.

38.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or
(3)  apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so
submitted.

38.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph  (4) —

38.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8) ; and

38.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

38.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

38.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)  must be executed in
accordance with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  or as relevant
sub-paragraph  (6) , as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement
between the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)
or  (8)  by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

38.8

Where under sub-paragraph  (6)  National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any authorised development (or any relevant part thereof) for which
protective works are required and National Grid must give notice of its
requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of submission of a plan
pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

38.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  30  to  32  and  35  to  37  apply as if the removal
of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2) .

38.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

38.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where
it needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that
case it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable
and a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs  (6) ,  (7)  and
(8)  insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and comply with
sub-paragraph  (12)  at all times .

38.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for development near
overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from
Overhead Lines”.

###### Expenses

39

39.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Grid on demand all charges, costs and expenses
reasonably anticipated within the following three months or reasonably and
properly incurred by National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised development as are referred to
in this Part of this Schedule including without limitation—

39.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

39.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  36(3) ; or

39.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

39.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

39.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

39.1.d

the approval of plans;

39.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

39.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

39.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

39.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

39.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

39.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph  44  to be necessary, then, if such
placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of this
Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed
had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing
depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph
would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

39.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

39.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

39.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

39.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

39.6

Where anticipated charges, costs or expenses have been paid by the undertaker
pursuant to sub-paragraph  (1) , if the actual charges, costs or expenses
incurred by National Grid are less than the amount already paid by the
undertaker, National Grid will repay the difference to the undertaker as soon
as reasonably practicable.

###### Indemnity

40

40.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
it) in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised development) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

40.1.a

bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National
Grid in making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

40.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid and including Network
Code Claims, other than arising from any default of National Grid.

40.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid as a consequence of the
authorised development or under its supervision will not (unless sub-paragraph
(3)  applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this sub-paragraph  (1)  unless National Grid fails to carry out and execute
the works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman
like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the approved plan.

40.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

40.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, employees, servants,
contractors or agents; and

40.3.b

any part of the authorised development and/or any other works authorised by
this Part of this Schedule carried out by National Grid as an assignee,
transferee or lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of this Order pursuant
to section 156 of the Planning Act 2008 or article  33  (consent to transfer
the benefit of the Order) subject to the proviso that once such works become
apparatus (“new apparatus”), any authorised development yet to be executed and
not falling within this sub-paragraph will be subject to the full terms of
this Part of this Schedule including this paragraph  40 .

40.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of
the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of
any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the
claim or demand.

40.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

###### Enactments and agreements

41

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between National Grid and the undertaker,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule will affect the provisions of any
enactment or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and
National Grid in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

42

42.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal
of apparatus under paragraph  36(2)  or National Grid makes requirements for
the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  38 , the undertaker
must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

42.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever National Grid’s consent, agreement or
approval is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by the undertaker, it must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

43

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  35(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

44

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs  36(2) ,  36(4) ,
37(1) ,  38  and  39  any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker
and National Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  39  (arbitration).

###### Notices

45

The plans submitted to National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to this Part
must be sent to National Grid Plant Protection at
plantprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

###### Agreement of 18th January 2023

46

For the protection of National Grid and any associated undertaking of National
Grid which holds property for operational purposes, the undertaker and
National Grid have entered into an agreement dated 18 January 2023 containing
provisions for the protection and benefit of National Grid in relation to the
exercise operation and use of the authorised development by the undertaker.
These provisions shall have effect unless otherwise varied or amended in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

47

47.1

The following provisions apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

47.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ Agency ” means the Environment Agency; “ construction ” includes execution,
placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and excavation and
“construct” and “constructed” is construed accordingly; “ drainage work ”
means any main river and includes any land which provides or is expected to
provide flood storage capacity for any main river and any bank, wall,
embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for land
drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring; “ fishery ” means any waters
containing fish and fish in, or migrating to or from, such waters and the
spawn, spawning ground, habitat or food of such fish; “main river” has the
same meaning given in section 113 of the Water Resources Act 1991; “ plans ”
includes sections, drawings, specifications, calculations and method
statements; “ remote defence ” means any berm, wall or embankment that is
constructed for the purposes of preventing or alleviating flooding from, or in
connection with, any main river; “ specified work ” means so much of any work
or operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under, over or within; 8
metres of the base of a remote defence which is likely to— endanger the
stability of, cause damage or reduce the effectiveness of that remote defence,
or interfere with the Agency’s access to or along that remote defence; 8
metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to— affect any drainage work
or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from any drainage
work; affect the flow, purity or quality of water in any watercourse or other
surface waters; cause obstruction to the free passage of fish or damage to any
fishery; affect the conservation, distribution or use of water resources; or
affect the conservation value of the main river and habitats in its immediate
vicinity;

or which involves:

47.c

an activity that includes dredging, raising or taking of any sand, silt,
ballast, clay, gravel or other materials from or off the bed or banks of a
drainage work (or causing such materials to be dredged, raised or taken),
including hydrodynamic dredging or desilting; and

47.d

any quarrying or excavation within 16 metres of a drainage work which is
likely to cause damage to or endanger the stability of the banks or structure
of that drainage work;

“ watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts,
dykes, sluices, basins, sewers and passages through which water flows except a
public sewer.

###### Submission and approval of plans

48

48.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the Agency plans of the specified work and such further particulars
available to it as the Agency may within 28 days of the receipt of the plans
reasonably request.

48.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the Agency, or determined under
paragraph  58 .

48.3

Any approval of the Agency required under this paragraph—

48.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

48.3.b

is deemed to have been refused if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans or receipt of further particulars if
such particulars have been requested by the Agency for approval; and

48.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the Agency may have
for the protection of any drainage work or the fishery or for the protection
of water resources, or for the prevention of flooding or pollution or for
nature conservation or in the discharge of its environmental duties.

48.4

The Agency must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the submission of
any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph
(3)(b) .

48.5

In the case of a refusal, if requested to do so the Agency must provide
reasons for the grounds of that refusal.

###### Construction of protective works

49

Without limiting paragraph  48 , the requirements which the Agency may have
under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker, at its own
expense, to construct such protective works, whether temporary or permanent,
before or during the construction of the specified works (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

49.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

49.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

###### Timing of works and service of notices

50

50.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , any specified work, and all protective works
required by the Agency under paragraph  49 , must be constructed—

50.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved under this
Part of this Schedule; and

50.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency,

and the Agency is entitled by its officer to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

50.2

The undertaker must give to the Agency not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and
notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is completed.

50.3

If the Agency reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct all or part
of the protective works so that they are in place prior to the construction of
any specified work to which the protective works relate.

###### Works not in accordance with this Schedule

51

51.1

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the Agency
is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this Part
of this Schedule, the Agency may by notice in writing require the undertaker
at the undertaker’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part
of this Schedule or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in writing
consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove,
alter or pull down the work and, where removal is required, to restore the
site to its former condition to such extent and within such limits as the
Agency reasonably requires.

51.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  and paragraph  56 , if, within a reasonable
period, being not less than 28 days beginning with the date when a notice
under sub-paragraph  (1)  is served upon the undertaker, the undertaker has
failed to begin taking steps to comply with the requirements of the notice and
has not subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the Agency may execute the works specified in the notice and
any reasonable expenditure incurred by the Agency in so doing is recoverable
from the undertaker.

51.3

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph  (1)  is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the Agency must not, except in the case of an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph  (2)  until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph  58 .

###### Maintenance of works

52

52.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (6)  the undertaker must from the commencement of
the construction of the specified works maintain in good repair and condition
and free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the
limits of deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or
in connection with the specified works, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

52.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, the Agency may by
notice in writing require the undertaker to repair and restore the work, or
any part of such work, or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to
remove the work and restore the site to its former condition, to such extent
and within such limits as the Agency reasonably requires.

52.3

Subject to sub-paragraph  (5)  and paragraph  56 , if, within a reasonable
period, being not less than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice
in respect of any drainage work is served under sub-paragraph  (2)  on the
undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may do what is
necessary for such compliance and any reasonable expenditure incurred by the
Agency in so doing is recoverable from the undertaker.

52.4

If there is any failure by the undertaker to obtain consent or comply with
conditions imposed by the Agency in accordance with these protective
provisions the Agency may serve written notice requiring the undertaker to
cease all or part of the specified works and the undertaker must cease the
specified works or part thereof until it has obtained the consent or complied
with the condition unless the cessation of the specified works or part thereof
would cause greater damage than compliance with the written notice.

52.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph  (2) , the Agency must not, except in the
case of an emergency, exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph  (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph  58
.

52.6

This paragraph does not apply to—

52.6.a

drainage works which are vested in the Agency, or which the Agency or another
person is liable to maintain and is not proscribed by the powers of the Order
from doing so; and

52.6.b

any obstruction of a drainage work expressly authorised in the approval of
specified works plans and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part provided that any obstruction is removed as soon as reasonably
practicable.

###### Remediating impaired drainage work

53

Subject to paragraph  56 , if by reason of the construction of any specified
work or of the failure of any such work, the efficiency of any drainage work
for flood defence purposes is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise
damaged, such impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Agency and if the undertaker fails to do so,
the Agency may make good the impairment or damage and recover any expenditure
incurred by the Agency in so doing from the undertaker.

###### Agency access

54

If by reason of construction of the specified work the Agency’s access to
flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access that will allow the Agency to maintain the flood defence or use the
equipment no less effectively than was possible before the obstruction within
24 hours of the undertaker becoming aware of such obstruction.

###### Free passage of fish

55

55.1

The undertaker must take all such measures as may be reasonably practicable to
prevent any interruption of the free passage of fish in the fishery during the
construction of any specified work.

55.2

If by reason of—

55.2.a

the construction of any specified work; or

55.2.b

the failure of any such work,

damage to the fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such
damage may be caused, the Agency may serve notice on the undertaker requiring
it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicable to make good the
damage, or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such damage.

55.3

Subject to paragraph  56 , if within such time as may be reasonably
practicable for that purpose after the receipt of written notice from the
Agency of any damage or expected damage to a fishery, the undertaker fails to
take such steps as are described in sub-paragraph  (2) , the Agency may take
those steps and any expenditure incurred by the Agency in so doing is
recoverable from the undertaker.

55.4

Subject to paragraph  56 , in any case where immediate action by the Agency is
reasonably required in order to secure that the risk of damage to the fishery
is avoided or reduced, the Agency may take such steps as are reasonable for
the purpose, and may recover from the undertaker any expenditure incurred in
so doing provided that notice specifying those steps is served on the
undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency has taken, or
commenced to take, the steps specified in the notice.

###### Indemnity

56

The undertaker indemnifies the Agency in respect of all costs, charges and
expenses which the Agency may incur—

56.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

56.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the Agency under this Part of this Schedule; and

56.c

in the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the Agency which are reasonably
required in connection with the construction of the specified works.

57

57.1

The undertaker is responsible for and indemnifies the Agency against all costs
and losses not otherwise provided for in this Schedule which may be reasonably
incurred or suffered by the Agency by reason of—

57.1.a

the construction, operation or maintenance of any specified works comprised
within the authorised development or the failure of any such works comprised
within them; or

57.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction, operation or maintenance of the
authorised development or dealing with any failure of the authorised
development.

57.2

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph  (1) —

“ costs ” includes— expenses and charges; staff costs and overheads; legal
costs; “ losses ” includes physical damage.

57.3

The undertaker indemnifies the Agency against all liabilities, claims and
demands arising out of or in connection with the authorised development or
otherwise out of the matters referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  and  (1)(b)
.

57.4

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph  (3) —

“claims” and “demands” include as applicable— costs (within the meaning of
sub-paragraph  (2) ) incurred in connection with any claim or demand; any
interest element of sums claimed or demanded; “ liabilities ” includes—
contractual liabilities; tortious liabilities (including liabilities for
negligence or nuisance); liabilities to pay statutory compensation or for
breach of statutory duty; liabilities to pay statutory penalties imposed on
the basis of strict liability (but does not include liabilities to pay other
statutory penalties).

57.5

The Agency must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and must not settle or compromise a claim without the agreement of the
undertaker and that agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

57.6

The Agency must, at all times take reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate
any such claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss.

57.7

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved by the Agency, or to its satisfaction, or in
accordance with any directions or award of an arbitrator, must not relieve the
undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule.

57.8

Nothing in this paragraph imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect
to any costs, charges, expenses, damages, claims, demands or losses to the
extent that they are attributable to the neglect or default of the Agency, its
officers, servants, contractors or agents.

###### Disputes

58

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Agency under this Part of
this Schedule must, if the parties agree, be determined by arbitration under
article  39  (arbitration), but failing agreement be determined by the
Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs or its successor
and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero or its successor
acting jointly on a reference to them by the undertaker or the Agency, after
notice in writing by one to the other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF DRAINAGE AUTHORITIES

59

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect for the protection of
the drainage authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and the drainage authority.

60

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ authorised development ” has the same meaning as in article  2(1)
(interpretation) of this Order and (unless otherwise specified) for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the operation and maintenance
of the authorised development and the construction of any works authorised by
this Part of this Schedule;           “ construction ” includes execution,
placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal, and “ construct ” and “
constructed ” must be construed accordingly;           “ drainage authority ”
means in relation to an ordinary watercourse—         the drainage board
concerned within the meaning of section 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc.
in watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act 1991;           in the case of any
area for which there is no such drainage board, the lead local flood authority
within the meaning of section 6 (other definitions) of the Flood and Water
Management Act 2010; or           where such drainage board or lead local
flood authority is not subject to the protective provisions in Parts 1 to 5
and 7 to 8 of this Schedule;                 “ drainage work ” means any
ordinary watercourse and includes any bank, wall, embankment or other
structure, or any appliance constructed for land drainage or flood defence
which is the responsibility of the drainage authority;           “ ordinary
watercourse ” has the meaning given by section 72 (interpretation) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991;           “ plans ” includes sections, drawings,
specifications and method statements;           “ specified work ” means so
much of the authorised development as is in, on, under, over or within 8
metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to affect the flow of water
in any watercourse.

61

61.1

Before commencing construction of a specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the drainage authority plans of the specified work and such further
particulars available to it as the drainage authority may reasonably require
within 14 days of the submission of the plans.

61.2

A specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such plans
as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority or determined under
paragraph  67 .

61.3

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

61.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

61.3.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 28 days
of the submission of the plans for approval, or submission of further
particulars (where required by the drainage authority under sub-paragraph  (1)
) whichever is the later; and

61.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the drainage authority
may make for the protection of any drainage work taking into account the terms
of this Order.

61.4

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

62

Without limiting the scope of paragraph  61 , the requirements which the
drainage authority may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring
the undertaker at its own expense to construct such protective works, whether
temporary or permanent, during the construction of the specified work
(including the provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new
works and the strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or
embankments) as are reasonably necessary taking account of the terms of this
Order—

62.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage by reason of any specified work;
or

62.b

to secure that the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence and land
drainage purposes is not impaired, and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased beyond the level of flood risk that was assessed in the
environmental statement, by reason of any specified work.

63

63.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph  62 , must be constructed—

63.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part of this Schedule; and

63.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority,

and an officer of the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

63.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority—

63.2.a

not less than 14 days’ notice in writing of its intention to commence
construction of any specified work; and

63.2.b

notice in writing of its completion not later than seven days after the date
on which it is brought into use.

64

If by reason of the construction of a specified work or of the failure of any
a specified work the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence
purposes or land drainage is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise
damaged, the impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker as soon
as reasonably practicable to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage
authority and, if the undertaker fails to do so, the drainage authority may
make good the impairment or damage and recover from the undertaker the expense
reasonably incurred by it in doing so.

65

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs, charges and
expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur—

65.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

65.b

in inspecting the construction of the specified work or any protective works
required by the drainage authority under this Part of this Schedule; and

65.c

in carrying out any surveys or tests by the drainage authority which are
reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified work.

66

66.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for liabilities, costs and
losses which may be reasonably incurred or suffered by reason of—

66.1.a

the construction of any specified works comprised within the authorised
development; or

66.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others while engaged upon the construction of the authorised development.

66.2

The drainage authority must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand.

66.3

The undertaker may at its own expense conduct all negotiations for the
settlement of the same and any litigation that may arise therefrom.

66.4

The drainage authority must not compromise or settle any such claim or make
any admission which might be prejudicial to the claim without the agreement of
the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

66.5

The drainage authority will, having regard to its statutory functions, at all
times take reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate any such claims, demands,
proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss.

66.6

The drainage authority will, at the request of the undertaker and having
regard to its statutory functions, afford all reasonable assistance for the
purpose of contesting any such claim or action, and is entitled to be repaid
its reasonable expenses reasonably incurred in so doing.

66.7

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved or deemed to be approved by the drainage
authority, or to its satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or
award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the undertaker from any liability
under this Part of this Schedule.

66.8

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of the drainage authority or the breach of a statutory duty
of the drainage authority, its officers, servants, contractors or agents.

67

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule, if the parties agree, is to be determined by
arbitration under article  39  (arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF RAILWAY INTERESTS

68

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail and, in the case of
paragraph  82  of this Part of this Schedule any other person on whom rights
or obligations are conferred by that paragraph.

69

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ asset protection agreement ” means an agreement to regulate the
construction and maintenance of the specified work in a form prescribed from
time to time by Network Rail;           “ construction ” includes execution,
placing, alteration and reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have
corresponding meanings;           “ the engineer ” means an engineer appointed
by Network Rail for the purposes of this Order;           “ network licence ”
means the network licence, as the same is amended from time to time, granted
to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited by the Secretary of State in exercise
of their powers under section 8 (licences) of the Railways Act 1993;
“ Network Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (company number
02904587, whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt Street, London, NW1 2DN)
and any associated company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited which holds
property for railway purposes, and for the purpose of this definition “
associated company ” means any company which is (within the meaning of section
1159 of the Companies Act 2006) the holding company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited or
another subsidiary of the holding company of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited and any successor to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited’s railway
undertaking;           “ plans ” includes sections, designs, design data,
software, drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations, descriptions
(including descriptions of methods of construction), staging proposals,
programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any proposed
occupation of railway property;           “ railway operational procedures ”
means procedures specified under any access agreement (as defined in the
Railways Act 1993) or station lease;           “ railway property ” means any
railway belonging to Network Rail and—         any station, land, works,
apparatus and equipment belonging to Network Rail or connected with any such
railway; and           any easement or other property interest held or used by
Network Rail or a tenant or licensee of Network Rail for the purposes of such
railway or works, apparatus or equipment;                 “ regulatory
consents ” means any consent or approval required under:         the Railways
Act 1993;           the network licence; and/or           any other relevant
statutory or regulatory provisions;         by either the Office of Rail and
Road or the Secretary of State for Transport or any other competent body
including change procedures and any other consents, approvals of any access or
beneficiary that may be required in relation to the authorised development;
“ specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised development as is
situated upon, across, under, over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way
adversely affect, railway property and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes
the maintenance of such works under the powers conferred by article  5  (power
to maintain authorised development) in respect of such works.

70

70.1

Where under this Part of this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its
consent or approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

70.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

70.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

70.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development pursuant to this Order.

71

71.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by—

71.1.a

article  3  (development consent etc. granted by this Order);

71.1.b

article  5  (power to maintain authorised development);

71.1.c

article  15  (discharge of water);

71.1.d

article  17  (authority to survey and investigate the land);

71.1.e

article  18  (compulsory acquisition of land);

71.1.f

article  20  (compulsory acquisition of rights);

71.1.g

article  23  acquisition of subsoil only);

71.1.h

article  24  (power to override easements and other rights);

71.1.i

article  27  (temporary use of land for constructing the authorised
development);

71.1.j

article  28  (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised
development);

71.1.k

article  29  (statutory undertakers);

71.1.l

article  36  (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows);

71.1.m

article  37  (trees subject to tree preservation orders);

71.1.n

the powers conferred by section 11(3) (power of entry) of the 1965 Act;

71.1.o

the powers conferred by section 203 (power to override easements and rights)
of the Housing and Planning Act 2016;

71.1.p

the powers conferred by section 172 (right to enter and survey land) of the
Housing and Planning Act 2016;

71.1.q

any powers under in respect of the temporary possession of land under the
Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017;

in respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with
the consent of Network Rail.

71.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

71.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272
of the 1990 Act, article  29  (statutory undertakers) , article  24  (power to
override easements and other rights) or article  21  (private rights), in
relation to any right of access of Network Rail to railway property, but such
right of access may be diverted with the consent of Network Rail.

71.4

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or
acquire new rights over, or seek to impose any restrictive covenants over, any
railway property, or extinguish any existing rights of Network Rail in respect
of any third party property, except with the consent of Network Rail.

71.5

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order do anything which would
result in railway property being incapable of being used or maintained or
which would affect the safe running of trains on the railway.

71.6

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions but it must never be unreasonable to withhold consent
for reasons of operational or railway safety (such matters to be in Network
Rail’s absolute discretion).

71.7

The undertaker must enter into an asset protection agreement prior to the
carrying out of any specified work.

72

72.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration under article  39
(arbitration).

72.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph  (1)  must not be
unreasonably withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning
with the date on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the
engineer has not intimated their disapproval of those plans and the grounds of
such disapproval the undertaker may serve upon the engineer written notice
requiring the engineer to intimate approval or disapproval within a further
period of 28 days beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives
written notice from the undertaker. If by the expiry of the further 28 days
the engineer has not intimated approval or disapproval, the engineer is deemed
to have approved the plans as submitted.

72.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph  (2) , Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
without unnecessary delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of
the undertaker in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the undertaker.

72.4

When signifying their approval of the plans the engineer may specify any
protective works (whether temporary or permanent) which in the engineer’s
reasonable opinion should be carried out before the commencement of the
construction of a specified work to ensure the safety or stability of railway
property or the continuation of safe and efficient operation of the railways
of Network Rail or the services of operators using the same (including any
relocation de-commissioning and removal of works, apparatus and equipment
necessitated by a specified work and the comfort and safety of passengers who
may be affected by the specified works), and such protective works as may be
reasonably necessary for those purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or
by the undertaker, if Network Rail so desires, and such protective works must
be carried out at the expense of the undertaker in either case without
unnecessary delay and the undertaker must not commence the construction of the
specified works until the engineer has notified the undertaker that the
protective works have been completed to their reasonable satisfaction.

73

73.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph  71(4)  must, when commenced, be constructed—

73.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph  71 ;

73.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

73.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

73.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

73.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction
shall be caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence of the construction
of a specified work, the undertaker must, notwithstanding any such approval,
make good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to
which Network Rail may be put and compensation for any loss which it may
sustain by reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

73.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule imposes any liability on the undertaker
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of Network Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any
liability on Network Rail with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss
attributable to the negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors
or agents.

74

The undertaker must—

74.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

74.b

supply the engineer with all such information as they may reasonably require
with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

75

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part of this Schedule during their construction and must supply the undertaker
with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works
or the method of constructing them.

76

76.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction or completion of a
specified work in order to ensure the safety of railway property or the
continued safe operation of the railway of Network Rail, such alterations and
additions may be carried out by Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the
undertaker 56 days’ notice (or in the event of an emergency or safety critical
issue such notice as is reasonable in the circumstances) of its intention to
carry out such alterations or additions (which must be specified in the
notice), the undertaker must pay to Network Rail the reasonable cost of those
alterations or additions including, in respect of any such alterations and
additions as are to be permanent, a capitalised sum representing the increase
of the costs which may be expected to be reasonably incurred by Network Rail
in maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing any such alterations or
additions.

76.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction
of that part of the specified work and the undertaker must, notwithstanding
any such approval of a specified work under paragraph  72(3) , pay to Network
Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation
for any loss which it may suffer by reason of the execution by Network Rail of
that specified work.

76.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph  77(a)  provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

76.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

77

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

77.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph  72(3)  or in constructing any protective works under
the provisions of paragraph  72(4)  including, in respect of any permanent
protective works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and
renewing those works;

77.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work;

77.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, watch-persons and other persons whom it shall be reasonably
necessary to appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway
property and for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable,
interference, obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or
failure of a specified work;

77.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or from the substitution or diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

77.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

78

78.1

In this paragraph—

      “ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , electromagnetic
interference with Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the
authorised development where such interference is of a level which adversely
affects the safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and           “
Network Rail’s apparatus ” means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or
equipment (whether or not modified or installed as part of the authorised
development) which are owned or used by Network Rail for the purpose of
transmitting or receiving electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic,
telephonic, electric, electronic or other like means of signalling or other
communications.

78.2

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph  72(1)  for the relevant part of the
authorised development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been
given notice in writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to
make such change).

78.3

Subject to sub-paragraph  (5) , the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take all measures necessary to
prevent EMI and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

78.4

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph  (3) —

78.4.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before
and after formal submission of plans under paragraph  72(1)  in order to
identify all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate
them;

78.4.b

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph  (a) ; and

78.4.c

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a) .

78.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph  72(1)  has effect subject to the sub-paragraph.

78.6

Prior to the commencement of operation of the authorised development the
undertaker must test the use of the authorised development in a manner that
must first have been agreed with Network Rail and if, notwithstanding any
measures adopted pursuant to sub-paragraph  (3) , the testing of the
authorised development causes EMI then the undertaker must immediately upon
receipt of notification by Network Rail of such EMI either in writing or
communicated orally (such oral communication to be confirmed in writing as
soon as reasonably practicable after it has been issued) forthwith cease to
use (or procure the cessation of use of) the undertaker’s apparatus causing
such EMI until all measures necessary have been taken to remedy such EMI by
way of modification to the source of such EMI or (in the circumstances, and
subject to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph  (5) ) to Network Rail’s
apparatus.

78.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

78.7.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

78.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

78.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI; and

78.7.d

the undertaker must not allow the use or operation of the authorised
development in a manner that has caused or will cause EMI until measures have
been taken in accordance with this paragraph to prevent EMI occurring.

78.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs  (5)  or  (6) —

78.8.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

78.8.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with paragraph  73 .

78.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
82(1)  applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses
suffered by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this
paragraph (including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of
proposals, approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and
facilitating access to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI
to which sub-paragraph  (6)  applies.

78.10

For the purpose of paragraph  77(a)  any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph are deemed to be protective works referred to
in that paragraph.

78.11

In relation to any dispute arising under this paragraph the reference in
article  39  (arbitration) to the Institution of Civil Engineers must be read
as a reference to the Institution of Engineering and Technology.

79

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as not
adversely to affect railway property.

80

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

81

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be repaid by
the undertaker to Network Rail.

82

82.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule which
may be occasioned to or reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

82.1.a

by reason of the construction, maintenance or operation of a specified work or
the failure thereof; or

82.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work;

82.1.c

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or any person in its employ
or of its contractors or others whilst accessing to or egressing from the
authorised development;

82.1.d

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to,
railway property or any such interference or obstruction or delay to the
operation of the railway as a result of access to or egress from the
authorised development by the undertaker or any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others;

82.1.e

in respect of costs incurred by Network Rail in complying with any railway
operational procedures or obtaining any regulatory consents which procedures
are required to be followed or consents obtained to facilitate the carrying
out or operation of the authorised development;

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or any such failure, act or omission: and the fact that any act
or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of the undertaker or in
accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in accordance with any
requirement of the engineer or under the engineer’s supervision must not (if
it was done without negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any person in
its employ or of its contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker from any
liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph.

82.2

Network Rail must—

82.2.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such claims or demands

82.2.b

not make any settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand without the
prior consent of the undertaker; and

82.2.c

take such steps as are within its control and are reasonable in the
circumstances to mitigate any liabilities relating to such claims or demands.

82.3

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph  (1)  must if relevant
include a sum equivalent to the relevant costs.

82.4

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph  (3)  which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

82.5

The obligation under sub-paragraph  (3)  to pay Network Rail the relevant
costs is in the event of default enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub-paragraph  (4) .

82.6

In this paragraph—

      “ the relevant costs ” means the costs, losses and expenses (including
loss of revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence
of any specified work including but not limited to any restriction of the use
of Network Rail’s railway network as a result of the construction, maintenance
or failure of a specified work or any such act or omission as mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (1) ; and           “ train operator ” means any person who is
authorised to act as the operator of a train by a licence under section 8 of
the Railways Act 1993.

83

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Part of this Schedule (including the amount of
the relevant costs mentioned in paragraph  82 ) and with such information as
may reasonably enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any such
estimate or claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part of this Schedule
(including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

84

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part of this
Schedule there must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed
that is attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by
Network Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was
taken or entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by
the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or increasing the sums so
payable.

85

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

85.a

any railway property shown on the works and land plans and described in the
book of reference;

85.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

85.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

86

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I of the Railways Act
1993.

87

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 33 (consent to transfer benefit of Order) of this Order and any
such notice must be given no later than 28 days before any such application is
made and must describe or give (as appropriate)—

87.a

the nature of the application to be made;

87.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

87.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

88

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans
submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with
article 38 (certification of plans and documents etc.) are certified by the
Secretary of State, provide a set of those plans to Network Rail in a format
specified by Network Rail.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ESSEX COUNTY COUNCIL

89

The provisions in this Part of this Schedule have effect for the protection of
Essex County Council unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker
and Essex County Council.

90

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ authorised development ” has the same meaning as in article  2(1)
(interpretation) of this Order and (unless otherwise specified) for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the operation and maintenance
of the authorised development and the construction of any works authorised by
this Part of this Schedule;           “ construction ” includes execution,
placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal, and “ construct ” and “
constructed ” must be construed accordingly;           “ drainage authority ”
means Essex County Council;           “ drainage work ” means works to any
ordinary watercourse and includes any bank, wall, embankment or other
structure, or any appliance constructed for land drainage or flood defence for
which the drainage authority is the consenting authority;           “ ordinary
watercourse ” has the meaning given by section 72 (interpretation) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991;           “ plans ” includes sections, drawings,
specifications and method statements;           “ specified work ” means so
much of the authorised development as is in, on, under, over or within 8
metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to affect the flow of water
in any watercourse.

91

91.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work in relation to an ordinary
watercourse, the undertaker must submit to the drainage authority plans of the
work.

91.2

On receipt of plans under  (1)  the drainage authority may within 28 days of
the first submission of the plans request such further particulars as the
drainage authority may reasonably require.

91.3

Any such specified work in relation to an ordinary watercourse must not be
constructed except in accordance with such plans as may be approved in writing
by the drainage authority, and in compliance with sub-paragraph  (6)  below.

91.4

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

91.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

91.4.b

is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 8
weeks of the submission of the plans for approval or submission of further
particulars (where required by the drainage authority under sub-paragraph  (2)
, whichever is the later); and

91.4.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements or conditions as the
drainage authority may make for the protection of any key watercourse or for
the prevention of flooding.

91.5

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

91.6

In order to assist the undertaker when submitting plans under sub-paragraph
(1)  above it will be necessary to ensure that any suggested pipework proposed
is in compliance with the ECC Culverting Policy, whether that be a temporary
structure or a permanent structure.

92

Without limiting the scope of paragraph  91 , the requirements which the
drainage authority may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring
the undertaker at its own expense to construct such protective works, whether
temporary or permanent, during the construction of the specified work
(including the provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new
works and the strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or
embankments) as are reasonably necessary taking account of the terms of this
Order—

92.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage by reason of any specified work;
or

92.b

to secure that the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence and land
drainage purposes is not impaired, and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased beyond the level of flood risk that was assessed in the
environmental statement, by reason of any specified work.

93

93.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph  92 , must be constructed—

93.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part of this Schedule; and

93.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority,

and an officer of the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

93.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority—

93.2.a

not less than 14 days’ notice in writing of its intention to commence
construction of any specified work; and

93.2.b

notice in writing of its completion not later than seven days after the date
on which it is brought into use.

94

If by reason of the construction of a specified work or of the failure of any
a specified work the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence
purposes or land drainage is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise
damaged, the impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker as soon
as reasonably practicable to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage
authority and, if the undertaker fails to do so, the drainage authority may
make good the impairment or damage and recover from the undertaker the expense
reasonably incurred by it in doing so.

95

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs, charges and
expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur—

95.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

95.b

in inspecting the construction of the specified work or any protective works
required by the drainage authority under this Part of this Schedule; and

95.c

in carrying out any surveys or tests by the drainage authority which are
reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified work.

96

96.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for liabilities, costs and
losses which may be reasonably incurred or suffered by reason of—

96.1.a

the construction of any specified works comprised within the authorised
development; or

96.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others while engaged upon the construction of the authorised development.

96.2

The drainage authority must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand.

96.3

The undertaker may at its own expense conduct all negotiations for the
settlement of the same and any litigation that may arise therefrom.

96.4

The drainage authority must not compromise or settle any such claim or make
any admission which might be prejudicial to the claim without the agreement of
the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

96.5

The drainage authority will, having regard to its statutory powers, at all
times take reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate any such claims, demands,
proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss.

96.6

The drainage authority will, at the request of the undertaker and having
regard to its statutory powers, afford all reasonable assistance for the
purpose of contesting any such claim or action, and is entitled to be repaid
its reasonable expenses reasonably incurred in so doing.

96.7

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved or deemed to be approved by the drainage
authority, or to its satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or
award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the undertaker from any liability
under this Part of this Schedule.

96.8

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of the drainage authority or the breach of a statutory duty
of the drainage authority, its officers, servants, contractors or agents.

97

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule, if the parties agree, is to be determined by
arbitration under article 39 (arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ESSEX AND SUFFOLK WATER

98

For the protection of Essex and Suffolk Water, the following provisions must,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Essex and
Suffolk Water, have effect.

99

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable ESW
to fulfil its statutory functions in not less efficient a manner than
previously; “ apparatus ” means the following items belonging to or maintained
by ESW within the Order limits-

mains, pipes, wells, boreholes, tanks, service reservoirs, pumping stations or
other apparatus, structures, tunnels, shafts or treatment works or accessories
(as defined in section 219(1) of the Water Industry Act 1991) belonging to or
maintained or used by ESW for the purposes of water supply; and any water
mains, or service pipes which are the subject of a notice of intention to
adopt under section 51A of the Water Industry Act 1991;

“ ESW ” means Northumbrian Water Limited, t/a Essex and Suffolk Water, company
number 02366703, whose registered office is at Northumbria House, Abbey Road,
Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FJ; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “
plan ” includes sections, drawings, specifications and method statements and
drawings submitted for approval must include a plan to the scale of 1:500
based on the ordnance survey to locate the work in question, and plans and
sections to a scale of between 1:200 to 1:25 to give details of the work in
question; and “ specified work ” means so much of the authorised development
as is in, on, under, over or within the standard protection strips; and “ the
standard protection strips ” means strips of land falling the following
distances to either side of the medial line of any relevant pipe or apparatus—
3 metres where the internal diameter of the pipe is less than 300 millimetres;
4.5 metres where the internal diameter of the pipe is over 300 and up to and
including 600 millimetres; and 6 metres where the internal diameter of the
pipe exceeds 600 millimetres unless otherwise agreed.

###### Retained apparatus

100

100.1

Before commencing construction of a specified work, the undertaker must submit
to ESW plans of the specified work and such further particulars available to
it as ESW may reasonably require within 28 days of the submission of the
plans.

100.2

A specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such plans
as may be approved in writing by ESW or determined under paragraph  110 .

100.3

Any approval of ESW required under this paragraph—

100.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

100.3.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 42 days
of the submission of the plans for approval, or submission of further
particulars (where required by ESW under sub-paragraph  (1)  whichever is the
later; and

100.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as ESW may make for the
protection of its apparatus taking into account the terms of this Order.

100.4

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

101

Without limiting the scope of paragraph  100 , the requirements which ESW may
make under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker at its
own expense to construct such protective works, whether temporary or
permanent, during the construction of the specified work as are reasonably
necessary taking account of the terms of this Order to safeguard any apparatus
against damage by reason of any specified work.

102

102.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , any specified work, and all protective works
required by ESW under paragraph  101 , must be constructed—

102.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part of this Schedule; and

102.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of ESW,

and an officer of ESW is entitled to watch and inspect the construction of
such works.

102.2

The undertaker must give to ESW—

102.2.a

not less than 28 days’ notice in writing of its intention to commence
construction of any specified work; and

102.2.b

notice in writing of its completion not later than seven days after the date
on which it is brought into use.

103

If by reason of the construction of a specified work or of the failure of any
a specified work any apparatus is damaged, the damage must be made good by the
undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable to the reasonable satisfaction of
ESW and, if the undertaker fails to do so, ESW may make good the damage and
recover from the undertaker the expense reasonably incurred by it in doing so.

104

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs, charges and
expenses which ESW may reasonably incur—

104.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

104.b

in inspecting the construction of the specified work or any protective works
required by ESW under this Part of this Schedule and

104.c

in carrying out any surveys or tests by ESW which are reasonably required in
connection with the construction of the specified work.

###### Removal of apparatus

105

105.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over
which access to any apparatus is enjoyed or requires that ESW’s apparatus is
relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule, and any right of ESW to maintain that apparatus in that land
and to gain access to it must not be extinguished, until alternative apparatus
has been constructed and is in operation, and access to it has been provided,
to the reasonable satisfaction of ESW in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)
to  (7) .

105.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to ESW
56 days written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order ESW reasonably
needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-
paragraph  (3) , afford to ESW the necessary facilities and rights for the
construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and
subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

105.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) , in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, ESW must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the
undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use reasonable endeavours to obtain
the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative
apparatus is to be constructed.

105.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between ESW and the undertaker both acting
reasonably with a view to securing the efficient implementation of the
necessary work, the avoidance of unnecessary delay and the continued
fulfilment by both parties of their service obligations, which in the case of
ESW shall be to a standard no less than that achieved prior to the removal of
the apparatus which the alternative apparatus replaces, or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 39 (arbitration).

105.5

ESW must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with article  39
(arbitration), and after the grant to ESW of any such facilities and rights as
are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary
delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative apparatus and
subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed
under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

105.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if the undertaker gives notice
in writing to ESW that it desires itself to execute any work, or part of any
work, in connection with the construction or removal of apparatus in any land
controlled by the undertaker, that work, instead of being executed by ESW,
may, subject to the written consent of ESW, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, and in accordance with ESW’s requirements and specifications be
executed by the undertaker without unnecessary delay under the
superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable satisfaction of ESW.

105.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (6)  authorises the undertaker to execute the
placing, installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection
of any apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the
apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

105.8

When alternative apparatus is to be or is being substituted for existing
apparatus, the undertaker shall, before taking or requiring any further step
in such substitution works, use all reasonable endeavours to comply with
Northumbrian Water’s reasonable requests for a reasonable period of time to
enable Northumbrian Water to:

105.8.a

Make network contingency arrangements; or

105.8.b

Bring such matters as it may consider reasonably necessary to the attention of
end users of the utility in question.

106

106.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to ESW facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and ESW or
in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 39
(arbitration).

106.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus the
arbitrator must:

106.2.a

Give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus which
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker: and

106.2.b

So far as it may be reasonable and practicable to do so in the circumstances
of the particular case, give effect to the terms and conditions if any,
applicable to the apparatus for which the alternative apparatus is to be
substituted and have regard to ESW’s statutory obligations.

106.3

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to ESW than the facilities and rights enjoyed by
it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions to
which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator must make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to ESW as appears
to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of
the particular case.

107

107.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to ESW the reasonable expenses incurred by it in, or in connection with,
the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the
construction of any new apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph 105(2)  ....

107.2

There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule, that value being calculated after removal.

107.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule—

107.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

107.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  39  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to ESW by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  is to be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

107.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

107.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus where such extension is required in
consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph
105(2) ; and

107.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

###### Costs

108

108.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (4) , if for any reason or in consequence
of the construction maintenance or failure of any of authorised development by
or on behalf of the undertaker or of any of the works referred to in this Part
of this Schedule or in consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or
any person employed or authorised by it) in the course of carrying out such
works, or by reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or
works, any damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair
of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of those works) or property of ESW, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or of any access to any apparatus, or in the supply of
any goods, or services, by ESW or the performance of ESW’s functions, or any
disruption to the normal operation of ESW’s apparatus resulting in an increase
in the costs incurred by ESW in performing it’s functions or in any loss,
damages or penalty or fines, or ESW becoming liable to pay any amount to any
third party, the undertaker must—

108.1.a

bear and pay within 30 days of demand the cost reasonably incurred by ESW in
making good any damage or restoring the supply or service;

108.1.b

make reasonable compensation to ESW for any other expenses, loss, damages,
penalty or costs incurred by ESW,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or disruption
or ESW becoming liable to pay any third party aforesaid.

108.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by ESW on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by ESW or in accordance with
any requirement of ESW or under its supervision does not, subject to sub-
paragraph (3), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
sub-paragraph (1).

108.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of ESW, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

108.4

ESW must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and
no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the
undertaker which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the
undertaker and which, if the undertaker withholds such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

###### Other

109

Any agreement or approval of ESW required under these provisions—

109.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

109.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 42 days
of the date of submission of a request for such agreement or approval, or, in
the case of a refusal, if it is not accompanied by a statement of the grounds
of refusal; and

109.c

any request for agreement or approval of ESW required under these provisions
must be sent to  companysecretary@nwl.co.uk . or such other address as ESW may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

110

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and ESW under this Part of this
Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 39
(arbitration) unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and
ESW.

111

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order,
previously unmapped mains or other apparatus are identified by the undertaker,
notification of the location of such assets will immediately be given to ESW
and afforded the same protection as other ESW assets.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF EAST OF ENGLAND AMBULANCE SERVICE TRUST

###### Application

112

For the protection of East of England Ambulance Service Trust as referred to
in this Part of this Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and East of England
Ambulance Service Trust.

###### Site familiarisation

113

113.1

The undertaker must, prior to the date of final commissioning, use reasonable
endeavours to facilitate a site familiarisation exercise in connection with
the authorised development for the East of England Ambulance Service Trust for
the purpose of mitigating the potential impacts or risks associated with the
authorised development.

113.2

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between East of England Ambulance
Service Trust and the undertaker, the undertaker must pay to East of England
Ambulance Service Trust the costs and expenses reasonably and properly
incurred by East of England Ambulance Service Trust in, or in connection with
its attendance at the site familiarisation exercise facilitated by the
undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Arbitration

114

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and East of England
Ambulance Service Trust under this Part of this Schedule must, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and East of England
Ambulance Service Trust, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article  39  (arbitration).

  PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

Article 42

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ requirement consultee ” means any body or authority named in a
requirement as a body to be consulted by the relevant planning authority in
discharging that requirement; and           “ start date ” means the date of
the notification given by the Secretary of State under paragraph  4(2)(b) .

##### Applications made under requirement

2

2.1

Where an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement the relevant planning
authority must give notice to the undertaker of its decision on the
application within a period of ten weeks beginning with the later of—

2.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
authority;

2.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph  3 ; or

2.1.c

such longer period that is agreed in writing by the undertaker and the
relevant planning authority.

2.2

Subject to paragraph  4 , in the event that the relevant planning authority
does not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph
(1) , the relevant planning authority is to be taken to have granted all parts
of the application (without any condition or qualification) at the end of that
period.

2.3

Any application made to the relevant planning authority pursuant to sub-
paragraph  (1)  must:

2.3.a

include a statement to confirm whether it is likely that the subject matter of
the application will give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects compared to those in the environmental statement and if
it will then it must be accompanied by information setting out what those
effects are; and

2.3.b

include confirmation that the application has been notified and provided to
the requirement consultees in accordance with sub-paragraph  (5) , if the
provision governing or requiring the application specifies that consultation
with a requirement consultee is required. Such confirmation to include contact
details for the requirement consultees.

2.4

Where an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this
Order and the relevant planning authority does not determine the application
within the period set out in sub-paragraph  (1)  and is accompanied by a
report pursuant to sub-paragraph  (3)(a)  which states that the subject matter
of such application is likely to give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects compared to those in the environmental
statement then the application is to be taken to have been refused by the
relevant planning authority at the end of that period.

2.5

At the same time as submitting an application to the relevant planning
authority for any consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement,
the undertaker must also give notice of such application, and provide a copy
of the application, to any requirement consultee, if the provision governing
or requiring the application specifies that consultation with a requirement
consultee is required. As part of the notification to any requirement
consultee, the undertaker must include a statement that refers to:

2.5.a

the timeframes in which the requirement consultee can request any further
information from the undertaker (via the relevant planning authority) as
prescribed in paragraph  3(6)(a)  and the consequences of the failure to meet
those timescales as prescribed in paragraph  3(6)(b) ; and

2.5.b

the timeframes in which the requirement consultee must give notice to the
relevant planning authority of its comments on the application as prescribed
in paragraph  3(6)(d)  and the consequences of the failure to meet those
timescales as prescribed in paragraph  3(6)(e) .

##### Further information and consultation

3

3.1

In relation to any application to which this Schedule applies, the relevant
planning authority may request such reasonable further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable it to consider the application.

3.2

In the event that the relevant planning authority considers such further
information to be necessary and the provision governing or requiring the
application does not specify that consultation with a requirement consultee is
required, the relevant planning authority must, within 10 working days of
receipt of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the
further information required.

3.3

If the provision governing or requiring the application specifies that
consultation with a requirement consultee is required, the relevant planning
authority must notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further
information the relevant planning authority considers necessary or that is
requested by the requirement consultee within 15 working days of receipt of
the application (or such other period as is agreed in writing between the
undertaker and the relevant planning authority).

3.4

In the event that the relevant planning authority does not give notification
as specified in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  it is deemed to have sufficient
information to consider the application and is not thereafter entitled to
request further information without the prior agreement of the undertaker.

3.5

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is to be treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating time periods in
paragraph  2  and paragraph  3 .

3.6

If the provision governing or requiring the application specifies that
consultation with a requirement consultee is required:

3.6.a

A requirement consultee is required to notify the relevant planning authority
in writing specifying any further information it considers necessary in order
to comment on the application within 10 working days of receipt of the
application pursuant to paragraph  2(5) ;

3.6.b

If a requirement consultee does not give notification as specified in sub-
paragraph  (a)  it is deemed to have sufficient information to comment on the
application and is not thereafter entitled to request further information
without the prior agreement of the undertaker and relevant planning authority;

3.6.c

At the same time as providing any further information to the relevant planning
authority pursuant to a request under paragraph  (2) , if the undertaker has
been notified of further information requested by a requirement consultee, the
undertaker must also give any further information to the requirement
consultee;

3.6.d

A requirement consultee is required to notify the relevant planning authority
in writing of any comments on the application within 15 working days of
receipt of the application from the undertaker pursuant to paragraph  2(5) ,
or the receipt of any further information pursuant to sub-paragraph  (c)
(where further information has been requested); and

3.6.e

If a requirement consultee does not give notification as specified in sub-
paragraph  (d)  it is deemed to have no comments on the application.

##### Appeals

4

4.1

The undertaker may appeal in the event that—

4.1.a

the relevant planning authority refuses an application for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order or
grants it subject to conditions;

4.1.b

the relevant planning authority is deemed to have refused an application
pursuant to paragraph  2(4) ;

4.1.c

on receipt of a request for further information pursuant to paragraph  3  the
undertaker considers that either the whole or part of the specified
information requested by the relevant planning authority is not necessary for
consideration of the application; or

4.1.d

on receipt of any further information requested, the relevant planning
authority notifies the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate
and requests additional information which the undertaker considers is not
necessary for consideration of the application.

4.2

The steps to be followed in the appeal process are as follows—

4.2.a

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
relevant planning authority and any requirement consultee;

4.2.b

the Secretary of State must appoint a person to determine the appeal as soon
as reasonably practicable and must forthwith notify the appeal parties of the
identity of the appointed person and the address to which all correspondence
for the appointed person’s attention should be sent;

4.2.c

the relevant planning authority and any requirement consultee must submit
written representations to the appointed person in respect of the appeal
within 10 working days of the start date and must ensure that copies of their
written representations are sent to each other and to the undertaker on the
day on which they are submitted to the appointed person;

4.2.d

the undertaker may make any counter-submissions to the appointed person within
10 working days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-
paragraph  (c) ;

4.2.e

the appointed person must make their decision and notify it to the appeal
parties, with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event
within 30 working days of the deadline for the receipt of counter-submissions
pursuant to sub-paragraph  (d) ; and

4.2.f

the appointment of the person pursuant to sub-paragraph  (b)  may be
undertaken by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose
instead of by the Secretary of State.

4.3

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to enable the appointed person to consider the appeal they must,
within five working days of the appointed person’s appointment, notify the
appeal parties in writing specifying the further information required.

4.4

Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph  (3)  must be
provided by the relevant party to the appointed person and the other appeal
parties on the date specified by the appointed person (the “specified date”),
and the appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised
timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The revised timetable for the
appeal must require submission of written representations to the appointed
person within 10 working days of the specified date, but otherwise the process
and time limits set out in sub-paragraphs  (c)  to  (e)  of sub-paragraph  (2)
apply.

4.5

The appointed person may—

4.5.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

4.5.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the relevant planning authority
(whether the appeal relates to that part of it or not),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to them in the first
instance.

4.6

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account only such written representations as have been sent within the
relevant time limits.

4.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to them that there is sufficient material to enable a decision to be made on
the merits of the case.

4.8

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is to be final and binding
on the parties, unless proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

4.9

If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this Schedule, it
is to be deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Schedule 2 (requirements)
as if it had been given by the relevant planning authority. The relevant
planning authority may confirm any determination given by the appointed person
in identical form in writing but a failure to give such confirmation (or a
failure to give it in identical form) is not to be taken to affect or
invalidate the effect of the appointed person’s determination.

4.10

Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph  (11)  requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the relevant planning authority,
the reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

4.11

On application by the relevant planning authority or the undertaker, the
appointed person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and
as to the parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In
considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on which it is to
be made, the appointed person must have regard to advice on planning appeals
and award costs published in Planning Practice Guidance: Appeals (March 2014)
or any circular or guidance which may from time to time replace it.

##### Fees

5

5.1

Where an application is made to the relevant planning authority for written
consent, agreement or approval in respect of a requirement, the fee prescribed
under regulation 16(1)(b) of the Town and Country Planning (Fees for
Applications, Deemed Applications, Requests and Site Visits) (England)
Regulations 2012  (as may be amended or replaced from time to time) is to
apply and must be paid to the relevant planning authority for each
application.

5.2

Any fee paid under this Schedule must be refunded to the undertaker within
four weeks of—

5.2.a

the application being rejected as invalidly made; or

5.2.b

the relevant planning authority failing to determine the application within
ten weeks from the relevant date in paragraph  2(1)  unless—

5.2.b.i

within that period the undertaker agrees, in writing, that the fee is to be
retained by the relevant planning authority and credited in respect of a
future application; or

5.2.b.ii

a longer period of time for determining the application has been agreed
pursuant to paragraph  2(1)  of this Schedule.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises Longfield Solar Energy Farm Limited (referred to in
this Order as the undertaker) to construct, operate, maintain and decommission
a ground mounted solar photovoltaic generating station with a gross electrical
output capacity over 50 megawatts and associated development. The Order would
permit the undertaker to acquire, compulsorily or by agreement, land and
rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

  A copy of the Order plans and the book of reference mentioned in the Order
and certified in accordance with article  38  (certification of plans and
documents, etc) of this Order may be inspected free of charge during working
hours at Braintree District Council, Causeway House, Bocking End, Braintree,
CM7 9HB; Chelmsford City Council, Civic Centre, Duke Street, Chelmsford,
Essex, CM1 1JE and at Essex County Council, County Hall, Market Road,
Chelmsford, CM1 1QH.

