Title: The Public Service Vehicles (Licence Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend the Public Service Vehicles Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1985 in order to amend the fees payable in respect of applications for public service vehicle licences.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/125

## The Public Service Vehicles (Licence Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Road Traffic And Vehicles

  Made   5th September 2023

  Coming into operation -   1st October 2023

      The Department for Infrastructure , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 61(1)(a), 66(1)(a) and 218(1) of
the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Public Service Vehicles (Licence Fees)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation
on 1 st  October 2023.

### Amendment of the Public Service Vehicles Regulations

2

For Schedule 7 to the Public Service Vehicles Regulations (Northern Ireland)
1985  (fees for vehicle licences) substitute—

  Fees for vehicle licences

Regulations 4A(1), 5(3), 9(2),(3), (5), and (6) and 12(1)

      1. Fee payable with initial application for a vehicle licence (see
regulation 5(3)) Class I £102.50 Class II £102.50 Class III £102.50 Class IA
£114.50 Class IIA £127.00 Class IIIA £139.00 2. Fee payable with re-
application for a vehicle licence (see regulation 9(2)) Class I £102.50 Class
II £102.50 Class III £102.50 Class IA £114.50 Class IIA £127.00 Class IIIA
£139.00 3. Fee payable with re-application for a vehicle licence made within
21 days from the date of the service of the notice of refusal (see regulation
9(3)) All Classes £38.00 4. Fee payable with re-application for a vehicle
licence made under regulation 9(4) within 21 days from the service of the
notice of refusal (see regulation 9(5) and (6)) Class IA £38.00 Class IIA
£38.00 Class IIIA £38.00 5. Fee payable for a duplicate vehicle licence (see
regulation 12(1)> All Classes £10.00

### Revocation

3

The Public Service Vehicles (Licence Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland 2009  are revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 5
th  September 2023         Chris Hughes   A senior officer of the Department
for Infrastructure

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Public Service Vehicles Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1985 in order to amend the fees payable in respect of applications
for public service vehicle licences.

  The fees payable for an initial application for a vehicle licence under
regulation 5(3) or for a further application under regulation 9(2) are amended
as follows-     a     Class I, II and III, the fee is increased from £90.50 to
£102.50,         b     Class IA, the fee is increased from £102.50 to £114.50,
c     Class IIA, the fee is increased from £115.00 to £127.00, and         d
Class IIIA, the fee is increased from £127.00 to £139.00.

  The fee payable for a further application for a vehicle licence under
regulation 9(3) made within 21 days from the date of the service of a notice
of refusal is increased from £19.50 to £38.00 for all classes.

  The fees payable for a further application for a vehicle licence under
regulation 9(4) made within 21 days from the date of the service of a notice
of refusal are amended as follows-     a     Class IA, the fee is increased
from £19.50 to £38.00,         b     Class IIA, the fee is increased from
£32.00 to £38.00, and         c     Class IIIA, the fee is reduced from £45.00
to £38.00.

  The Public Service Vehicles (Licence Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2009 are revoked.

  An Explanatory Memorandum and Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from Safe and Accessible Travel Division,
Department for Infrastructure, Clarence Court, 10-18 Adelaide Street, Town
Parks, Belfast BT2 8GB or online alongside this Regulation at
http//www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr

