Title: The Insolvency (Amendment No. 2) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-02-01
Description: These Rules amend the Insolvency Rules (Northern Ireland) 1991. Rule 5A.14 of those Rules lists property the official receiver must disregard for the purposes of determining the value of a debtor’s property in connection with a debt relief order under Part 7A of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989. This includes a single domestic motor vehicle whose maximum potential realisable value is less than £1,000. These Rules change that amount to £2,000.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/220

## The Insolvency (Amendment No. 2) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Insolvency

  Made   19th December 2023

  Coming into operation   01st February 2024

      The Department of Justice makes the following Rules in exercise of the
power conferred by Article 359 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989
, with the concurrence of the Department for the Economy .           In
accordance with Article 360 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989,
the Department of Justice has consulted the Committee appointed for the
purposes of Article 360 of that Order.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Rules may be cited as the Insolvency (Amendment No. 2) Rules (Northern
Ireland) 2023 and come into operation on 01st February 2024.

### Transitional provision

2

The amendment made by rule 3, applies only in relation to applications made
under Article 208B(1)  of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 on or
after the 01st February 2023.

### Amendments of the Insolvency Rules (Northern Ireland) 1991

3

3.1

The Insolvency Rules (Northern Ireland) 1991  are amended as follows.

3.2

In Rule 5A.14(4)(a), for “£1,000” substitute  “£2,000” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 19th
December 2023         Richard Pengelly   A senior officer of the Department of
Justice           The Department for the Economy concurs with the foregoing
Rules       Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on
19th December 2023         Sharon Hetherington   A senior officer of the
Department for the Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  These Rules amend the Insolvency Rules (Northern Ireland) 1991. Rule 5A.14
of those Rules lists property the official receiver must disregard for the
purposes of determining the value of a debtor’s property in connection with a
debt relief order under Part 7A of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989. This includes a single domestic motor vehicle whose maximum potential
realisable value is less than £1,000. These Rules change that amount to
£2,000.

  The effect which this instrument will have on business and voluntary bodies
was considered as part of a regulatory impact assessment prepared for changes
to all four financial eligibility limits for the debt relief scheme, which is
available from the Insolvency Service, Fermanagh House, Ormeau Avenue,
Belfast, BT2 8NJ, and is also published on the Department for the Economy
website

  Regulatory Impact Assessment - Proposed increases to the monetary
eligibility limits for Debt Relief Orders in Northern Ireland ( economy-
ni.gov.uk )

  An Explanatory Memorandum has been prepared and is available alongside these
Rules at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

