Title: The Nuclear Regulated Asset Base Model (Revenue Collection) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-11-19
Description: These Regulations impose a number of obligations on persons who supply electricity in Great Britain pursuant to an electricity supply licence (granted by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority under section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989). Those obligations principally consist of requirements to make payments to the revenue collection counterparty, a person who is designated as such under section 15 of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022 (“the 2022 Act”). The payments are made to enable the revenue collection counterparty to meet its costs, which include the costs it incurs in meeting obligations it has under revenue collection contracts. The counterparty is also, in some circumstances, required to make payments to electricity suppliers.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/254

## The Nuclear Regulated Asset Base Model (Revenue Collection) Regulations 2023

    Electricity       Nuclear Energy

  Made   2nd March 2023

  Coming into force   23rd March 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 15(1) and (5), 17(2), (3) and (5), 18(2) and
(3), 19(1), (2) and (4) to (8), 20, 21(1), (2), (4) and (5), and 22 to 24 of
the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022 .       The Secretary of State has, in
accordance with section 25(1) of that Act, consulted the persons listed in
section 25(1)(a) to (c) and (e) to (g) and such other persons as the Secretary
of State considered appropriate to consult .           A draft of this
instrument was laid before Parliament in accordance with section 15(7) of that
Act and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Nuclear Regulated Asset Base Model
(Revenue Collection) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force 21 days after the day on which they are
made.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022;           “
absolute value ”, in relation to an amount, means the magnitude of that amount
without regard to whether that amount is positive or negative;           “
additional reserve payment ” means a payment an electricity supplier is
required to make under regulation  13(3) ;           “ adjusted interim levy
rate ” is to be construed in accordance with regulation  12(1) ;           “
the Balancing and Settlement Code ” means the code for the governance of
electricity balancing and settlement in Great Britain, as amended from time to
time, which is maintained in accordance with the conditions of transmission
licences granted under section 6(1)(b) of the Electricity Act 1989 ;
“ BM Unit ” has the meaning given in the Balancing and Settlement Code (see
section X of that code) and “ registered ”, in relation to a BM Unit, means
registered in accordance with the requirements of section K of the Balancing
and Settlement Code;           “ BSC volume allocation run ” means any one of
the following—         an Initial Volume Allocation Run,           an Interim
Information Volume Allocation Run,           a Reconciliation Volume
Allocation Run (including a Final Reconciliation Volume Allocation Run or a
Post-Final Volume Allocation Run);                 “ the BSCCo ” means ELEXON
Limited (company number 03782949) or any successor to that company acting in
the capacity of the BSCCo within the meaning given in the Balancing and
Settlement Code;           “ EII excluded electricity ” means electricity
which constitutes EII excluded electricity within the meaning of regulation
6(1) of the Electricity Supplier Obligations (Amendment & Excluded
Electricity) Regulations 2015 ;           “ electricity generation licence ”
has the meaning given in section 1(5) of the Act;           “ electricity
supplier ” means a person who is the holder of a licence to supply electricity
under section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989;           “estimated
quarterly obligation period electricity supply”, “estimated quarterly
obligation period income”, and “estimated quarterly obligation period payment
cost” are to be construed in accordance with regulation  6 ;           “ final
reconciliation determination ” is to be construed in accordance with
regulation  15(2) ;           “ Final Reconciliation Volume Allocation Run ”
has the meaning given in the Balancing and Settlement Code (see section U of
that code);           “ first operational cost period ” means the period—
beginning with the first payment period start date; and           ending with—
except where paragraph (ii) applies, the earliest 31st March to occur after
the first payment period start date; or           if the first payment period
start date occurs on a 31st March, the first payment period start date;
“ first payment period start date ” means the date of entry into the first
revenue collection contract by the revenue collection counterparty;
“ first payment period end date ” means the earlier of 31st March, 30th June,
30th September or 31st December following the first payment period start date;
“ Initial Volume Allocation Run ” has the meaning given in the Balancing and
Settlement Code (see section U of that code);           “ Interim Information
Volume Allocation Run ” has the meaning given in the Balancing and Settlement
Code (see section U of that code);           “ interim rate payment ” is to be
construed in accordance with regulation  7 ;           “ letter of credit ”
means a letter from a person which contains an irrevocable and unconditional
authorisation in favour of the revenue collection counterparty to be paid by
that person on demand up to an amount stated in the letter;
“mutualisation amount” and “mutualisation notice” are to be construed in
accordance with regulation  17 ;           “ operational cost period ” means—
the first operational cost period, or           any subsequent period
beginning with 1st April in a year and ending with 31 st  March in the
following year;                 “ Post-Final Volume Allocation Run ” has the
meaning given in the Balancing and Settlement Code (see section U of that
code);           “ quarterly obligation period ” means—         in respect of
the first such period, the period from the first payment period start date to
the first payment period end date; and           for any other such period, a
period of 3 months commencing with 1st April, 1st July, 1st October or 1st
January (as applicable);                 “ RCC party ” means a person, other
than the revenue collection counterparty, who is a party to a revenue
collection contract;           “ RCC party payment ” means any payment which
an RCC party must make to the revenue collection counterparty under, or
pursuant to, a revenue collection contract, and includes a payment made to a
person to whom a benefit under, or pursuant to, a revenue collection contract
has been assigned in accordance with the terms of that revenue collection
contract;           “ RCC period contribution ” is to be construed in
accordance with regulation  3 ;           “reconciliation determination” and
“reconciliation period” are to be construed in accordance with regulation
15(1) ;           “ reconciliation payment ” means a payment an electricity
supplier or the revenue collection counterparty is required to make under
regulation  16(4) ;           “ Reconciliation Volume Allocation Run ” has the
meaning given in the Balancing and Settlement Code (see section U of that
code);           “ reduced reserve payment ” is to be construed in accordance
with regulation  14(4)(b) ;           “ relevant licence ”, in relation to a
particular RCC party, means that RCC party’s electricity generation licence;
“ reserve payment ” means a payment an electricity supplier is required to
make under regulation  10(1) ;           “ reserve period ” means a period
beginning with the 13th working day of a quarterly obligation period and
ending with the 13th working day of the subsequent quarterly obligation
period;           “ revenue collection contract ” has the meaning given in
section 14(1) of the Act;           “ revenue collection counterparty ” has
the meaning given in section 14(1) of the Act;           “ revenue collection
counterparty payment ” means any payment which the revenue collection
counterparty must make—         under or pursuant to a revenue collection
contract;           to an RCC party for the purpose of compensating that
person in respect of any breach of any duty (however that duty arises) owed to
that person by the revenue collection counterparty which is connected to a
revenue collection contract;         and includes any payment made to a person
to whom a benefit under (or pursuant to) a revenue collection contract has
been assigned in accordance with the terms of that revenue collection
contract;           “ SoS funds ” means any financial assistance (within the
meaning of section 41(4) of the Act) provided by the Secretary of State to the
revenue collection counterparty for the purposes of making revenue collection
counterparty payments and adjusting payments due from electricity suppliers in
accordance with these Regulations;           “ supplier ” means an electricity
supplier;           “ total reserve amount ” is to be construed in accordance
with regulation  9 (1)(a);           “ working day ” means a day other than a
Saturday, a Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under the
Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971  in England, Wales or Scotland.

2.2

Any reference in these Regulations to an amount of electricity is a reference
to that amount expressed in megawatt hours.

2.3

Any reference in these Regulations to a supply of electricity is a reference
to its supply in Great Britain, and “ supply ” is to be construed in
accordance with section 4(4) of the Electricity Act 1989 .

2.4

Any reference in these Regulations to an amount to be paid or provided is a
reference to that amount expressed in pounds sterling and rounded to the
nearest whole penny with any half of a penny being rounded upwards.

2.5

Where more than one person is designated under section 16 of the Act as a
revenue collection counterparty, these Regulations apply subject to the
modifications set out in the Schedule.

### Supplier obligation

#### The supplier obligation

##### The supplier obligation

3

3.1

Every electricity supplier who supplies electricity during a quarterly
obligation period must, subject to paragraph  (3) , pay an RCC period
contribution to the revenue collection counterparty in respect of that period.

3.2

That contribution is to be calculated in accordance with regulation  4 .

3.3

Where the amount of a supplier’s RCC period contribution in respect of a
quarterly obligation period is a negative number—

3.3.a

the amount the supplier must pay under paragraph  (1)  in respect of that
period is zero; and

3.3.b

the revenue collection counterparty must pay the absolute value of that amount
to that supplier.

3.4

For the purpose of ensuring that the RCC period contribution is paid—

3.4.a

an electricity supplier must make—

3.4.a.i

interim rate payments in accordance with regulation  7(1) ,

3.4.a.ii

supplier data reconciliation payments in accordance with regulation  8(2) ,

3.4.a.iii

reserve payments in accordance with regulation  10(1) ,

3.4.a.iv

any additional reserve payments required by regulation  13(3) , and

3.4.a.v

any reconciliation payments required by regulation  16(3)(a) ; and

3.4.b

the revenue collection counterparty must make—

3.4.b.i

counterparty data reconciliation payments in accordance with regulation  8(3)
, and

3.4.b.ii

any required reconciliation payments in accordance with regulation  16(3)(b) .

##### RCC period contribution

4

4.1

The RCC period contribution for a supplier for a quarterly obligation period
is the amount given by—

        G P ± S o S   r e p a y m e n t - C P ± S o S   p a y m e n t ± D I ×
S Q S - X E P T Q S - A X P               where—         GP is the total
amount of revenue collection counterparty payments which the revenue
collection counterparty was required to make in the quarterly obligation
period;           SoS repayment is—         unless sub-paragraph (b) or (c)
applies, the SoS payment in respect of the quarterly obligation period that
ended three whole quarterly obligation periods before the quarterly obligation
period for which this calculation is made (a “full SoS repayment”);
unless paragraph (c) applies and if the Secretary of State has specified that
only a proportion of the full SoS repayment is to be used for the purposes of
this paragraph, that amount;           where the contribution is for any of
first four quarterly obligation periods, zero;       CP is the total amount of
RCC party payments which the revenue collection counterparty received from RCC
parties in the quarterly obligation period;       SoS payment is the total
amount of any SoS funds that the Secretary of State has specified are to be
used when calculating the RCC period contribution in respect of the quarterly
obligation period;       DI is any amount of interest which was paid by virtue
of regulation  7(6) ,  8(7) ,  10(2) ,  13(7) ,  16(5)  or  17(7)  during that
period, less any amount of that interest which was paid to electricity
suppliers by virtue of regulation  18(2) ;       SQS is the amount of
electricity supplied by that supplier in the quarterly obligation period;
XEP is the amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by that supplier in the
quarterly obligation period;       TQS is the total amount of electricity
supplied by all suppliers in the quarterly obligation period; and       AXP is
the total amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by all suppliers in the
quarterly obligation period.

4.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the amount of electricity supplied by a
supplier in a quarterly obligation period is the amount of electricity which
the BSCCo determines was supplied by that supplier on the basis of—

4.2.a

Final Reconciliation Volume Allocation Runs for each day within the quarterly
obligation period; or

4.2.b

where a Post-Final Volume Allocation Run has occurred in relation to a day on
which electricity was supplied, the Post-Final Volume Allocation Run for that
day.

4.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty makes a determination under these
Regulations which requires the determination of the amount of electricity
supplied on a day which is EII excluded electricity, it must, where possible,
base that determination of EII excluded electricity on information derived
from the most recent BSC volume allocation run carried out by the BSCCo in
relation to the day on which the electricity was supplied.

#### Interim daily levy

##### Setting the interim levy rate

5

5.1

The revenue collection counterparty must, in respect of every quarterly
obligation period, determine an interim levy rate which is to apply for that
period.

5.2

The revenue collection counterparty must determine the interim levy rate for a
quarterly obligation period at least 30 days before the commencement of that
quarterly obligation period.

5.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty has determined an interim levy rate
for a quarterly obligation period it must—

5.3.a

as soon as reasonably practicable, publish a notice setting out that rate and
issue that notice to every electricity supplier who has a BM Unit registered
as at the day before the date of publication of the notice, and

5.3.b

issue that notice to every electricity supplier who has a BM Unit that becomes
registered on or after the date of publication of the notice and by the last
day of the quarterly obligation period to which that rate applies, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the BM Unit is registered.

5.4

Subject to paragraph  (5) , the interim levy rate for a quarterly obligation
period is to be determined as the amount given by—

        E O C - E O I E O S               where—         EOC is the estimated
quarterly obligation period payment cost, determined in accordance with
regulation  6 (1) ;           EOI is the estimated quarterly obligation period
income, determined in accordance with regulation  6 (2) ; and           EOS is
the estimated quarterly obligation period electricity supply, estimated in
accordance with regulation  6 (4) .

5.5

Where the amount given by the calculation in paragraph  (4)  in relation to a
quarterly obligation period is less than zero, the interim levy rate must be
determined as zero for that period.

##### Estimated cost, income & electricity supply

6

6.1

The estimated quarterly obligation period payment cost in respect of a
quarterly obligation period (“the rate period”) is the sum of the revenue
collection counterparty’s estimate of—

6.1.a

any SoS repayment in respect of that rate period, and

6.1.b

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate, made in accordance with the
revenue collection contracts, of the GP required to be paid by the revenue
collection counterparty in respect of that rate period.

6.2

The estimated quarterly obligation period income in respect of the rate period
is the sum of—

6.2.a

any SoS funds that the Secretary of State has specified will be available in
respect of that rate period and that the Secretary of State has specified
should be taken into account when calculating the interim levy rate under
regulation  5  or adjusting the levy rate under regulation  12  (as
applicable); and

6.2.b

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate, having regard to the matters
set out in paragraph  (3) , of the CP that will be paid to the revenue
collection counterparty in respect of that rate period.

6.3

The matters referred to in paragraph (2)(b) are—

6.3.a

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate, made in accordance with the
revenue collection contracts, of the CP required to be paid to the revenue
collection counterparty during the rate period, and

6.3.b

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate of the likelihood of the RCC
parties failing to make the payments required under the revenue collection
contracts.

6.4

The estimated quarterly obligation period electricity supply in respect of the
rate period is the amount of electricity which the revenue collection
counterparty estimates will be supplied by all electricity suppliers in the
rate period, less the amount of EII excluded electricity which it estimates
will be supplied by all suppliers in that rate period.

6.5

In this regulation “CP”, “GP” and “SoS repayment” have the meaning given in
regulation  4 .

##### Interim rate payments

7

7.1

An electricity supplier must make a payment (“an interim rate payment”) to the
revenue collection counterparty in respect of each day on which that supplier
supplies electricity in Great Britain during a quarterly obligation period.

7.2

The amount of an interim rate payment to be paid by a supplier in respect of a
day is equal to the amount of electricity supplied by that supplier on that
day, less any amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by that supplier on
that day, multiplied by the interim levy rate which applies in relation to
that day.

7.3

The interim levy rate which applies in relation to a day is—

7.3.a

the rate determined under regulation  5 , or

7.3.b

where an adjusted interim rate which has been determined under regulation
11(1)(a)  has effect in accordance with regulation  12(4) , that rate.

7.4

The revenue collection counterparty must, as soon as reasonably practicable
after the BSCCo has carried out an Interim Information Volume Allocation Run
in respect of a day in a quarterly obligation period, issue a notice to each
electricity supplier who supplied electricity on that day stating the interim
rate payment which the supplier to whom the notice is issued must pay in
respect of that day.

7.5

A supplier must make an interim rate payment in respect of a day by the 5th
working day after the day on which the revenue collection counterparty has
issued a notice under paragraph  (4)  to that supplier.

7.6

Where a supplier fails to pay all or part of an interim rate payment by the
day on which that payment must be made, that supplier must pay the revenue
collection counterparty simple interest on any unpaid amount at the rate
specified in regulation  36(1)  from the day after the day on which that
payment should have been made.

7.7

For the purposes of paragraph  (2) , the amount of electricity supplied by an
electricity supplier on a particular day is the amount of electricity which
the BSCCo determines, on the basis of an Interim Information Volume Allocation
Run in respect of that day, as the amount of electricity supplied by that
supplier on that day.

##### Data reconciliation of interim rate payments

8

8.1

This regulation applies where, before the conclusion of a quarterly obligation
period, the BSCCo carries out a relevant allocation run in respect of a day in
that period and the reconciled interim rate amount in relation to that day for
an electricity supplier is different to the net levied interim rate payment
for that supplier.

8.2

Where that reconciled interim rate amount is more than the net levied interim
rate payment the supplier must pay the difference to the revenue collection
counterparty.

8.3

Where that reconciled interim rate amount is less than the net levied interim
rate payment the revenue collection counterparty must pay the difference to
the supplier.

8.4

The revenue collection counterparty must, as soon as reasonably practicable
after the BSCCo has carried out a relevant allocation run in respect of a day,
issue a notice to each electricity supplier which states the amount which must
be paid by virtue of paragraph  (2)  or  (3) .

8.5

An electricity supplier who is required to make payment by virtue of paragraph
(2)  must make that payment by the 5th working day after the day on which the
revenue collection counterparty issues the notice to that supplier under
paragraph  (4) .

8.6

The revenue collection counterparty must make a payment it is required to make
by virtue of paragraph  (3)  by the 8th working day after the day on which the
BSCCo carried out the relevant allocation run following which the revenue
collection counterparty is required to make that payment.

8.7

Where a supplier fails to pay all or part of a payment it is required to make
by virtue of paragraph  (2) , that supplier must pay the revenue collection
counterparty simple interest at the rate specified in regulation  36(1)  on
any unpaid amount from the day after the day on which that payment should have
been made.

8.8

For the purposes of this regulation—

8.8.a

the reconciled interim rate amount for a supplier in relation to a day is
equal to the amount of electricity supplied by that supplier on that day less
any amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by that supplier on that day
multiplied by the interim levy rate which applies to that day by virtue of
regulation  7(3) ;

8.8.b

the net levied interim rate payment for a supplier in relation to a day is the
sum of the interim rate payment that supplier was required to pay in respect
of that day, and any payments that supplier was previously required to pay in
respect of that day, by virtue of paragraph  (2) , less any payments the
revenue collection counterparty was previously required to pay to that
supplier in respect of that day by virtue of paragraph  (3) ;

8.8.c

a relevant allocation run is an Initial Volume Allocation Run or a
Reconciliation Volume Allocation Run; and

8.8.d

the amount of electricity supplied by an electricity supplier on a particular
day is the amount of electricity which the BSCCo determines, on the basis of
the most recent relevant allocation run in relation to that day, as the amount
of electricity supplied by that supplier on that day.

#### Payments for reserve

##### Reserve payments

9

9.1

The revenue collection counterparty must determine—

9.1.a

the total amount of reserve payments (“the total reserve amount”) to be
collected from suppliers in respect of each quarterly obligation period,
calculated in accordance with paragraph  (6) ; and

9.1.b

the amount of each electricity supplier’s reserve payment in respect of each
quarterly obligation period, calculated in accordance with regulation  10 .

9.2

The revenue collection counterparty must make and publish its determination of
the total reserve amount for a quarterly obligation period before the relevant
day.

9.3

The revenue collection counterparty must determine the amount of each
electricity supplier’s reserve payment for a quarterly obligation period
before the end of the period of 8 working days beginning with the relevant
day.

9.4

The revenue collection counterparty must issue to every relevant supplier a
notice which sets out the amount of that supplier’s reserve payment for a
quarterly obligation period before the end of the period of 8 working days
beginning with the relevant day.

9.5

For the purpose of paragraph  (4) , a “relevant supplier” is an electricity
supplier who supplied electricity during the reference period (within the
meaning given by regulation  10(4) ).

9.6

The total reserve amount for a quarterly obligation period is the amount which
the revenue collection counterparty determines it would need to be paid for
there to be a 19 in 20 probability of it being able to make all the payments
it is required to make to RCC parties during the reserve period which
commences during that quarterly obligation period having regard to—

9.6.a

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate of the payments it expects to
receive from the RCC parties during that reserve period;

9.6.b

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate of the payments it will be
required to make to RCC parties and electricity suppliers during that reserve
period;

9.6.c

the likelihood of any supplier failing to make payments it is required to make
under these Regulations during that reserve period; and

9.6.d

any SoS funds that the Secretary of State has specified will be available in
respect of that reserve period and that the Secretary of State has specified
should be taken into account when adjusting the total reserve amount.

9.7

In this regulation the “ relevant day ” means the day which is 30 days before
the beginning of the relevant quarterly obligation period.

##### Individual suppliers’ reserve amounts

10

10.1

An electricity supplier who supplied electricity during the reference period
must make a reserve payment to the revenue collection counterparty in respect
of a quarterly obligation period (“ the relevant period ”) by—

10.1.a

in the case of the first quarterly obligation period, the 5th working day
after the first payment period start date;

10.1.b

in the case of a subsequent quarterly obligation period, the 5th working day
after the day on which the revenue collection counterparty has issued a notice
to that supplier under regulation  15(3)  for the relevant period.

10.2

Where a supplier fails to pay all or part of a reserve payment by the date by
which it must be paid in accordance with paragraph  (1) , that supplier must
pay the revenue collection counterparty simple interest on any unpaid amount
at the rate specified in regulation  36(1)  from the day after the date by
which that amount should have been paid.

10.3

Subject to regulation  14 , the amount of a supplier’s reserve payment in
respect of the relevant period is the amount given by—

        T R A × S R E - S X E R E - X E               where—         TRA is
total reserve amount for that period;           SRE is the amount of
electricity supplied by that supplier in the reference period as determined on
the date on which that total reserve amount is determined;           SXE is
the amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by that supplier in the
reference period as determined on the date on which that total reserve amount
is determined;           RE is the total amount of electricity supplied by all
suppliers in the reference period as determined on the date on which that
total reserve amount is determined; and           XE is the total amount of
EII excluded electricity supplied by all suppliers in the reference period as
determined on the date on which that total reserve amount is determined.

10.4

The reference period is the most recent period of 30 consecutive days in
respect of which the BSCCo has carried out an Initial Volume Allocation Run
before the revenue collection counterparty makes its determination under
regulation  9(1)(a)  in respect of the relevant period.

10.5

For the purposes of paragraph  (3)  the amount of electricity supplied by an
electricity supplier in a reference period or adjusted reference period is the
amount of all electricity which the BSCCo determines was supplied by that
supplier in that period, on the basis of the most recent BSC volume allocation
run which the BSCCo has carried out.

#### Adjustments to interim rate and additional reserve payments

##### In period adjustments

11

11.1

Where the revenue collection counterparty is of the opinion that there is a
high degree of likelihood that it will be unable to make all payments it is
required to make to RCC parties in respect of a quarterly obligation period it
may, if it thinks it expedient to do so—

11.1.a

determine an adjusted interim levy rate in respect of that period in
accordance with regulation  12 ;

11.1.b

determine an additional total reserve amount in respect of that period in
accordance with regulation  13 ;

11.1.c

determine an adjusted interim levy rate and an additional total reserve amount
in respect of that period.

11.2

The revenue collection counterparty must take such steps as it considers
necessary to ensure that electricity suppliers are kept informed of the
likelihood that it will be unable to make all payments it is required to make
to RCC parties in respect of a quarterly obligation period.

11.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty is of the opinion that there is a
high degree of likelihood that it will collect significantly more from
suppliers under regulations  7(1)  and  10(1)  in respect of a quarterly
obligation period than the amount it requires to be able to make all payments
it is required to make to RCC parties in respect of that period it may, in
accordance with regulation  12 , determine an adjusted interim levy rate in
respect of that period.

##### Adjusted interim levy rate

12

12.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , an adjusted interim levy rate (“adjusted interim
levy rate”) for a quarterly obligation period (“the rate period”) is to be
determined as the amount given by—

        E O C - E O I ± S P C E P S               where—         EOC is the
estimated quarterly obligation period payment cost in respect of the rate
period, estimated in accordance with regulation  6(1)  as at the time of the
determination of the adjusted interim levy rate;           EOI is the
estimated quarterly obligation period income in respect of the rate period,
estimated in accordance with regulation  6 (2)  as at the time of the
determination of the adjusted interim levy rate;           SPC is the sum of—
the total amount of interim rate payments which have been received by the
revenue collection counterparty in respect of electricity supply during the
rate period as at the time of the determination of the adjusted interim levy
rate; and           the total amount of interim rate payments which the
revenue collection counterparty estimates it will receive in respect of
electricity supply during the rate period, in the period from the time of the
determination of the adjusted interim levy rate until the adjusted interim
levy rate has effect; and       EPS is the amount of electricity which the
revenue collection counterparty estimates will be supplied by all electricity
suppliers in that period from the time the adjusted interim levy rate has
effect until the conclusion of the rate period, less the amount of EII
excluded electricity which it estimates will be supplied by all suppliers in
that period.

12.2

Where the rate determined in accordance with paragraph  (1)  would be a
negative number, the revenue collection counterparty must determine the
adjusted interim levy rate as zero.

12.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty has determined an adjusted interim
levy rate it must—

12.3.a

as soon as reasonably practicable, publish a notice setting out that rate and
issue that notice to every electricity supplier who has a BM Unit registered
as at the day before the date of publication of the notice,

12.3.b

issue that notice to every electricity supplier who has a BM Unit that becomes
registered on or after the date of publication of the notice and by the last
day of the quarterly obligation period during which that rate has effect, as
soon as reasonably practicable after the BM Unit is registered; and

12.3.c

where paragraph  (5)  applies, specify a date on which the rate shall have
effect.

12.4

Where the adjusted interim levy rate is greater than the previous levy rate,
it has effect from the latest of—

12.4.a

the commencement of the rate period;

12.4.b

the 30th day after the revenue collection counterparty has published the
notice under paragraph  (3) ;

12.4.c

any later date in the rate period which the revenue collection counterparty
specifies in the notice under paragraph  (3) .

12.5

Where the adjusted interim levy rate is less than the previous levy rate, it
has effect from the date specified in the notice published under paragraph
(3) .

12.6

For the purpose of paragraphs  (4)  and  (5) , “ previous levy rate ” means
the interim levy rate or the adjusted interim levy rate, whichever is most
recently determined in respect of the rate period.

##### Additional total reserve amount

13

13.1

An additional total reserve amount in respect of a quarterly obligation period
is the amount which the revenue collection counterparty determines it would
need to be paid, having regard to the matters set out in paragraph  (2) —

13.1.a

to be able to make any revenue collection counterparty payments it has failed
to make during the reserve period which commences during that quarterly
obligation period; and

13.1.b

for there to be a 19 in 20 probability of it being able to make all payments
it is required to make to RCC parties during the reserve period after the
making of the determination.

13.2

The matters referred in paragraph  (1)  are—

13.2.a

the amount of interim rate payments which it expects to be paid during the
reserve period after the making of the determination of the additional total
reserve amount;

13.2.b

any other amount which it expects to be paid by suppliers during the reserve
period after the making of that determination;

13.2.c

the likelihood of any supplier failing to make payments it is required to make
under these Regulations during the reserve period;

13.2.d

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate of the payments it expects to
receive from the RCC parties and electricity suppliers during the reserve
period;

13.2.e

the revenue collection counterparty’s estimate of the payments it will be
required to make to the RCC parties and electricity suppliers during the
reserve period; and

13.2.f

the amount of any SoS funds that the Secretary of State has specified will be
available in respect of the reserve period and that the Secretary of State has
specified should be taken into account when adjusting the total reserve
amount.

13.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty determines an additional total
reserve amount, each electricity supplier who supplied electricity during the
adjusted reference period must pay an additional reserve payment.

13.4

An electricity supplier’s additional reserve payment is the amount given by—

        T A A × S R E - S X E R E - X E               where—         TAA is
the additional total reserve amount;           SRE is the amount of
electricity (within the meaning given by regulation  10(5) ) supplied by that
supplier in the adjusted reference period as determined at the time that
additional total reserve amount is determined;           SXE is the amount of
EII excluded electricity supplied by that supplier in the adjusted reference
period as determined on the date on which that additional total reserve amount
is determined;           RE is the total amount of electricity (within the
meaning given by regulation  10(5) ) supplied by all suppliers in the adjusted
reference period, as determined at the time that additional total reserve
amount is determined; and           XE is the total amount of EII excluded
electricity supplied by all suppliers in the adjusted reference period as
determined on the date on which that additional total reserve amount is
determined.

13.5

Where the revenue collection counterparty has determined an additional total
reserve amount it must—

13.5.a

publish a notice setting out its determination of the additional total reserve
amount, and

13.5.b

issue a notice to every electricity supplier who supplied electricity during
the adjusted reference period setting out its determination of that supplier’s
additional reserve payment.

13.6

An electricity supplier must pay an additional reserve payment in respect of
the reserve period by the later of—

13.6.a

the date by which a reserve payment is due from that supplier in respect of
that period;

13.6.b

the 30th day after the revenue collection counterparty has published a notice
under paragraph  (5) (a) ; or

13.6.c

any later date which the revenue collection counterparty specifies in the
notice published under paragraph  (5) (a) .

13.7

Where a supplier fails to make all or part of an additional reserve payment by
the date it must be paid in accordance with paragraph  (6) , that supplier
must pay the revenue collection counterparty simple interest on any unpaid
amount at the rate specified in regulation  36(1)  from the day after the date
by which that amount should have been paid.

13.8

For the purposes of—

13.8.a

paragraphs  (3) ,  (4)  and  (5) , “ the adjusted reference period ” means the
most recent period of 30 consecutive days in respect of which the BSCCo has
carried out an Initial Volume Allocation Run;

13.8.b

paragraph (4), the amount of electricity supplied by an electricity supplier
in a reference period or adjusted reference period is the amount of all
electricity which the BSCCo determines was supplied by that supplier in that
period, on the basis of the most recent BSC volume allocation run which the
BSCCo has carried out.

##### Determination of reduced total reserve amount

14

14.1

This regulation applies where the revenue collection counterparty is of the
opinion that there is a high degree of likelihood that it will collect
significantly more from suppliers under regulations  7(1)  and  10(1)  in
respect of a quarterly obligation period than the amount it requires to be
able to make all payments it is required to make during the reserve period
which commences during that quarterly obligation period, taking into account
any SoS funds that the Secretary of State has specified will be available in
respect of that reserve period and that the Secretary of State has specified
should be taken into account when adjusting the total reserve amount.

14.2

Subject to paragraph (3), where this regulation applies the revenue collection
counterparty may determine again the total reserve amount in respect of that
quarterly obligation period in accordance with regulation  9(1)(a)  and  (6)
(the “reduced total reserve amount”).

14.3

The revenue collection counterparty may not make a determination under
paragraph (2) after the date which is 5 working days before the date on which
electricity suppliers must make a reserve payment under regulation  10(1) .

14.4

Where the revenue collection counterparty makes a determination under
paragraph (2) in respect of a quarterly obligation period, it must—

14.4.a

publish a notice setting out its determination of the reduced total reserve
amount for that period;

14.4.b

recalculate the amount (the “reduced reserve payment”) each supplier must pay
under regulation  10(1)  in respect of that period in accordance with
regulation  10(3) ; and

14.4.c

issue a notice to each electricity supplier who was issued a notice under
regulation  9(4)  in respect of that period setting out the reduced reserve
payment that supplier must pay under regulation  10(1)  in respect of that
period.

14.5

The requirement to issue a notice under paragraph (4)(c) does not apply where
a notice has been issued under regulation  15(3)  in respect of the same
obligation period.

14.6

Where the revenue collection counterparty issues a notice to a supplier under
paragraph (4)(c) and that supplier has already made a reserve payment in
respect of the quarterly obligation period to which it relates which exceeds
the reduced reserve payment due from that supplier, the revenue collection
counterparty must pay back to that supplier the difference between the amount
of that reserve payment and the reduced reserve payment now due from that
supplier as soon as reasonably practicable.

#### Reconciliation payments

##### Reconciliation payments

15

15.1

The revenue collection counterparty must calculate, in accordance with
regulation  16(1) , the amounts to be paid as reconciliation payments by
electricity suppliers or by that counterparty (“a reconciliation
determination”) in respect of a quarterly obligation period (“the
reconciliation period”)—

15.1.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the revenue collection counterparty
has issued a notice under regulation  7(4)  in respect of the day which is the
last day of the reconciliation period, and in any event before the conclusion
of the quarterly obligation period which immediately follows the
reconciliation period; and

15.1.b

once in every subsequent quarterly obligation period until the final
reconciliation determination has been carried out in respect of the
reconciliation period, as soon as reasonably practicable after the revenue
collection counterparty has issued a notice under regulation  7(4)  in respect
of the last day of the quarterly obligation period which concluded immediately
prior to that subsequent period, and in any event before the conclusion of
that subsequent period.

15.2

The final reconciliation determination in respect of the reconciliation period
is the 10th reconciliation determination made in respect of that period.

15.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty makes a reconciliation determination
it must, as soon as reasonably practicable, issue a notice to each relevant
supplier setting out—

15.3.a

the amount of any reconciliation payment which the revenue collection
counterparty must make to that supplier following that determination; and

15.3.b

the amount of any reconciliation payment which that supplier must make to the
revenue collection counterparty following that determination.

15.4

For the purpose of paragraph  (3) , a “relevant supplier” is an electricity
supplier who—

15.4.a

supplied electricity during the reconciliation period,

15.4.b

is due to make or receive a reconciliation payment, or

15.4.c

is due to make a reserve payment.

##### Determination of reconciliation payments

16

16.1

The amount of a reconciliation payment to be paid to or by a supplier in
respect of the reconciliation period is the revenue collection counterparty’s
calculation, at the time of making that calculation, of the RCC period
contribution in relation to that supplier in respect of the reconciliation
period, less the net levied amount for that supplier in respect of that
period.

16.2

For the purposes of the calculation of a RCC period contribution, where a
Final Reconciliation Volume Allocation Run or Post-Final Volume Allocation Run
has not been carried out by the BSCCo in relation to a day in the
reconciliation period, the amount of electricity supplied on that day by a
supplier is to be determined on the basis of the most recent BSC volume
allocation run which the BSCCo has carried out in relation to that day.

16.3

Where the amount of a reconciliation payment in relation to an electricity
supplier—

16.3.a

is a positive number, that supplier must pay that amount to the revenue
collection counterparty;

16.3.b

is a negative number, the revenue collection counterparty must pay the
absolute value of that amount to that supplier.

16.4

Where, following a reconciliation determination, the revenue collection
counterparty must make a reconciliation payment to an electricity supplier, or
that electricity supplier must make a reconciliation payment to the revenue
collection counterparty, that payment must be made by the 5th working day
after the day on which the revenue collection counterparty has issued a notice
to that supplier under regulation  15(3)  in respect of that reconciliation
determination.

16.5

Where an electricity supplier is required to pay a reconciliation payment and
it fails to pay all or part of that payment by the day on which that payment
must be made, that supplier must pay the revenue collection counterparty
simple interest on any unpaid amount at the rate specified in regulation
36(1)  from the day after the day on which the payment should have been made.

16.6

For the purposes of paragraph  (1) , the net levied amount for a supplier in
respect of a reconciliation period is the amount of the supplier obligation
amount less the counterparty obligation amount.

16.7

For the purposes paragraph (6)—

      “the supplier obligation amount” is the sum of the following amounts—
any payment that supplier was required to make under regulation  7(1)  in
respect of a day in the reconciliation period;           the sum of any
payments that supplier was required to make under regulation  8(2)  in respect
of days in the reconciliation period;           any payment that supplier was
required to make under regulation  10(1)  in respect of the reconciliation
period;           any payment that supplier was required to make under
regulation  13(3)  in respect of the reconciliation period; and           the
sum of any reconciliation payments which that supplier was required to make
under paragraph  (3) (a)  in respect of any previous reconciliation
determination made in relation to the reconciliation period;
“the counterparty obligation amount” is the sum of the following amounts—
the sum of any payments the revenue collection counterparty was required to
make under regulation  8(3)  in respect of days in the reconciliation period;
and           the sum of any reconciliation payments which the revenue
collection counterparty was required to make under paragraph  (3) (b)  in
respect of any previous reconciliation determination made in relation to the
reconciliation period.

#### Mutualisation

##### Mutualisation

17

17.1

Where an electricity supplier (“the defaulting supplier”) fails to make a
relevant payment the revenue collection counterparty may, subject to paragraph
(5) , require non-defaulting suppliers to pay a share of an amount equal to
the amount which was not paid by issuing a notice (“a mutualisation notice”)
to each non-defaulting supplier who supplied electricity during the reference
period.

17.2

For the purposes of this regulation a “ non-defaulting supplier ” in relation
to a mutualisation notice means an electricity supplier who has—

17.2.a

not failed to make any relevant payment within the time limit for making the
payment under these Regulations;

17.2.b

failed to make one or more relevant payments all of which have subsequently
been paid to the revenue collection counterparty by the time the defaulting
supplier was required to make the relevant payment referred to in paragraph
(1); or

17.2.c

failed to make one or more relevant payments not all of which have
subsequently been paid to the revenue collection counterparty by the time the
defaulting supplier was required to make the relevant payment referred to in
paragraph (1), but the revenue collection counterparty is of the opinion that
it will hold some collateral provided by that supplier by the 5th working day
after the day on which the revenue collection counterparty intends to issue
that mutualisation notice.

17.3

A mutualisation notice must state—

17.3.a

the amount which the defaulting supplier failed to pay;

17.3.b

the date by which the defaulting supplier should have paid that amount;

17.3.c

the amount (“the mutualisation amount”) which the non-defaulting supplier to
whom the notice is issued must pay, calculated in accordance with paragraph
(7) ;

17.3.d

the date (“the mutualisation date”) by which the mutualisation amount must be
paid, which must be—

17.3.d.i

in the case of a mutualisation notice issued in respect of a relevant payment
which the defaulting supplier was required to make by virtue of regulation
7(1)  or  8(2) , no earlier than 5 working days after the date on which the
notice was issued; or

17.3.d.ii

in the case of a mutualisation notice issued in respect of any other relevant
payment which the defaulting supplier was required to make, no earlier than 30
days after the date on which the notice was issued.

17.4

A mutualisation date must be the same for each mutualisation notice issued in
respect of a relevant payment which a defaulting supplier failed to pay.

17.5

A mutualisation notice may only be issued where the revenue collection
counterparty is of the opinion that it will not hold any collateral provided
by the defaulting supplier by the 5th working day after the day on which the
revenue collection counterparty intends to issue that notice.

17.6

Where the revenue collection counterparty has issued a mutualisation notice to
an electricity supplier, that supplier must pay the mutualisation amount
specified in the notice by the date specified in the notice.

17.7

Where an electricity supplier fails to pay all or part of a mutualisation
payment in accordance with paragraph  (6) , that supplier must pay the revenue
collection counterparty simple interest on any unpaid amount at the rate
specified in regulation  36(1)  from the day after the day on which the
payment should have been made.

17.8

The mutualisation amount to be stated in a mutualisation notice to be issued
to a non-defaulting supplier is the amount given by—

        D A × S R E S - E X E N D P E - A X E               where—         DA
is the amount which the defaulting supplier failed to pay;           SRES is
the amount of electricity supplied by the non-defaulting supplier in the
reference period as determined immediately before the notice is issued;
EXE is the amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by the non-defaulting
supplier in the reference period as determined immediately before the notice
is issued;           NDPE is the total amount of electricity supplied by all
non-defaulting suppliers in the reference period as determined immediately
before the notice is issued; and           AXE is the total amount of EII
excluded electricity supplied by all non-defaulting suppliers in the reference
period as determined immediately before the notice is issued.

17.9

In this regulation—

17.9.a

“ collateral ” is to be construed in accordance with regulation  19(7) ;

17.9.b

“ relevant payment ” means any payment which an electricity supplier is
required to make by virtue of regulation  7(1) ,  8(2) ,  10(1) ,  13(3) ,
16(3)(a)  or  17(6) ;

17.9.c

the reference period is the most recent period, occurring before the
mutualisation notice (to which the reference period relates) has been issued,
of 30 consecutive days in respect of which the BSCCo has carried out an
Initial Volume Allocation Run; and

17.9.d

the amount of electricity supplied by an electricity supplier in a reference
period is the amount of electricity which the BSCCo determines, on the basis
of the most recent BSC volume allocation run which the BSCCo has carried out
in relation to each day in that period, as the amount of electricity supplied
by that supplier in that reference period.

##### Repayment of mutualised amounts

18

18.1

Where the revenue collection counterparty has issued a mutualisation notice in
respect of a failure of an electricity supplier (“the defaulting supplier”) to
make a relevant payment (“the relevant default”) and subsequently recovers any
amount from that supplier in respect of that failure, that amount must be paid
to electricity suppliers who were required to pay mutualisation amounts in
respect of that failure in accordance with paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) .

18.2

The amount which the revenue collection counterparty must, by virtue of
paragraph  (1) , pay an electricity supplier who was required to pay a
mutualisation amount (“the non-defaulting supplier”) is the amount given by—

        A R × S U A U               where—         AR is the amount recovered
from the defaulting supplier in respect of the relevant default, including any
interest paid by the defaulting supplier in respect of that failure;
SU is the mutualisation amount which the non-defaulting supplier was required
to pay in respect of the relevant default; and           AU is the total
amount of mutualisation payments which were required to be paid by all non-
defaulting suppliers in respect of the relevant default.

18.3

Any amount which the revenue collection counterparty is required to pay by
virtue of paragraph  (1)  must be paid by the 15th working day after the day
on which it recovers the amount to be paid.

18.4

In paragraph  (1) , “ relevant payment ” means any payment which an
electricity supplier is required to make by virtue of regulation  7(1) ,  8(2)
,  10(1) ,  13(3) ,  16(3)(a)  or  17(6) .

#### Collateral

##### Requirement to provide collateral

19

19.1

This regulation applies at all times after an electricity supplier makes an
electricity supply in a quarterly obligation period in respect of which it is
required to make an interim rate payment.

19.2

Where this regulation applies the supplier must ensure that, on any day, the
revenue collection counterparty holds sufficient collateral from the supplier
to meet the supplier’s collateral requirement for that day.

19.3

The supplier’s collateral requirement for a day (“ the relevant day ”) is
determined by reference to the most recent period of 21 consecutive days prior
to the last working day before the relevant day, in respect of which the BSCCo
had carried out a BSC volume allocation run (“ the relevant period ”).

19.4

For each day in the relevant period, the amount of electricity supplied by the
supplier on that day, less any amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by
that supplier on that day, (both as determined on the last working day before
the relevant day), multiplied by the interim levy rate which applies in
relation to the relevant day, gives a relevant amount.

19.5

The sum of the relevant amounts is the supplier’s collateral requirement for
the relevant day.

19.6

The supplier is not to be treated as having breached its obligation under
paragraph  (2)  where, after the first occasion on which it provided
sufficient collateral to the revenue collection counterparty to meet its
collateral requirement for a day—

19.6.a

the amount of that supplier’s collateral held by the revenue collection
counterparty fell below that supplier’s collateral requirement for a
subsequent day; and

19.6.b

by the second working day (“the cure day”) after that subsequent day, the
supplier provides sufficient collateral to the revenue collection counterparty
to meet its collateral requirement for the cure day.

19.7

Collateral may be provided in the form of—

19.7.a

cash;

19.7.b

appropriate letters of credit; or

19.7.c

a combination of the two.

19.8

For the purposes of this regulation—

19.8.a

collateral is held by the revenue collection counterparty where it is provided
to the revenue collection counterparty and not called (within the meaning of
regulation  21 );

19.8.b

the amount of electricity supplied by a supplier on any day is the amount
which the BSCCo determines, on the basis of the most recent BSC volume
allocation run carried out by the BSCCo in relation to that day, as the amount
of electricity that the supplier supplied on that day; and

19.8.c

the interim levy rate which applies in relation to a day is the interim levy
rate which applies in relation to that day by virtue of regulation  7(3) .

19.9

Regulation  20  makes further provision about appropriate letters of credit.

##### Appropriate letters of credit

20

20.1

For the purposes of regulation  19 , a letter of credit is appropriate if—

20.1.a

it is issued by a person who holds a required rating; and

20.1.b

it is provided on terms which the revenue collection counterparty considers
are appropriate.

20.2

The terms which the revenue collection counterparty may consider are
appropriate under paragraph  (1) (b)  include terms relating to—

20.2.a

the manner in which any demand for payment under a letter of credit is to be
made;

20.2.b

the manner in which any payment under a letter of credit is to be made; and

20.2.c

requirements about the holding of funds to meet demands for payment under a
letter of credit.

20.3

Where an electricity supplier has provided the revenue collection counterparty
with a letter of credit issued by a person who ceases to hold a required
rating that letter will not constitute an appropriate letter of credit from
the 10th working day after the day on which that person ceases to hold that
rating.

20.4

Subject to paragraph  (5) , a person holds a required rating if that person
has been assessed by—

20.4.a

Fitch Ratings as having a short term debt rating of “F1” or better;

20.4.b

Moody’s as having a short term debt rating of “P-1” or better; or

20.4.c

Standard and Poor’s as having a short term debt rating of “A-1” or better.

20.5

Where the revenue collection counterparty is of the opinion that the
requirement that appropriate letters of credit must be issued by persons
holding a short term debt rating mentioned in paragraph  (4) (a)  to  (c)  is
too onerous in the circumstances, and subject to having regard to its duty
under regulation  28(1) , it may issue a notice to BM registered electricity
suppliers specifying alternative short term debt ratings, and that notice
shall remain in force until such time as it is withdrawn.

20.6

In paragraph  (5) , “ BM registered electricity suppliers ” means electricity
suppliers who have a BM Unit registered as at the day before the date the
notice is issued.

20.7

The revenue collection counterparty may withdraw a notice under paragraph  (5)
(“the first notice”) by issuing a further notice (“the withdrawal notice”) to
electricity suppliers who were sent the first notice setting out the date from
which the first notice is to be withdrawn (that date being no earlier than 10
working days after the day on which the withdrawal notice is issued).

20.8

The revenue collection counterparty must, before the first revenue collection
contract is entered into, publish a document setting out the terms of letters
of credit which it is likely to regard as appropriate for the purposes of
paragraph  (1) (b) , and must keep any such document under review and publish
any revision from time to time.

20.9

In this regulation—

      “ Fitch Ratings ” means Fitch Ratings Limited (registered company number
01316230);           “ Moody’s ” means the corporation known as Moody’s
Investors Service Inc., incorporated in the US State of Delaware with the file
number 0577904;           “ Standard and Poor’s ” means the corporation known
as Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, incorporated in the US State of
Delaware with the file number 4621989.

##### Calling of collateral

21

21.1

Collateral provided by an electricity supplier is called by the revenue
collection counterparty where the revenue collection counterparty issues a
notice to that supplier which sets out the amount of collateral which is to be
called.

21.2

The revenue collection counterparty may issue a notice under paragraph  (1)
to an electricity supplier if that supplier has failed to make a relevant
payment and—

21.2.a

2 working days have passed since the day on which that supplier should have
made that payment; or

21.2.b

the revenue collection counterparty is of the opinion that there is no
prospect of that supplier making that payment by 2 working days after the day
on which that supplier should have made that payment.

21.3

The amount of collateral which may be called by the revenue collection
counterparty where a supplier has failed to make a relevant payment is the
lesser of—

21.3.a

the amount of collateral provided by that supplier; or

21.3.b

the amount of that relevant payment or, where there is more than one relevant
payment which that supplier has failed to make and in respect of which a
notice under paragraph  (1)  could be issued, the sum of all relevant payments
in respect of which a notice under paragraph  (1)  could be issued.

21.4

Where the whole or part of a supplier’s collateral which was provided in the
form of cash has been called by the revenue collection counterparty, that
amount is to be treated as a payment made by that supplier to the revenue
collection counterparty at the time that collateral was called.

21.5

Where the whole or part of a supplier’s collateral which was provided in the
form of a letter of credit has been called by the revenue collection
counterparty—

21.5.a

the revenue collection counterparty must take steps to demand payment from the
person who provided the letter in the amount of the lesser of—

21.5.a.i

the amount which can be demanded under that letter, or

21.5.a.ii

the amount of collateral which has been called; and

21.5.b

the amount which has been paid to the revenue collection counterparty under
that letter is to be treated as a payment by that supplier to the revenue
collection counterparty made at the time that amount is received by the
revenue collection counterparty.

21.6

In this regulation “ relevant payment ” means any payment which a supplier is
required to make by virtue of regulation  7(1) ,  8(2) ,  10(1) ,  13(3) ,
16(3)(a)  or  17(6)  which has not been made by that supplier by the time that
payment should have been made, and which remains unpaid.

##### Withdrawal of collateral and payment of interest

22

22.1

Where the collateral provided by an electricity supplier and held by the
revenue collection counterparty is more than that supplier’s collateral
requirement, that supplier may make a request that the revenue collection
counterparty repay or return as much collateral as exceeds the supplier’s
collateral requirement by giving a notice to the revenue collection
counterparty.

22.2

Where a request under paragraph  (1)  has been received by the revenue
collection counterparty, it must, before the 2nd working day after the day on
which the request was received, repay or return the lesser of—

22.2.a

the amount requested by the supplier; or

22.2.b

the amount of collateral which the revenue collection counterparty determines
exceeds that supplier’s collateral requirement at the time the payment is to
be made.

22.3

Where a supplier has provided collateral in the form of cash and the revenue
collection counterparty holds that sum in an account which bears interest, it
must pay to that supplier an amount equal to any such interest earned in
relation to that sum within 15 working days of receiving that interest.

### Operational costs

#### The operational costs levy

23

23.1

An electricity supplier must make a payment (“an operational cost payment”) to
the revenue collection counterparty for each day that supplier makes an
electricity supply during an operational cost period.

23.2

The amount of an operational cost payment to be paid by a supplier in respect
of a day is equal to the amount of electricity supplied by that supplier on
that day, less any amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by that
supplier on that day, multiplied by the operational levy rate.

23.3

The revenue collection counterparty must, as soon as reasonably practicable
after the BSCCo has carried out an Initial Volume Allocation Run in respect of
a day in an operational cost period, issue a notice to each electricity
supplier who supplied electricity on that day stating the operational cost
payment which the supplier to whom the notice is issued must pay in respect of
that day.

23.4

An electricity supplier must make an operational cost payment in respect of a
day by the operational cost payment date in relation to that payment.

23.5

The operational cost payment date in relation to an operational cost payment
is the 5th working day after the day on which the revenue collection
counterparty has issued a notice under paragraph  (3)  to the supplier who
must make that payment.

23.6

Where an electricity supplier fails to make an operational cost payment by the
operational cost payment date in relation to that payment, that supplier must
pay the revenue collection counterparty simple interest on any unpaid amount
at the rate specified in regulation  36(1)  from the day after the operational
cost payment date.

23.7

For the purposes of this regulation—

23.7.a

the operational levy rate is as follows—

23.7.a.i

£0.0020 per megawatt hour for any day before 1st April 2023;

23.7.a.ii

£0.0025 per megawatt hour for any day during for the period that begins with
1st April 2023 and ends on 31st March 2024;

23.7.a.iii

£0.0028 per megawatt hour for any day after 31st March 2024;

23.7.b

the amount of electricity supplied by an electricity supplier on a particular
day is the amount of electricity which the BSCCo determines, on the basis of
an Initial Volume Allocation Run carried out in relation to that day, as the
amount of electricity which that supplier supplied on that day.

#### Repayment of excess

24

24.1

The revenue collection counterparty must determine, as soon as reasonably
practicable after the conclusion of an operational cost period, whether the
amounts received under regulation  23(1)  in respect of that period and
received by virtue of regulation  23(6)  during that period are greater than
the costs which it incurred in respect of the relevant period in relation to
that operational cost period.

24.2

Where the revenue collection counterparty determines that those amounts are
greater than those costs it must pay the difference to electricity suppliers
as soon as reasonably practicable after making that determination.

24.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty must make a payment under paragraph
(2) , the amount which the revenue collection counterparty must pay to an
electricity supplier in respect of an operational cost period is the amount
given by—

        R A - C O × S E - E X S T - X T               where—         RA is the
sum of—         any amounts received by the revenue collection counterparty
under regulation  23(1)  in respect of that period,           any amounts
received by the revenue collection counterparty by virtue of regulation  23(6)
during that period, and           any amounts which were paid to the revenue
collection counterparty during the relevant period for the purpose of
compensating it for any costs incurred by it in respect of a breach of any
duty or obligation owed to it (whether or not under these Regulations);
CO is the costs the revenue collection counterparty determines it has incurred
in respect of the relevant period;       SE is the amount of electricity
supplied by the supplier in that period;       EX is the amount of EII
excluded electricity supplied by that supplier in that period;       ST is the
total amount of electricity supplied by all suppliers in that period; and
XT is the total amount of EII excluded electricity supplied by all suppliers
in that period.

24.4

For the purposes of paragraph  (3)  the amount of electricity supplied by a
supplier in an operational cost period is the amount of electricity which the
BSCCo determines, on the basis of Initial Volume Allocation Runs, as the
amount of electricity that supplier supplied in that period.

24.5

In this regulation—

24.5.a

“ costs ” means any costs incurred by the revenue collection counterparty in
connection with the performance by it of any function conferred on it by or by
virtue of Part 2 of the Act; and

24.5.b

“ relevant period ” in relation to an operational cost period means—

24.5.b.i

in relation to the first operational cost period, the period beginning with
the coming into force of these Regulations and ending with the day the first
operational cost period ends; or

24.5.b.ii

in relation to any other operational cost period, that operational cost
period.

### Miscellaneous

#### Enforcement and disputes

##### Enforcement of requirements

25

25.1

Any requirement of an electricity supplier under these Regulations is
enforceable by the Authority as if any such requirement was a relevant
requirement on a regulated person for the purposes of section 25 of the
Electricity Act 1989 .

25.2

Where the revenue collection counterparty determines that an electricity
supplier has not complied with any requirement to pay an amount required under
these Regulations it may issue a notice to that supplier setting out—

25.2.a

the amount which the revenue collection counterparty determines that supplier
should have paid;

25.2.b

the basis on which the revenue collection counterparty determined the amount;

25.2.c

the date on which the amount should have been paid; and

25.2.d

the rate, if any, of interest which applies to the amount.

25.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty determines that an electricity
supplier has not complied with a requirement to ensure that the revenue
collection counterparty holds sufficient collateral under regulation  19(2) ,
it may issue a notice to that supplier which specifies the amount of
collateral which the supplier would have to provide to meet that supplier’s
collateral requirement for the day on which the notice is issued.

25.4

Where the revenue collection counterparty has issued a notice to a supplier
under paragraph  (3)  that supplier is required to pay the amount specified in
the notice to the revenue collection counterparty in cash by the next working
day after the notice has been issued.

25.5

Where an electricity supplier makes a payment under paragraph  (4)  the amount
of that payment constitutes collateral held by the revenue collection
counterparty for the purposes of regulation  19 .

25.6

Where the revenue collection counterparty issues a notice to a supplier under
paragraph  (2)  or  (3) —

25.6.a

it must also provide a copy of that notice to the Authority; and

25.6.b

it may publish a copy of that notice, or a summary of that notice.

##### Dispute notices

26

26.1

An electricity supplier may dispute any determination made by the revenue
collection counterparty under these Regulations, other than a determination
made under or by virtue of regulation  27  of these Regulations, by giving a
notice to the revenue collection counterparty setting out—

26.1.a

the determination the supplier is disputing; and

26.1.b

the basis on which the supplier disputes the determination.

26.2

For the purposes of paragraph  (1) , a dispute about a determination made by
the revenue collection counterparty includes a dispute about the failure of
the revenue collection counterparty to make a determination.

26.3

A notice under paragraph  (1)  must be given by an electricity supplier before
the later of—

26.3.a

the 28th day after the day on which the determination was made by the revenue
collection counterparty;

26.3.b

in the case of a determination in respect of which the revenue collection
counterparty must issue a notice, the 28th day after the day on which that
notice was issued;

26.3.c

in the case of a dispute about the failure of the revenue collection
counterparty to make a determination, the 28th day after the day on which the
revenue collection counterparty should have made the relevant determination
which is in dispute.

26.4

An electricity supplier may not dispute a determination if and to the extent
that the dispute is about a determination, made by the BSCCo, of an amount of
electricity supplied (whether by that supplier or any other supplier).

26.5

Where an electricity supplier has given a notice under paragraph  (1)  in
respect of a determination, that determination still has effect
notwithstanding the giving of that notice.

##### Determination of disputes

27

27.1

Where the revenue collection counterparty receives a notice under regulation
26(1)  (“a dispute notice”) about a determination (or a failure to make a
determination) under any provision of these Regulations (“a relevant
provision”) it must, by the 28th day after the day on which it receives that
notice either—

27.1.a

reject the notice; or

27.1.b

accept the notice (in full or in part) and make such determination under that
provision as it thinks is necessary in consequence.

27.2

Whether the revenue collection counterparty rejects or accepts a dispute
notice, it must, on the same day, issue a notice (“a decision notice”) to the
person who gave that dispute notice, setting out its decision and the reasons
for it.

27.3

Where the revenue collection counterparty makes a determination under a
relevant provision by virtue of paragraph  (1) (b)  it must, on the same day,
issue to each electricity supplier who may be affected by the making of that
determination a notice which sets out that determination.

27.4

Where the revenue collection counterparty makes a determination under a
relevant provision by virtue of paragraph  (1) (b)  and—

27.4.a

that provision requires the determination to be made by a particular time
which has passed, that determination has effect notwithstanding that
requirement;

27.4.b

that provision requires something to be done by it by a particular time which
has passed, that thing must be done as soon as reasonably practicable after
the determination.

27.5

Where the revenue collection counterparty makes a determination under a
relevant provision by virtue of paragraph  (1) (b)  and that provision
requires an electricity supplier to make a payment, that payment must be made
(notwithstanding what that provision says about the time by which a payment
must be made) by the date specified by the revenue collection counterparty in
the notice issued under paragraph  (3)  to that supplier, that date being no
earlier than—

27.5.a

the date by which, in the opinion of the revenue collection counterparty, it
would be reasonably practicable for that electricity supplier to make that
payment; or

27.5.b

the earliest date by which that supplier would have had to have made that
payment if the determination had been made at the time the determination which
is the subject of the dispute notice was or (in the case where the revenue
collection counterparty failed to make a determination) should have been made.

27.6

Where an electricity supplier has paid an amount to the revenue collection
counterparty, or the revenue collection counterparty has paid an amount to
that electricity supplier, and a determination made under a relevant provision
by virtue of paragraph  (1) (b)  means that that amount should not have been
paid, that amount must be returned to the person who paid it by—

27.6.a

the 5th working day after the day on which the notice issued in respect of
that determination was issued under paragraph  (3) ;

27.6.b

where the revenue collection counterparty is of the opinion that it would not
be reasonably practicable for that amount to be returned by that date, such
later date as the revenue collection counterparty specifies in the notice
issued under paragraph  (3)  to that supplier in respect of that
determination.

##### Duties of the revenue collection counterparty to enforce and notify

28

28.1

The revenue collection counterparty must exercise its functions in the manner
best calculated to ensure the collection of all amounts which are required to
be paid or provided by electricity suppliers under these Regulations.

28.2

If the revenue collection counterparty considers it may be, or become, unable
to fulfil its functions, it must promptly notify the Secretary of State and
must provide such further details as the Secretary of State may request.

28.3

In paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  “ functions ” includes—

28.3.a

any function conferred by these Regulations;

28.3.b

the recovery of any sum as a civil debt by virtue of section 19 of the Act;
and

28.3.c

any duties or obligations of the revenue collection counterparty under any
revenue collection contract.

28.4

The revenue collection counterparty must take such steps as it considers
necessary to ensure that electricity suppliers are—

28.4.a

informed of their liabilities under these Regulations; and

28.4.b

provided with information about liabilities which they may incur under these
Regulations.

28.5

Where the revenue collection counterparty writes-off any debt owed to it by an
electricity supplier, it must issue a notice of that fact to every electricity
supplier who was required to make a payment under regulation  17(6)  in
relation to that debt.

28.6

The revenue collection counterparty must publish information which relates to
its estimates of the liabilities of electricity suppliers arising during three
consecutive quarterly obligation periods (“the projection period”).

28.7

The revenue collection counterparty must publish information under paragraph
(6) —

28.7.a

no later than 30 days before the start of the first quarterly obligation
period to which that information relates; or

28.7.b

where the revenue collection counterparty reasonably believes that it has
received insufficient information from the Authority for the purpose of
publishing information under paragraph (6), as soon as reasonably practicable
following the receipt of the information the revenue collection counterparty
requires.

28.8

The information published under paragraph  (6)  must include—

28.8.a

an estimate of the interim levy rate (see regulation  5(1) ) that would apply
to each quarterly obligation period during the projection period; and

28.8.b

an estimate of the total reserve amount for each quarterly obligation period
during the projection period.

##### Notices and publications

29

29.1

Where the revenue collection counterparty is permitted or required to issue a
notice (including a copy of a notice) to a person, that notice must be in
writing and is issued if it has been sent (by or on behalf of the revenue
collection counterparty) by post or electronic means to that person’s proper
address.

29.2

In paragraph  (1) , “ proper address ” means—

29.2.a

in the case of a body corporate—

29.2.a.i

the registered or principal office of that person, or

29.2.a.ii

an email address provided (and not withdrawn) by that person;

29.2.b

in the case of a partnership—

29.2.b.i

the principal office of the partnership, or

29.2.b.ii

an email address provided (and not withdrawn) by—

29.2.b.ii.aa

that partnership,

29.2.b.ii.bb

a partner, or

29.2.b.ii.cc

a person having control or management of the partnership business;

29.2.c

in the case of any other person, that person’s last known address, which
includes an email address (where that email address was provided, and has not
been withdrawn, by that person).

29.3

So as to enable the revenue collection counterparty to discharge its functions
under these Regulations, an electricity supplier must, within 2 working days
of first making an electricity supply after the first payment period start
date, provide an email address to the revenue collection counterparty at which
it can be contacted, and if that supplier subsequently changes that email
address it must notify the revenue collection counterparty of that change.

29.4

Where the revenue collection counterparty issues a notice to an electricity
supplier under regulation  5(3)(a)  or  (b)  it must set out an address and an
email address for correspondence in that notice.

29.5

An electricity supplier may give a notice to the revenue collection
counterparty by sending it by post or electronic means to the address or email
address contained in the most recent notice issued to that supplier under
regulation  5(3)(a)  or  (b) .

29.6

Where the revenue collection counterparty is required to publish any
information under these Regulations the revenue collection counterparty must
publish that information in such manner as the revenue collection counterparty
considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing it to the attention of
persons who may be affected by that information.

#### Effect of payment and interest

##### Set-off of payments by the revenue collection counterparty

30

30.1

This regulation applies where—

30.1.a

the revenue collection counterparty is liable to make a payment (“a relevant
payment”) to an electricity supplier under these Regulations by a date (“ the
relevant date ”);

30.1.b

that supplier is liable to pay determined payments; and

30.1.c

the revenue collection counterparty considers that there is a high degree of
likelihood that the electricity supplier will fail to pay a determined
payment.

30.2

Where this regulation applies the revenue collection counterparty may retain
all or part of the relevant payment, subject to paragraph  (3) .

30.3

The maximum amount the revenue collection counterparty may retain under
paragraph (2) is the amount equal to the sum of all determined payments which
the supplier is liable to pay at the relevant date.

30.4

Where the revenue collection counterparty retains all or part of a relevant
payment, the amount retained is to be treated as if it was a payment made to
it by the supplier on the relevant date.

30.5

Where the revenue collection counterparty has retained all or part of a
relevant payment under paragraph  (2) , it must, by the relevant date, issue a
notice to the supplier stating the amount which has been retained.

30.6

For the purposes of paragraph  (1) , a determined payment is a payment—

30.6.a

which a supplier must make to the revenue collection counterparty by virtue of
these Regulations within 5 working days of the relevant date;

30.6.b

which the supplier has not yet made; and

30.6.c

the amount of which has been determined.

30.7

The amount of a payment which a supplier must make by virtue of these
Regulations has been determined if—

30.7.a

in the case of a payment which is calculated by reference to an amount of
electricity determined by the BSCCo on the basis of a BSC volume allocation
run, the BSCCo has carried out that BSC volume allocation run;

30.7.b

in the case of a payment where the amount of that payment must be determined
by the revenue collection counterparty in accordance with these Regulations,
the revenue collection counterparty has determined the amount of that payment;

30.7.c

in the case of a requirement to pay an amount of interest, the day by which
that interest must be paid has passed.

30.8

For the purposes of this regulation, a requirement to provide collateral under
regulation  19(2)  is not a requirement to make a payment by virtue of these
Regulations.

##### Netting of payments by the revenue collection counterparty

31

31.1

This regulation applies where—

31.1.a

the revenue collection counterparty must pay an amount to an electricity
supplier under these Regulations by a certain date (the “counterparty
payment”); and

31.1.b

that supplier must pay an amount to the revenue collection counterparty by the
same date (the “supplier payment”).

31.2

Where the counterparty payment is more than the supplier payment, payment of
the counterparty payment less the supplier payment discharges—

31.2.a

the revenue collection counterparty’s obligation to make the counterparty
payment, and

31.2.b

the supplier’s obligation to make the supplier payment.

31.3

Where the counterparty payment is less than the supplier payment, payment of
the supplier payment less the counterparty payment discharges—

31.3.a

the supplier’s obligation to make the supplier payment, and

31.3.b

the revenue collection counterparty’s obligation to make the counterparty
payment.

31.4

Where the counterparty payment is equal to the supplier payment—

31.4.a

the revenue collection counterparty’s obligation to make the counterparty
payment is discharged, and

31.4.b

the supplier’s obligation to make the supplier payment is discharged.

##### Discharge of obligations by payment

32

32.1

This regulation applies where an electricity supplier makes a payment to the
revenue collection counterparty for the purpose of discharging its relevant
obligations but that payment is insufficient to do so.

32.2

The revenue collection counterparty must use the payment—

32.2.a

first, to discharge (in whole or in part) any relevant obligation of the
supplier arising under regulation  23(1) ;

32.2.b

where part of the payment remains, secondly, to discharge any relevant
obligation of the supplier which is not one arising under regulation  23(1) ;
and

32.2.c

where part of the payment still remains, thirdly, to discharge any relevant
obligation of the supplier to make a payment of interest.

32.3

Where more than one relevant obligation falls within a subparagraph of
paragraph  (2) , the revenue collection counterparty must determine the order
in which those obligations are to be discharged.

32.4

On the day on which the revenue collection counterparty uses the payment it
must issue a notice to the supplier which sets out the details of—

32.4.a

any relevant obligation which has been wholly discharged;

32.4.b

any relevant obligation which has been partially discharged, and the extent to
which it has been discharged; and

32.4.c

any relevant obligation which has not been discharged.

32.5

For the purposes of this regulation—

32.5.a

any amount treated as a payment by an electricity supplier to the revenue
collection counterparty by virtue of regulation  21(4)  or  (5)  or regulation
30(4)  is to be treated as a payment made by that supplier to the revenue
collection counterparty for the purpose of discharging its relevant
obligations; and

32.5.b

a requirement to provide collateral under regulation  19(2)  is not a
requirement to make a payment by virtue of these Regulations.

32.6

In this regulation—

      “ payment of interest ” means a payment of interest which is required to
be made by virtue of regulation  7(6) ,  8(7) ,  10(2) ,  13(7) ,  16(5) ,
17(7)  or  23(6) ;           “ relevant obligation ”, in relation to an
electricity supplier, means any obligation of that supplier to make a payment
under these Regulations where the date by which that payment should have been
made has passed.

##### Use of payments

33

33.1

Where the revenue collection counterparty receives a payment from an
electricity supplier under regulation  23 , the revenue collection
counterparty may only use that payment for the purposes of meeting its costs.

33.2

Where the revenue collection counterparty receives a payment from an
electricity supplier under any regulation, other than regulation  23 , the
revenue collection counterparty may only use that payment for the purposes of—

33.2.a

making revenue collection counterparty payments;

33.2.b

making any repayments due to the Secretary of State in relation to any SoS
funds which the revenue collection counterparty must repay to the Secretary of
State at such time and in such amount as agreed between the Secretary of State
and the revenue collection counterparty; or

33.2.c

making payments to electricity suppliers under these Regulations.

33.3

In paragraph  (1) ,“ costs ” means any costs incurred by the revenue
collection counterparty in connection with the performance by it of any
function conferred on it by or by virtue of Part 2 of the Act.

##### Apportioning sums to revenue collection contracts

34

34.1

This regulation applies where the revenue collection counterparty is unable
fully to meet its liabilities under, or pursuant to, a revenue collection
contract.

34.2

The revenue collection counterparty is unable fully to meet its liabilities
under, or pursuant to, a revenue collection contract when the total amount
held by the revenue collection counterparty at any time is less than the total
amount of revenue collection counterparty payments it must pay at that time.

34.3

Where this regulation applies, the amount which may be used to make revenue
collection counterparty payments in relation to a particular revenue
collection contract is the amount given by—

        A H × O G O A               where—         AH is the total amount held
by the revenue collection counterparty;           OG is the amount of revenue
collection counterparty payments owed in relation to that revenue collection
contract; and           OA is the total amount of revenue collection
counterparty payments which the revenue collection counterparty owes.

34.4

An amount is held by the revenue collection counterparty if it is in
possession of that amount and—

34.4.a

it is an amount paid to it by electricity suppliers under these Regulations,
other than an amount paid under or by virtue of regulation  23(1)  or  (6) ,
or provided under regulation  19(2) ;

34.4.b

it is an amount treated as a payment by an electricity supplier to the revenue
collection counterparty by virtue of regulation  21(4)  or  (5)  or regulation
30(3) ;

34.4.c

it is an amount of collateral which was provided in the form of cash and the
revenue collection counterparty is entitled to call that collateral by virtue
of regulation  21 ;

34.4.d

it is an amount received as a RCC party payment by the revenue collection
counterparty; or

34.4.e

it is any other amount provided to the revenue collection counterparty for the
purpose of making revenue collection counterparty payments.

##### Application of apportionment to revenue collection contracts

35

35.1

This regulation applies where a revenue collection contract contains a term
that makes reference to amounts allocated pursuant to these Regulations
(however that revenue collection contract describes these Regulations).

35.2

Where both this regulation and regulation  34  apply, the amount allocated to
that revenue collection contract, for the purposes of that term, is the amount
calculated under regulation  34(3)  which may be used by the revenue
collection counterparty to make revenue collection counterparty payments in
relation to that revenue collection contract.

35.3

In all other cases where this regulation applies, the amount allocated to a
revenue collection contract, for the purposes of that term, is the amount
which is owed by the revenue collection counterparty in relation to that
revenue collection contract.

##### Interest

36

36.1

For the purposes of regulations  7(6) ,  8(7) ,  10(2) ,  13(7) ,  16(5) ,
17(7)  and  23(6) , the rate of interest is 5 per cent per annum over the
relevant Bank of England base rate.

36.2

The relevant Bank of England base rate—

36.2.a

in respect of interest which starts to run on or after 1st January and before
1st July in any year, is the Bank of England base rate in force on 31st
December in the previous year; and

36.2.b

in respect of interest which starts to run on or after 1st July in any year,
is the Bank of England base rate in force on 30th June in that year.

36.3

Any requirement to pay interest by virtue of these Regulations is a
requirement to pay the amount of that interest by the first working day after
the day on which that interest has accrued.

36.4

In this regulation, “ Bank of England base rate ” means—

36.4.a

the rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England as the official dealing rate, being the rate at which the Bank
is willing to enter into transactions for providing short term liquidity in
the money markets; or

36.4.b

where an order under section 19 of the Bank of England Act 1998  is in force,
any equivalent rate determined by the Treasury under that section.

### Directions to offer to contract

#### Directions under section 18 of the Act

37

37.1

A direction given by the Secretary of State to a revenue collection
counterparty under section 18(1) of the Act must—

37.1.a

be in writing and dated;

37.1.b

specify the full contract terms on which the revenue collection counterparty
is to offer to contract, in the form of a draft revenue collection contract;

37.1.c

prohibit the revenue collection counterparty from modifying those terms when
offering to contract with a designated nuclear company unless the revenue
collection counterparty has received the prior written consent of the
Secretary of State to the modification;

37.1.d

specify a date by which the revenue collection counterparty must comply with
the direction;

37.1.e

specify the period for which the revenue collection counterparty must keep the
offer open for acceptance (following the expiry of which the offer lapses).

37.2

In paragraph  (1) (c) , “ modifying ” includes making additions, omissions,
amendments or substitutions.

37.3

The Secretary of State must give a copy of the direction to the designated
nuclear company specified in the direction (“the specified person”) as soon as
reasonably practicable after the direction has been given to the revenue
collection counterparty.

#### Form and content of specified terms

38

For the purposes of regulation  37(1)(b)  the terms must include terms that
set out—

38.a

the circumstances in which the revenue collection counterparty must make
payments to the specified person;

38.b

any circumstances in which the revenue collection counterparty is not required
to make payments to the specified person;

38.c

the circumstances in which the specified person must make payments to the
revenue collection counterparty;

38.d

any circumstances in which the specified person is not required to make
payments to the revenue collection counterparty;

38.e

where the specified person’s relevant licence requires that payments under
paragraph (a) or (c) are to be calculated in accordance with amounts notified
to the revenue collection counterparty by the Authority, that payments must be
calculated in accordance with that requirement;

38.f

where the specified person’s relevant licence requires that payments are not
required to be paid by the revenue collection counterparty to the specified
person (or vice versa), that the circumstances set out under paragraph (b) or
(d) must be in accordance with that requirement;

38.g

the periods within which amounts payable by virtue of paragraph  (a)  or  (c)
must be paid;

38.h

the circumstances in which the specified person is required to receive the
consent of the revenue collection counterparty before transferring the
contract or assigning its rights or obligations under the contract;

38.i

a mechanism for the sharing of information between the parties to the
contract; and

38.j

details of any information included in the terms that is confidential
information for the purposes of regulation 40(3).

#### Revocation of directions

39

39.1

The Secretary of State may by notice (“ a revocation notice ”) revoke a
direction given under section 18(1) of the Act (“the direction”).

39.2

A revocation notice must—

39.2.a

be in writing and be dated;

39.2.b

identify the direction to which it applies; and

39.2.c

be given to the revenue collection counterparty and the relevant specified
person.

39.3

Where the Secretary of State gives a revocation notice under paragraph  (1) ,
the revenue collection counterparty must immediately withdraw any offer to
contract that it has made in compliance with the direction.

39.4

A revocation notice has no effect if it is given after the specified person
has accepted an offer to contract on the specified terms made by the revenue
collection counterparty in compliance with the direction.

#### Publication of revenue collection contracts

40

40.1

If a specified person accepts an offer to contract on the specified terms, the
revenue collection counterparty must publish the resulting revenue collection
contract.

40.2

The revenue collection counterparty must exclude any confidential information
from the revenue collection contract that is published.

40.3

For the purposes of paragraph  (2) , “ confidential information ” means
information which—

40.3.a

is identified in the specified terms as information to which paragraph  (4)
applies; and

40.3.b

the specified terms provide must not be disclosed.

40.4

This paragraph applies to information if, in the opinion of the Secretary of
State at the time the relevant direction is given, it is information—

40.4.a

which constitutes a trade secret;

40.4.b

the disclosure of which would or would be likely to prejudice the commercial
interests of any person; or

40.4.c

the disclosure of which would constitute a breach of confidence actionable by
any person.

#### Interpretation of Part 5

41

In this Part, “ specified person ” is to be construed in accordance with
regulation  37(3) .

### Information and advice

#### Requests for information

42

42.1

The revenue collection counterparty may request information from an
electricity supplier which the revenue collection counterparty reasonably
requires in connection with the performance of the revenue collection
counterparty’s functions.

42.2

The revenue collection counterparty may request information from a CFD
counterparty which the revenue collection counterparty reasonably requires in
connection with the revenue collection counterparty’s determination of amounts
of EII excluded electricity under these Regulations.

42.3

The Authority may request information which they reasonably require in
connection with the performance of the Authority’s functions from any of the
following persons—

42.3.a

the revenue collection counterparty;

42.3.b

the national system operator.

42.4

The Secretary of State may request information relating to revenue collection
contracts which they reasonably require in connection with the performance of
the Secretary of State’s functions from any of the following persons—

42.4.a

the revenue collection counterparty;

42.4.b

the Authority;

42.4.c

a nuclear administrator;

42.4.d

the national system operator;

42.4.e

an RCC party.

42.5

The Secretary of State may request the Authority to provide information to the
revenue collection counterparty which the Secretary of State reasonably
considers the revenue collection counterparty requires in connection with the
performance of the revenue collection counterparty’s functions.

42.6

The information which the Secretary of State may request under paragraph (5)
includes information about amounts calculated by the Authority in accordance
with an RCC party’s relevant licence.

42.7

The Secretary of State may request a nuclear administrator to provide
information to the Authority which the Secretary of State reasonably considers
the Authority requires in connection with the performance of the Authority’s
functions.

42.8

A person who receives a request under this regulation must comply with the
request within such period as the person making the request may reasonably
require.

#### Provision of information other than by request

43

43.1

This regulation applies regardless of whether a request for information under
regulation  42  has been made.

43.2

Any of the following persons may provide to the revenue collection
counterparty information which the person reasonably considers the revenue
collection counterparty requires in connection with the performance of the
revenue collection counterparty’s functions—

43.2.a

the Authority;

43.2.b

a CFD counterparty.

43.3

The revenue collection counterparty may provide to the Authority information
which the revenue collection counterparty reasonably considers the Authority
requires in connection with the performance of the Authority’s functions.

43.4

Any of the following persons may provide to the Secretary of State information
relating to revenue collection contracts which the person reasonably considers
the Secretary of State requires in connection with the performance of the
Secretary of State’s functions—

43.4.a

the revenue collection counterparty;

43.4.b

the Authority;

43.4.c

a nuclear administrator.

#### Provision of advice to the Secretary of State

44

44.1

The Secretary of State may request advice relating to revenue collection
contracts which they reasonably require in connection with the performance of
the Secretary of State’s functions from any of the following persons—

44.1.a

the revenue collection counterparty;

44.1.b

the Authority;

44.1.c

the national system operator.

44.2

A person who receives a request under paragraph  (1)  must comply with the
request within such period as the Secretary of State may reasonably require.

#### Restrictions on disclosing information or advice

45

45.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , a person who obtains information or advice under
this Part must not disclose the information or advice to another person.

45.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the disclosure of information or advice by
the person—

45.2.a

if the disclosure is required by law (including by virtue of a request for
information or advice made under this Part);

45.2.b

if the disclosure is required to comply with an order of a court or for the
purposes of any legal proceedings;

45.2.c

if the disclosure is made with the consent of the person from whom the
information or advice was obtained;

45.2.d

if the disclosure is of information that has already lawfully been made
available to the public;

45.2.e

in the case of a disclosure by the revenue collection counterparty, if the
revenue collection counterparty reasonably considers the disclosure to be
necessary in connection with the performance of the revenue collection
counterparty’s functions;

45.2.f

in the case of a disclosure by the Authority, if the Authority reasonably
considers the disclosure to be necessary in connection with the performance of
the Authority’s functions;

45.2.g

in the case of a disclosure by the Secretary of State, if the Secretary of
State reasonably considers the disclosure to be necessary in connection with
the performance of the Secretary of State’s functions.

#### Supplementary provision for Part 6

46

46.1

A requirement imposed under this Part on the revenue collection counterparty,
a CFD counterparty, the national system operator, a nuclear administrator or
an RCC party is to be treated as a relevant requirement on that person as if
they were a regulated person for the purposes of section 25 of the Electricity
Act 1989 .

46.2

A person who discloses information as a result of this Part must exercise
reasonable care as to its accuracy.

46.3

Nothing in this Part—

46.3.a

authorises or requires a disclosure of information if the disclosure would
contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, a requirement imposed under this Part is to be taken
into account);

46.3.b

requires a person to disclose information that the person does not hold and is
not entitled to obtain;

46.3.c

affects any power or duty to disclose or provide information or advice which
exists apart from this Part.

46.4

In this regulation, “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning
as in section 3(9) of the Data Protection Act 2018 .

#### Interpretation of Part 6

47

In this Part—

      “ Authority’s functions ” means—         functions conferred on the
Authority by or by virtue of the Act (including by these Regulations); and
the Authority’s functions relating to the regulation of any RCC party in
accordance with its relevant licence;                 “ CFD counterparty ”
means the person or persons designated as a counterparty for contracts for
difference in accordance with section 7 of the Energy Act 2013 ;           “
nuclear administrator ” has the meaning given in section 39(1) of the Act;
“ revenue collection counterparty’s functions ” means—         functions
conferred on the revenue collection counterparty by or by virtue of the Act
(including by these Regulations); and           duties or obligations of the
revenue collection counterparty arising under or by virtue of any revenue
collection contract to which it is a party;                 “ Secretary of
State’s functions ” means—         functions conferred on the Secretary of
State by or by virtue of the Act (including by these Regulations); and
the Secretary of State’s functions in relation to the formulation,
development, monitoring and review of energy policy.

      Callanan   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Energy Security and Net Zero     2nd March 2023

Regulation 2(5)

1

Regulation  2  has effect as if—

1.a

every reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”, except the reference
in the definition of “letter of credit” in paragraph  (1) , were to “a revenue
collection counterparty”; and

1.b

in paragraph  (1) , the words “to whom it is provided,” appeared after the
words “the revenue collection counterparty” in the definition of “letter of
credit”.

2

Regulation  3  has effect as if—

2.a

in paragraph  (1) , the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “each revenue collection counterparty”;

2.b

in paragraph  (3) , the reference to “a supplier’s RCC period contribution”
were to “a supplier’s RCC period contribution in respect of a revenue
collection counterparty”;

2.c

in paragraph  (4) , the reference to “the RCC period contribution” were to
“the RCC period contribution in respect of a revenue collection counterparty”;
and

2.d

in paragraphs  (3) (b)  and  (4) (b) , each reference to “the revenue
collection counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”.

3

Regulation  4  has effect as if—

3.a

in paragraph  (1) —

3.a.i

the reference to “the RCC period contribution” were to “the RCC period
contribution in respect of a revenue collection counterparty”; and

3.a.ii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”; and

3.b

in paragraph (3), the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were
to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

4

Regulation  5  has effect as if—

4.a

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were a reference to “a
revenue collection counterparty”; and

4.b

in relation to a revenue collection counterparty designated under section 16
of the Act on or after the first payment period start date, there is no
requirement for that revenue collection counterparty to determine an interim
levy rate in respect of the first quarterly obligation period which commences
after its designation.

5

Regulation  6  has effect as if—

5.a

in paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)  and  (3) , each reference to—

5.a.i

“the revenue collection counterparty’s” were to “each revenue collection
counterparty’s”;

5.a.ii

“the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue collection
counterparty”; and

5.a.iii

“revenue collection contracts” were to “revenue collection contracts to which
that revenue collection counterparty is a party”; and

5.b

in paragraph (4), the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were
to “a revenue collection counterparty”;

6

Regulation  7  has effect as if—

6.a

in paragraphs  (1)  and  (4) , each reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “each revenue collection counterparty”;

6.b

in paragraph  (2) —

6.b.i

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words “by
a supplier”; and

6.b.ii

the words “which that revenue collection counterparty determined and” appeared
after the words “interim levy rate”;

6.c

after paragraph  (2) , there appeared the following provision—

6.c.2A

Where a revenue collection counterparty has not determined an interim levy
rate which applies in relation to a day, there is no requirement to make an
interim rate payment to that revenue collection counterparty in respect of
that day.

;

6.d

in paragraph  (4) —

6.d.i

the reference to “The revenue collection counterparty” were to “Each revenue
collection counterparty which determines an interim rate in respect of a day
in a quarterly obligation period”;

6.d.ii

the reference to “a day in a quarterly obligation period” were to “that day”;
and

6.d.iii

the words “to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“must pay”; and

6.e

in paragraphs  (5)  and  (6) , the words “to a revenue collection
counterparty” appeared after the words “interim rate payment” and each
reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”.

7

Regulation  8  has effect as if—

7.a

in paragraph  (1) —

7.a.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “regulation applies”; and

7.a.ii

the words “in relation to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “that day” and after the words “that supplier”;

7.b

in paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) —

7.b.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “net levied interim rate payment”;

7.b.ii

the references to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

7.c

in paragraph  (4)  the reference to “The revenue collection counterparty” were
to “A revenue collection counterparty”;

7.d

in paragraph  (5) —

7.d.i

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“make payment”; and

7.d.ii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

7.e

in paragraph  (6) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and the second
reference were to “that revenue collection counterparty”;

7.f

in paragraph  (7) —

7.f.i

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the word
“make”; and

7.f.ii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

7.g

in paragraph  (8) —

7.g.i

in subparagraph (a)—

7.g.i.aa

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “in relation to a day”; and

7.g.i.bb

the words “which that revenue collection counterparty determined and” appeared
after the words “interim levy rate”; and

7.g.ii

in subparagraph  (b) —

7.g.ii.aa

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “in relation to a day”;

7.g.ii.bb

the words “to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“in respect of that day” in each place they appear; and

7.g.ii.cc

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”.

8

Regulation  9  has effect as if—

8.a

every reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were a reference to
“a revenue collection counterparty”;

8.b

in paragraph  (1) (a) , the words “by it” appeared after the words “to be
collected”;

8.c

in paragraphs  (1) (b)  and  (3) , the words “to it” appeared after the words
“reserve payment”; and

8.d

in relation to a revenue collection counterparty designated under section 16
of the Act on or after the first payment period start date there is no
requirement for that revenue collection counterparty to determine a total
reserve amount or the amount of each supplier’s reserve payment in respect of
the first quarterly obligation period which commences after its designation,
and therefore no such payments are required to be made to it in respect of
that period.

9

Regulation  10  has effect as if—

9.a

in paragraph  (1) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and the second
reference were to “that revenue collection counterparty;

9.b

in paragraph  (2) —

9.b.i

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“reserve payment”; and

9.b.ii

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”; and

9.c

in paragraph  (3) —

9.c.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “in respect of the relevant period”; and

9.c.ii

the words “determined by that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “total reserve amount for that period”.

10

Regulation  11  has effect as if every reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

11

Regulation  12  has effect as if—

11.a

in paragraph  (1) —

11.a.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “(“the rate period”)”; and

11.a.ii

every reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

11.b

in paragraph  (2) —

11.b.i

the words “by a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“paragraph  (1) ”, and

11.b.ii

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

11.c

in paragraph  (3) , the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “a revenue collection counterparty”; and

11.d

in paragraph  (4) —

11.d.i

the words “determined by a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the
words “adjusted interim levy rate”; and

11.d.ii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”.

12

Regulation  13  has effect as if—

12.a

in paragraph  (1) —

12.a.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “the quarterly obligation period” where those words appear for the
first time; and

12.a.ii

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

12.b

in paragraph (2), the references to “the revenue collection counterparty’s”
were to “that revenue collection counterparty’s”;

12.c

in paragraph  (3) —

12.c.i

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a revenue
collection counterparty”; and

12.c.ii

the words “to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“additional reserve payment”;

12.d

in paragraph  (4) —

12.d.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “An electricity supplier’s additional reserve payment”; and

12.d.ii

the words “determined by that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “the additional total reserve amount”;

12.e

in paragraph  (5) , the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “a revenue collection counterparty”; and

12.f

in paragraphs  (6)  and  (7) —

12.f.i

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“additional reserve payment”; and

12.f.ii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

13

Regulation  14  has effect as if every reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” except the reference
in paragraph (2), and the second reference in paragraph  (6) , which are to
“that revenue collection counterparty”.

14

Regulation  15  has effect as if—

14.a

in paragraph  (1) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and every subsequent
reference were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

14.b

in paragraph  (3) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and the other
reference to it were to “that revenue collection counterparty”.

15

Regulation  16  has effect as if—

15.a

in paragraph  (1) —

15.a.i

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “by a supplier” and “for that supplier”;

15.a.ii

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty’s” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty’s”; and

15.a.iii

the words “in respect of that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “RCC period contribution”;

15.b

in paragraphs  (3)  and  (5) , each reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”;

15.c

in paragraph  (3) , the words “and a revenue collection counterparty” appeared
after the words “an electricity supplier”;

15.d

in paragraph (4), the first reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “a revenue collection counterparty”;

15.e

in paragraph  (5) , the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared
after the words “reconciliation payment”;

15.f

in paragraph  (6) , the words “in relation to a revenue collection
counterparty (“the relevant counterparty”)” appeared after the words “net
levied amount for a supplier”; and

15.g

in paragraph (7)—

15.g.i

in the definition of “the supplier obligation amount”, the words “to the
relevant counterparty” appeared after each instance of the words “to make”;
and

15.g.ii

in the definition of “the counterparty obligation amount”, each reference to
“the revenue collection counterparty” were to “the relevant counterparty”.

16

Regulation  17  has effect as if—

16.a

in paragraph  (1) , the words “to a revenue collection counterparty,” appeared
after the words “make a relevant payment”;

16.b

in paragraphs  (1)  and (2), the references to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”;

16.c

in paragraph  (5) —

16.c.i

the words “by a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words “may
only be issued”; and

16.c.ii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”;

16.d

in paragraph  (6) —

16.d.i

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were a reference to “a
revenue collection counterparty”; and

16.d.ii

the words “to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“amount specified in the notice”;

16.e

in paragraph  (7) —

16.e.i

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“mutualisation payment”; and

16.e.ii

the reference in that paragraph to “the revenue collection counterparty” were
a reference to “that revenue collection counterparty”.

17

Regulation  18  has effect as if the references to “the revenue collection
counterparty” in that regulation were to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

18

Regulation  19  has effect as if—

18.a

in paragraph  (2) —

18.a.i

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “each revenue
collection counterparty”; and

18.a.ii

the words “in relation to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “for that day”;

18.b

in paragraph  (3) , the words “in relation to a revenue collection
counterparty” appeared before the words “is determined by”;

18.c

in paragraph  (4) , the words “determined by that revenue collection
counterparty” appeared after the words “interim levy rate”;

18.d

in paragraph  (6) —

18.d.i

the first reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a
revenue collection counterparty” and every other such reference were to “that
revenue collection counterparty”;

18.d.ii

the words “in relation to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared before
the words “where, after”;

18.d.iii

in subparagraphs  (a)  and  (b) , the words “in relation to that revenue
collection counterparty” appeared after the words “collateral requirement”;
and

18.e

in paragraph  (8) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and the subsequent
reference were to “that revenue collection counterparty”.

19

Regulation  20  has effect as if—

19.a

in paragraph  (1) (b) , the words “to which it is to be provided” appeared
after the words “the revenue collection counterparty”;

19.b

in paragraphs  (2) ,  (3) ,  (5) ,  (7)  and  (8) , each reference to “the
revenue collection counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty”;

19.c

in paragraph  (5) , the words “which apply to letters of credit which are to
be provided to it” appeared after the words “alternative short term debt
ratings”; and

19.d

in paragraph  (8) , the requirement to publish a document applies to a revenue
collection counterparty who was designated after the first revenue collection
contract is entered into as if the reference to “before the first revenue
collection contract is entered into” in that paragraph were to “as soon as
reasonably practicable after that revenue collection counterparty is
designated under section 16 of the Act”.

20

Regulation  21  has effect as if—

20.a

in paragraphs  (1) ,  (2) ,  (3) ,  (4)  and  (5) , the first reference to
“the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a revenue collection
counterparty” and all other references to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

20.b

the words “to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared—

20.b.i

after the words “relevant payment” in paragraph  (2) ;

20.b.ii

before the words “is the lesser of” in paragraph  (3) ;

20.b.iii

after the words “collateral provided” in paragraph  (3) (a) ; and

20.b.iv

after the words “failed to make” in paragraph  (3) (b) .

21

Regulation  22  has effect as if—

21.a

the first reference in paragraphs  (1)  and  (2) , and the reference in
paragraph  (3) , to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a revenue
collection counterparty” and every other reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

21.b

the words “in relation to that revenue collection counterparty” appeared after
the words “collateral requirement” in each place those words occur.

22

Regulation  23  has effect as if every reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “the first revenue collection counterparty designated
under section 16 of the Act”.

23

Regulation  24  has effect as if the references in paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)  and
(5) , and the first reference in paragraph  (3) , to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “the first revenue collection counterparty designated
under section 16 of the Act” and every other reference to “the revenue
collection counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”.

24

Regulation  25  has effect as if—

24.a

the first reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” in paragraphs
(2) ,  (3) , (4) and  (6)  were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and
every other reference in that regulation to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty; and

24.b

the words “to a revenue collection counterparty” appeared after the words
“makes a payment” in paragraph  (5) .

25

Regulation  26  has effect as if the first reference to “the revenue
collection counterparty” in paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)  and  (3) (c) , and the
reference to it in paragraph  (3) (a)  and  (b) , were to “a revenue
collection counterparty” and every other reference in that regulation to “the
revenue collection counterparty” were to “that revenue collection
counterparty”.

26

Regulation  27  has effect as if—

26.a

in paragraphs  (5)  and  (6) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and each subsequent
reference were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

26.b

every other reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a
revenue collection counterparty”.

27

Regulation  28  has effect as if—

27.a

every reference in that regulation to “the revenue collection counterparty”,
except the second reference in paragraph  (7) (b) , were a reference to “a
revenue collection counterparty”;

27.b

the words “to it” appeared—

27.b.i

after the words “paid or provided” in paragraph  (1) ; and

27.b.ii

after the words “their liabilities” in paragraph  (4) (a) ;

27.c

in paragraph  (4) (b) , the words “to that revenue collection counterparty”
appeared after the word “liabilities”; and

27.d

in paragraph  (7) (b) , the second reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were a reference to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

28

Regulation  29  has effect as if—

28.a

the first reference in paragraphs  (1)  and  (6) , and the reference in
paragraphs  (4)  and  (5) , to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to
“a revenue collection counterparty”;

28.b

in paragraph  (3) —

28.b.i

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “each revenue
collection counterparty”; and

28.b.ii

the words “be contacted” were followed by “and where a revenue collection
counterparty was not designated at the time of making that first supply that
supplier must provide that email address to that revenue collection
counterparty within 2 working days of its designation under section 16 of the
Act”;

28.c

every other reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” in that
regulation were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

28.d

in paragraph  (5) , the words “by that revenue collection counterparty”
appeared after the words “notice issued”.

29

Regulation  30  has effect as if—

29.a

the first reference in that regulation to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and every other
reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” in that regulation were to
“that revenue collection counterparty”; and

29.b

in paragraph  (1) (b) , the words “to that revenue collection counterparty”
appeared after the words “liable to pay”.

30

Regulation  31  has effect as if—

30.a

in paragraph (1), the first reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and the second reference were to
“that revenue collection counterparty”; and

30.b

in paragraphs (2)(a), (3)(b) and (4)(a), each reference to “the revenue
collection counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”.

31

Regulation  32  has effect as if—

31.a

the reference in paragraph  (1) , and the first reference in paragraph  (5) ,
to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a revenue collection
counterparty” and every other reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” in that regulation were to “that revenue collection
counterparty”; and

31.b

in paragraph  (2) , the words “owed to that revenue collection counterparty”
appeared after each reference to “supplier”.

32

Regulation  33  has effect as if—

32.a

in paragraph  (1) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “the first revenue collection counterparty designated
under section 16 of the Act”;

32.b

in paragraph  (2) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty”;

32.c

in paragraph  (3) , the first reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “the first revenue collection counterparty designated
under section 16 of the Act”; and

32.d

every other reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “that
revenue collection counterparty”.

33

Regulation  34  has effect as if—

33.a

the first reference in paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)  and  (4) , to “the revenue
collection counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty” and every
other reference in paragraphs  (2)  and  (4)  to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

33.b

in paragraph  (3) , the words “by a revenue collection counterparty that is
unable fully to meet its liabilities under, or pursuant to, a revenue
collection contract” appeared after the words “which may be used”.

34

Regulation  39  has effect as if—

34.a

in paragraph  (2) (c) , the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “the revenue collection counterparty to which the direction relates”;
and

34.b

in paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) , each reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “the revenue collection counterparty to which the
revocation notice relates”.

35

Regulation  40  has effect as if the reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” in paragraph (1) were to “the revenue collection counterparty
that made the offer”.

36

Regulation  42  has effect as if—

36.a

in paragraphs (1), (2) and (5)—

36.a.i

the first reference in each paragraph to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “a revenue collection counterparty”;

36.a.ii

the second reference in each paragraph to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “that revenue collection counterparty”; and

36.a.iii

each reference to “the revenue collection counterparty’s” were to “that
revenue collection counterparty’s”; and

36.b

in paragraphs (3) and (4), each reference to “the revenue collection
counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

37

Regulation  43  has effect as if—

37.a

in paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) —

37.a.i

the first reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a
revenue collection counterparty” and the other reference were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”; and

37.a.ii

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty’s” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty’s”; and

37.b

in paragraph  (4) (a)  the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty”
were to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

38

Regulations  44 ,  46  and 47 have effect as if each reference to “the revenue
collection counterparty” were to “a revenue collection counterparty”.

39

Regulation  45(2)(e)  has effect as if—

39.a

the first reference to “the revenue collection counterparty” were to “a
revenue collection counterparty” and the other reference were to “that revenue
collection counterparty”; and

39.b

the reference to “the revenue collection counterparty’s” were to “that revenue
collection counterparty’s”.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations impose a number of obligations on persons who supply
electricity in Great Britain pursuant to an electricity supply licence
(granted by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority under section 6 of the
Electricity Act 1989). Those obligations principally consist of requirements
to make payments to the revenue collection counterparty, a person who is
designated as such under section 15 of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022
(“ the 2022 Act ”). The payments are made to enable the revenue collection
counterparty to meet its costs, which include the costs it incurs in meeting
obligations it has under revenue collection contracts. The counterparty is
also, in some circumstances, required to make payments to electricity
suppliers.

  Revenue collection contracts are contracts which the revenue collection
counterparty must offer to enter into with a designated nuclear company by
virtue of section 18 of the 2022 Act. A designated nuclear company is a
company that holds an electricity generation licence in respect of a nuclear
energy generation project and has been designated in relation to that project
under section 2 of the 2022 Act.

### Part 1

  Regulation 2 contains definitions used in these Regulations. There are terms
used in these Regulations which are defined in the Balancing and Settlement
Code. That code is available at available at the following website:
www.elexon.co.uk . A hard copy of that code may be requested from Elexon
Limited (4th Floor, 350 Euston Road, London NW1 3AW). The Balancing and
Settlement Code Company (the BSCCo) makes determinations under that code about
the amount of electricity supplied in Great Britain, and these determinations
are relied upon for various purposes in these Regulations. Every licensed
electricity supplier is a party to that code.

### Part 2

  Regulation 3 sets out the obligation of electricity suppliers to contribute
towards the costs of revenue collection contracts in respect of a quarterly
obligation period. There are four such periods a year, each lasting three
months. The regulation also provides the obligation of the revenue collection
counterparty to make payments to suppliers where a supplier’s contribution in
respect of a period is calculated as being a negative number. Whilst this
regulation sets out the principal obligation to make such payments, the
obligation will be met by the making of interim payments, reserve payments and
reconciliation payments.

  Regulation 4 sets out the calculation for an electricity supplier’s
contribution in respect of a quarterly obligation period. This is calculated
in the following way. First the sum of the following amounts is calculated:
(a) the amount required to be paid by the revenue collection counterparty
under, or pursuant to, revenue collection contracts (or to a party of those
contracts for a related breach of duty) during the period; and (b) the amount
of financial assistance funds the Secretary of State has provided to the
revenue collection counterparty that the Secretary of State has specified is
to be used when calculating the contribution for the period (the “SoS
Payment”). Second, from the resulting sum, the sum of the following amount is
subtracted: (i) the amount of payments the revenue collection counterparty
received under, or pursuant to, revenue collection contracts during the
period; (ii) the amount of the SoS Payment for the quarterly obligation period
that ended three quarterly obligation periods before the period for which the
calculation is made; and (iii) the amount of interest payable to the revenue
collection counterparty under the Regulations. Finally, once the subtraction
has been performed, the resulting amount is then multiplied by the fraction of
supplier’s share of the electricity market, excluding any EII excluded
electricity (within the meaning of regulation 6(1) of  S.I. 2015/721 ).

  Regulation 4(3) provides that determinations by the revenue collection
counterparty about amounts of EII excluded electricity supplied must be based
on information derived from the most recent BSC volume allocation run.

  Regulation 5 requires the revenue collection counterparty to determine a
rate which applies to a quarterly obligation period. That rate will be the
basis on which electricity suppliers make interim daily payments to that
revenue collection counterparty during that period. The rate is set on the
basis of the amount of money which the revenue collection counterparty
believes it will need to make payments under, or pursuant to, revenue
collection contracts (or to a party to those contracts for a related breach of
duty) during that period, less the amount of money which it believes it will
be paid under, or pursuant to, revenue collection contracts during that
period. The rate is then arrived at by dividing that amount by the amount of
electricity (excluding EII excluded electricity) which the revenue collection
counterparty estimates will be supplied during that period.

  Regulation 6 sets out the basis on which the revenue collection counterparty
must estimate the matters referred to in regulation 5.

  Regulation 7 requires an electricity supplier who supplies electricity on a
day in a quarterly obligation period to make a payment in respect of that day
(an interim rate payment). The payment is calculated by multiplying the rate
determined by the revenue collection counterparty by the amount of electricity
supplied by that supplier (excluding EII excluded electricity) on that day.
The revenue collection counterparty must issue a notice to that supplier once
the first information about electricity supply on that day is available (this
will be available once the BSCCo has carried out the Interim Information
Volume Allocation Run in relation to that day). The supplier must then pay the
amount within 5 working days after the day that notice was issued. As a
consequence, the payments are likely to be daily payments (subject to how
working days fall). The regulation also provides that interest must be paid on
amounts which are not paid on time.

  Regulation 8 provides for payments to be made by a supplier to the revenue
collection counterparty, or by the revenue collection counterparty to that
supplier, where the BSCCo revises its determination of an amount of
electricity supplied following the carrying out of an Initial Volume
Allocation Run or Reconciliation Volume Allocation Run. The payments are made
for the purpose of ensuring that the amount paid by a supplier as an interim
rate payment reflects, as much as possible, the amount of electricity actually
supplied. These payments will not be made after the conclusion of a quarterly
obligation period as amounts will be subsequently reconciled once every
quarter.

  Regulation 9 requires the revenue collection counterparty to calculate a
“total reserve amount” to be paid to it in respect of a quarterly obligation
period and the share of that amount which each supplier must pay (that
supplier’s reserve payment). The revenue collection counterparty must make a
determination about total reserve payments at least 30 days before that period
and determinations about supplier reserve payments before the end of the
period of 8 working days starting with the day which is 30 days before the
period.

  The revenue collection counterparty determines the total reserve amount by
modelling how much money it would need to have during a period to meet all
payments it might have to make to the parties to a revenue collection contract
(RCC parties). This determination is based upon a probabilistic assessment of
the amount the revenue collection counterparty would need in 95% of possible
cases.

  Regulation 10 provides that an electricity supplier must make reserve
payments by the 5th working day after the revenue collection counterparty has
issued a notice to them. Each supplier’s reserve payment is calculated by
multiplying the total reserve amount for a period by the supplier’s share of
the electricity market (excluding EII excluded electricity) for the most
recent period of 30 consecutive days for which an Initial Volume Allocation
Run has been carried out.

  Regulation 11 allows the revenue collection counterparty to vary an interim
levy rate, and/or require a further reserve payment from suppliers where,
after setting the rate and determining the total reserve amount, it later
appears that it will not receive enough money to make all the payments to RCC
parties it must make during that period. The regulation also allows the
revenue collection counterparty to reduce the interim levy rate if it appears
that it will receive significantly more than enough money to make payments to
the RCC parties during that period.

  Regulation 12 sets out the means for determining an adjusted interim rate.
The rate is arrived at in the same manner as the rate determined under
regulation 5, but taking into account such payments as have already been made
and may be made before the coming into effect of the adjusted rate. An
adjusted rate will not have effect before at least 30 days after that rate has
been determined.

  Regulation 13 sets out the means for determining an additional total reserve
amount for a quarterly obligation period, and the share of that amount which
each supplier must pay. An additional total reserve amount is arrived at in a
similar manner to the total reserve amount. The same probabilistic assessment
is made in respect of the payments which must be made by the revenue
collection counterparty for as much of the period as remains after the making
of the determination. A supplier will have to pay its share of the amount no
earlier than 30 days after it has been notified of the amount it has to pay.

  Regulation 14 allows the revenue collection counterparty to reduce the total
reserve amount without notice by recalculating it where it considers that it
would collect significantly more from suppliers than needed in order to make
all payments during the reserve period. This needs to be done in advance of
the issue of the reconciliation notice which triggers payment of a suppliers’
reserve payment.

  Regulation 15 makes provision for the revenue collection counterparty to
calculate reconciliation payments which must be made by it to a supplier, or
by that supplier to it. Reconciliation payments must be determined in respect
of a quarterly obligation period once in every subsequent quarterly
obligation. This will happen 10 times.

  Regulation 16 sets out the means for calculating a reconciliation payment.
To calculate such a payment the revenue collection counterparty must calculate
the RCC period contribution of a supplier using the latest data available.
This is then compared against the total amount of payments under Chapter 2 and
3 which that supplier was required to pay to the revenue collection
counterparty, and which were required to be paid by the revenue collection
counterparty to that supplier. The difference between the two determines the
amount and direction of a reconciliation payment.

  Regulation 17 makes provision for the circumstances in which an electricity
supplier defaults on a payment it was required to make. In those circumstances
other electricity suppliers can be required to pay further amounts to cover
the amount of that default (a mutualisation of that default).

  Regulation 18 makes provision for the circumstances where, following a
mutualisation of a default, the revenue collection counterparty is able to
recover amounts from the supplier who defaulted. In those circumstances,
suppliers who were subject to the obligation to pay in respect of that default
must be paid a share of the amount recovered, and a share of any default
interest which was paid in respect of that default.

  Regulation 19 imposes a requirement on electricity suppliers to provide
collateral in respect of their obligations under this Part. The amount of
collateral which must be provided by a supplier is calculated by reference to
the amount of electricity supplied for a recent period of 21 days. A supplier
may choose to provide collateral as cash or as letters of credit. As that
requirement is calculated daily the requirement may fluctuate and electricity
suppliers may have to provide additional collateral. Suppliers will also have
to provide additional collateral where their collateral is used (“called”) by
the revenue collection counterparty.

  Regulation 20 makes provision about the terms of letters of credit which may
be provided by electricity suppliers to meet their collateral requirement. The
revenue collection counterparty may determine whether the terms of a letter of
credit are appropriate. The regulation also makes provision about the required
credit rating of a person issuing such a letter.

  Regulation 21 contains provision about how collateral is called by the
revenue collection counterparty. It may be called by the revenue collection
counterparty when an electricity supplier fails to make a payment it is
required to make under this Part. The revenue collection counterparty may then
issue a notice to that supplier informing it that an amount of that supplier’s
collateral is called. This may trigger the requirement to provide further
collateral. Where collateral was provided as cash, this cash is treated as
having been paid to the revenue collection counterparty and will discharge
that supplier’s obligations as a payment would have done. Where collateral was
provided as a letter of credit, the obligations of a supplier will only be
discharged where the person issuing the letter of credit has paid the revenue
collection counterparty under it.

  Regulation 22 allows an electricity supplier to request the return of
collateral where the amount provided exceeds the amount of that supplier’s
collateral requirement at that time. The regulation also provides that any
interest which has been earned on the holding of cash collateral by the
revenue collection counterparty must be paid to the supplier who provided that
collateral.

### Part 3

  Regulation 23 requires electricity suppliers to make operational cost
payments to the revenue collection counterparty. The payments are calculated
by reference to the amount of electricity supplied on a day, and a rate
specified in this regulation. Payments must be made daily, except in relation
to the first operational costs period where the sum of the payments for that
period must be made after the revenue collection counterparty has given notice
of the amounts of all the payments which are due in respect of that period, so
they are, in effect, required to be paid by the same date, which will be after
the conclusion of that period.

  Regulation 24 makes provision about the circumstances where the revenue
collection counterparty has received more in operational cost payments than
the amount of its costs. In those circumstances the revenue collection
counterparty must pay electricity suppliers any excess based on the amount of
electricity supplied over the operational cost period.

### Part 4

  Regulation 25 makes provision about enforcement of the requirements of
electricity suppliers under these Regulations. It enables the Gas and
Electricity Markets Authority (the Authority) to deal with any breach of such
requirements as if those requirements were, in effect, requirements under an
electricity supply licence. It also provides for notices to be issued by the
revenue collection counterparty where a supplier has breached a requirement to
make a payment, or a requirement to provide collateral. In the case of a
breach of a collateral requirement, a supplier will then have to provide that
collateral as cash.

  Regulation 26 enables an electricity supplier to dispute any determination
made by the revenue collection counterparty. Determinations about an amount of
electricity supplied which is determined by the BSCCo are excluded from this
provision.

  Regulation 27 sets out the duties of the revenue collection counterparty in
relation to the determination of disputes including the steps it must take if
it accepts a dispute. It also makes provision dealing with the effect of
determinations made following the determination of a dispute.

  Regulation 28 imposes general duties on the revenue collection counterparty
including a duty in relation to the collection of sums to be paid under these
Regulations, and duties to keep electricity suppliers informed of their
liabilities under these Regulations.

  Regulation 29 makes provision about the issuing of notices by the revenue
collection counterparty under these Regulations and the giving of notices by
electricity suppliers, including provision about the giving and issuing of
notices electronically.

  Regulation 30 enables the revenue collection counterparty to set off amounts
it has to pay to a supplier against amounts that supplier must pay.

  Regulation 31 enables the revenue collection counterparty to net payments
due to suppliers against payments due from suppliers. Such payments can be
netted against one another automatically where they are due at the same time.

  Regulation 32 deals with the circumstances where an electricity supplier
makes a partial payment such that not all of its liabilities at that time will
be discharged by the making of that payment. In those circumstances that
payment will be allocated to the outstanding debts of that supplier in an
order determined partially by this regulation and partially by the revenue
collection counterparty in its discretion.

  Regulation 33 prohibits the revenue collection counterparty from using
payments received from a supplier under regulation 23 for any purpose other
than meeting its costs. Payments received from suppliers under other
regulations may only be used the purposes of making payments under, or
pursuant to, the revenue collection contracts (or payments to a party to those
contracts for a related breach of duty) and making repayments due to the
Secretary of State in relation to funds provided to the revenue collection
counterparty by the Secretary of State.

  Regulation 34 deals with the circumstances where the revenue collection
counterparty does not hold enough money to make all payments it is required to
make under revenue collection contracts. In those circumstances the amount
that the revenue collection counterparty holds will be divided between the
revenue collection contracts such that a proportional share of the total
available may be paid under each revenue collection contract.

  Regulation 35 contains provision designed to have effect in relation to the
terms of revenue collection contracts. The terms of revenue collection
contracts may include limited recourse provisions which prevent a party to
those agreements from taking steps to recover more from the revenue collection
contract than it has raised under these Regulations (or is available from
other sources). Regulation 35 applies the apportionment provision in
regulation 34 to such revenue collection contracts in accordance with those
terms.

  Regulation 36 sets out the rate of interest which applies to a requirement
of a supplier to pay interest under these Regulations.

### Part 5

  Regulation 37 sets out the requirements for directions given by the
Secretary of State directing the revenue collection counterparty to offer to
contract with a designated nuclear company on specified terms.

  Regulation 38 sets out requirements for the form and content of the
specified terms.

  Regulation 39 specifies the procedure that the Secretary of State must
following when revoking a direction made under regulation 37 and the effect
such a revocation has.

  Regulation 40 requires the revenue collection counterparty to publish a
revenue collection contract, excluding confidential information, when a
designated nuclear company accepts an offer to enter into such a contract.

  Regulation 41 contains a definition used in Part 5 of these Regulations.

### Part 6

  Regulation 42 gives the revenue collection counterparty, the Authority and
the Secretary of State power to request information from certain persons in
connection with their relevant functions. Persons who receive such requests
must comply with them within such period as the person making the request
reasonably requires.

  Regulation 43 provides that certain persons may provide information (whether
or not a request for information has been made) to the revenue collection
counterparty, Authority and Secretary of State where the person reasonably
considers the recipients requires the information in connection with their
relevant functions.

  Regulation 44 enables the Secretary of State to request advice relating to
revenue collection contracts that is reasonably required in connection with
the Secretary of State’s relevant functions, from the revenue collection
counterparty, the Authority, or the person operating the national transmission
system for Great Britain.

  Regulation 45 provides that information or advice provided under Part 6 of
these Regulations may not be disclosed to another person subject to certain
exemptions.

  Regulation 46 sets out various supplementary matters relating to Part 6 of
these Regulations. These include provision that requirements imposed on
certain persons under Part 6 are to be treated as having effect on that person
as if the requirement were a relevant requirement placed on a regulated person
for the purposes of section 25 of the Electricity Act  1989 (c. 29) .

  Regulation 47 contains definitions used in Part 6 of these Regulations.

### Schedule

  The Schedule sets out the way the provisions of these Regulations will
operate when there is more than one revenue collection counterparty
designated. In those circumstances electricity suppliers would be required to
contribute separately to the costs of revenue collection contracts in relation
to each revenue collection counterparty.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business and the voluntary sector is available from the Department
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy at 1 Victoria Street, London,
SW1H 0ET and is published with the Explanatory Memorandum alongside this
instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

