Title: The Council Tax Reduction and Council Tax (Discounts) (Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-07-18
Description: These Regulations amend the Council Tax Reduction (Scotland) Regulations 2021 (“the Working Age Regulations”), the Council Tax Reduction (State Pension Credit) (Scotland) Regulations 2012 (“the Pension Age Regulations”) and the Council Tax (Discounts) (Scotland) Regulations 1992. (“the Discount Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/38

## The Council Tax Reduction and Council Tax (Discounts) (Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations 2023

    Council Tax

  Made   9th February 2023

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   13th February 2023

  Coming into force   1st April 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 80 and 113(1) and (2), paragraph 11 of schedule 1
and paragraph 1 of schedule 2 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992  and
all other powers enabling them to do so.

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Council Tax Reduction and Council Tax
(Discounts) (Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations 2023 and come
into force on 1 April 2023.

### Amendment of the Council Tax Reduction (Scotland) Regulations 2021

2

The Council Tax Reduction (Scotland) Regulations 2021  are amended in
accordance with regulations 3 to 21.

#### General amendments

3

In regulation 3(1) (application), for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

3.b

has attained pensionable age if that person, or any partner of that person—

3.b.i

is a person on a qualifying income-related benefit, or

3.b.ii

is a person who has an award of universal credit, except as provided for by
paragraphs (2) and (3), or who has made a claim for universal credit which is
yet to be determined.

.

4

In regulation 4 (interpretation), in the definition of “employment and support
allowance”, omit “(removing references to an income-based allowance)”.

5

In regulation 8 (meaning of “ non-dependant ”)—

5.a

in paragraph (2)—

5.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph ( e ), omit “or”,

5.a.ii

for sub-paragraph (f) substitute—

5.a.ii.f

a person who holds permission to enter or stay in the United Kingdom granted
under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme route set out in Appendix
Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules made under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971 , where the person is being provided with accommodation
by an Approved sponsor under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, or

5.a.ii.g

a person who has entered the United Kingdom under one of the following schemes
and is being provided with accommodation without making payment in return—

5.a.ii.g.i

the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme,

5.a.ii.g.ii

the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy,

5.a.ii.g.iii

the Community Sponsorship Scheme,

5.a.ii.g.iv

the UK Resettlement Scheme,

5.a.ii.g.v

the Vulnerable Children’s Resettlement Scheme,

5.a.ii.g.vi

the Vulnerable Person’s Resettlement Scheme.

,

5.b

in paragraph (3) for “, (e) and (f)” substitute  “and ( e) to (g)” ,

5.c

after paragraph (3) insert—

5.c.4

In this regulation—

5.c.4.a

“ the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme of that name
announced by the United Kingdom Government on 18 August 2021 ,

5.c.4.b

“ the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy ” means the support scheme for
relocation of Afghan citizens to the United Kingdom launched by the United
Kingdom Government on 1 April 2021 ,

5.c.4.c

“ the Community Sponsorship Scheme ” means the scheme for community support
for refugees launched by the United Kingdom Government in July 2016 ,

5.c.4.d

“ the UK Resettlement Scheme ” means the resettlement scheme for refugees
launched by the United Kingdom Government in March 2021 ,

5.c.4.e

“ the Vulnerable Children’s Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme for
resettlement of refugee children and their families launched by the United
Kingdom Government in 2016 ,

5.c.4.f

“ the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme ” means the resettlement scheme
for refugees fleeing the conflict in Syria launched by the United Kingdom
Government in January 2014 .

.

6

In regulation 16(6) (persons not entitled to council tax reduction: persons
treated as not being in Great Britain)—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (f), omit from “where that leave is” to the end of that sub-
paragraph,

6.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (k), omit “or”,

6.c

in sub-paragraph (l) for “(f)(iv)” substitute  “(f)” ,

6.d

at the end of sub-paragraph (l) insert—

, or

6.d.m

a person in Great Britain who was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1
January 2022, left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took
place on 24 February 2022 and—

6.d.m.i

has been granted leave in accordance with the rules referred to in sub-
paragraph (f), or

6.d.m.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 2 of
the Immigration Act 1971  or, in accordance with section 3ZA of that Act ,
does not require a right of abode

.

7

In regulation 20(3)(j) (persons not entitled to council tax reduction:
students)—

7.a

after “in respect of whom” insert  “, on account of the student’s disability
by reason of deafness” ,

7.b

omit “on account of the student’s disability by reason of deafness” at the end
of head (v).

8

In regulation 34A (changes of circumstances in cases involving an award of
universal credit) —

8.a

in paragraph (2)(b) for “claim” substitute  “award” ,

8.b

in paragraphs (3) and (4) for “claim for”, in each place where it occurs,
substitute  “award of” .

9

In regulation 41(1) (average weekly unearned income), omit “and nothing in
this paragraph authorises a relevant authority to disregard any income other
than that specified in these Regulations”.

10

In regulation 42(2)(a) (calculation of income on a weekly basis (applicants
with an award of universal credit)), for “Chapter” substitute  “Part” .

11

In regulation 44(2) (meaning of assessment period) for “and 41 (average weekly
unearned income)” substitute  “, 41 (average weekly unearned income) and 41A
(calculation of average weekly income from tax credits)” .

12

In regulation 47 (calculation of earned income in an assessment period), after
paragraph (3) insert—

12.4

In this regulation, “ trade dispute ” has the meaning given in section 244 of
the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 .

.

13

In regulation 51(5) (self-employed earnings), for “paragraphs (6) to (10)”
substitute  “paragraphs (6) to (11)” .

14

In regulation 57 (meaning of “ unearned income ”)—

14.a

in paragraph (1)(b)(iii) —

14.a.i

before “employment” insert  “contributory” ,

14.a.ii

omit “(removing references to an income-based allowance)”,

14.b

in paragraph (4) for “paragraph (1)(b)(v)” substitute  “paragraph (1)(b)(vi)”
.

15

In regulation 77(12) (treatment of childcare charges (applicants with no award
of universal credit))—

15.a

after sub-paragraph (g) insert—

15.a.ga

adult disability payment payable on account of the other member’s incapacity
has been reduced to £0 under regulation 28(2) (effect of admission to hospital
on ongoing entitlement to Adult Disability Payment) of the Disability
Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022

,

15.b

in sub-paragraph (h) for “(f) or (g)” substitute  “(f), (g) or (ga)” .

16

In schedule 1 (applicable amount), in paragraph 14(1) (enhanced disability
premium)—

16.a

in head (d) for “or a member of the applicant’s family” substitute  “or the
applicant’s partner” ,

16.b

in head (e), at the end, omit “or”,

16.c

in head (f), at the end, insert—

, or

16.c.g

attendance allowance is payable in respect of the applicant or the applicant’s
partner

.

17

In schedule 4 (capital to be disregarded), in paragraphs 16 to 18, for “26
weeks”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “6 months” .

#### Uprating

18

In regulation 90 (non-dependant deductions) —

18.a

in paragraph (1)—

18.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£13.30” substitute  “£14.65” , and

18.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£4.45” substitute  “£4.90” ,

18.b

in paragraph (2)—

18.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£228.00” substitute  “£241.00” ,

18.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

18.b.ii.aa

“£228.00” substitute “£241.00”,

18.b.ii.bb

“£396.00” substitute “£418.00”, and

18.b.ii.cc

“£8.80” substitute “£9.70”, and

18.b.iii

in sub-paragraph ( c ) for—

18.b.iii.aa

“£396.00” substitute “£418.00”,

18.b.iii.bb

“£490.00” substitute “£517.00”, and

18.b.iii.cc

“£11.15” substitute “£12.30.”

19

In regulation 98(2)(b) (amount of a transitional family premium) , for
“£17.85” substitute  “£18.53” .

20

In schedule 1 (applicable amount) —

20.a

in the table in paragraph 1 (applicable amount for the purposes of regulation
35(a)), for—

20.a.i

“£77.00” in each place where it occurs substitute  “£84.80” ,

20.a.ii

“£61.05” substitute “£67.20”, and

20.a.iii

“£121.05” substitute “£133.30”,

20.b

in paragraph 2 (applicable amount for the purposes of regulation 35(b)), for
“£88.50” substitute  “£97.23” ,

20.c

in paragraph 3 (additional amount in respect of a child or young person who is
disabled where neither the applicant nor the applicant’s partner has an award
of universal credit)—

20.c.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ,

20.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

20.c.ii.aa

“£68.04” substitute “£74.69”, and

20.c.ii.bb

“£27.44” substitute “£30.17”,

20.d

in paragraph 4 (additional amount in respect of a child or young person who is
disabled where the applicant or the applicant’s partner has an award of
universal credit)—

20.d.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ,

20.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

20.d.ii.aa

“£68.04” substitute “£74.69,” and

20.d.ii.bb

“£27.44” substitute “£30.17”,

20.e

in paragraph 4B  (additional amount for certain kinship carers in respect of a
child or young person who is disabled)—

20.e.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” , and

20.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

20.e.ii.aa

“£68.04” substitute “£74.69”, and

20.e.ii.bb

“£27.44” substitute “£30.17”,

20.f

in paragraph 4C  (award of universal credit would include an additional
amount, but for the fact that a child or young person is in receipt of short-
term assistance under the Disability Assistance for Children and Young People
(Scotland) Regulations 2021)—

20.f.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” , and

20.f.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

20.f.ii.aa

“£68.04” substitute “£74.69”, and

20.f.ii.bb

“£27.44” substitute “£30.17”,

20.g

in paragraph 4D  (award of universal credit would include an additional
amount, but for the fact that a young person is in receipt of short-term
assistance under the Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland)
Regulations 2022)—

20.g.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” , and

20.g.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

20.g.ii.aa

“£68.04” substitute “£74.69”, and

20.g.ii.bb

“£27.44” substitute “£30.17”,

20.h

in paragraph 5(1) (carer premium) for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” ,

20.i

in the table in paragraph 17 (amounts of disability and carer premiums), in
the entry—

20.i.i

“Disabled child premium” for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ,

20.i.ii

“Carer premium” for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” ,

20.i.iii

“Disability premium” for—

20.i.iii.aa

“£36.20” substitute “£39.85”, and

20.i.iii.bb

“£51.60” substitute “£56.80”,

20.i.iv

“Severe disability premium” for—

20.i.iv.aa

“£69.40” in both places where it occurs substitute  “£76.40” , and

20.i.iv.bb

“£138.80” substitute “£152.80”, and

20.i.v

“Enhanced disability premium” for—

20.i.v.aa

“£27.44” substitute “£30.17”,

20.i.v.bb

“£17.75” substitute “£19.55”, and

20.i.v.cc

“£25.35” substitute “£27.90”,

20.j

in paragraph 23 (amount of work-related activity component), for “£30.60”
substitute  “£33.70” , and

20.k

in paragraph 24 (amount of support component), for “£40.60” substitute
“£44.70” .

21

In schedule 2 (amount of second adult rebate) , in the table in paragraph 1
(determination of the second adult rebate in respect of a day for the purposes
of regulation 91)—

21.a

in entry (b)(i) for “£224.00” substitute  “£237.00” , and

21.b

in entry (b)(ii) for —

21.b.i

“£224.00” substitute “£237.00”, and

21.b.ii

“£292.00” substitute “£308.00”.

### Amendment of the Council Tax Reduction (State Pension Credit) (Scotland) Regulations 2012

22

The Council Tax Reduction (State Pension Credit) (Scotland) Regulations 2012
are amended in accordance with regulations 23 to 28.

#### General amendments

23

In regulation 3 (non-dependants)—

23.a

In paragraph (2)—

23.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (f) omit “and”,

23.a.ii

for sub-paragraph (g) substitute—

23.a.ii.g

a person who holds permission to enter or stay in the United Kingdom granted
under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme route set out in Appendix
Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules made under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971 , where the person is being provided with accommodation
by an Approved sponsor under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme; and

23.a.ii.h

a person who has entered the United Kingdom under one of the following schemes
and is being provided with accommodation without making payment in return—

23.a.ii.h.i

the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme,

23.a.ii.h.ii

the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy,

23.a.ii.h.iii

the Community Sponsorship Scheme,

23.a.ii.h.iv

the UK Resettlement Scheme,

23.a.ii.h.v

the Vulnerable Children’s Resettlement Scheme,

23.a.ii.h.vi

the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme.

,

23.b

in paragraph (3) for “and (f) to (g)” substitute  “and ( f) to (h)” ,

23.c

after paragraph (3) insert—

23.c.4

In this regulation—

23.c.4.a

“ the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme of that name
announced by the United Kingdom Government on 18 August 2021 ,

23.c.4.b

“ the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy ” means the support scheme for
relocation of Afghan citizens to the United Kingdom launched by the United
Kingdom Government on 1 April 2021 ,

23.c.4.c

“ the Community Sponsorship Scheme ” means the scheme for community support
for refugees launched by the United Kingdom Government in July 2016 ,

23.c.4.d

“ the UK Resettlement Scheme ” means the resettlement scheme for refugees
launched by the United Kingdom Government in March 2021 ,

23.c.4.e

“ the Vulnerable Children’s Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme for
resettlement of refugee children and their families launched by the United
Kingdom Government in 2016 ,

23.c.4.f

“ the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme ” means the resettlement scheme
for refugees fleeing the conflict in Syria launched by the United Kingdom
Government in January 2014 .

.

24

In regulation 16(5)(l)(ii) (persons not entitled to council tax reduction:
persons treated as not being in Great Britain), after “1971” insert—

or, in accordance with section 3ZA of that Act , does not require a right of
abode

.

#### Uprating

25

In regulation 20 (applicable amount) , in paragraph (e) for “£17.85”
substitute  “£18.53” .

26

In regulation 48 (non-dependant deductions) —

26.a

in paragraph (1)—

26.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£13.30” substitute  “£14.65” , and

26.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£4.45” substitute  “£4.90” ,

26.b

in paragraph (2)—

26.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£228.00” substitute  “£241.00” ,

26.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for—

26.b.ii.aa

“£228.00” substitute “£241.00”,

26.b.ii.bb

“£396.00” substitute “£418.00”, and

26.b.ii.cc

“£8.80” substitute “£9.70”, and

26.b.iii

in sub-paragraph ( c ) for—

26.b.iii.aa

“£396.00” substitute “£418.00”,

26.b.iii.bb

“£490.00” substitute “£517.00”, and

26.b.iii.cc

“£11.15” substitute “£12.30”.

27

In schedule 1 (applicable amount) —

27.a

in the table in paragraph 2 (personal allowances for the purposes of
regulation 20(a))—

27.a.i

in entry (1)(b) for “£197.10 ” substitute  “£217.00” ,

27.a.ii

in entry (2)(b) for “£294.90” substitute  “£324.70” ,

27.a.iii

in entry (4)(a) for “£294.90” substitute  “£324.70” , and

27.a.iv

in entry (4)(b) for “£97.80” substitute  “£107.70” ,

27.b

in the table in paragraph 3 (applicable amount for the purposes of regulation
20(b)), for “£88.50” in both places where it occurs substitute  “£97.23” , and

27.c

in the table in paragraph 13 (amount of disability premium)—

27.c.i

in entries (1)(a) and (1)(b)(i) for “£69.40” substitute  “£76.40” ,

27.c.ii

in entry (1)(b)(ii) for “£138.80” substitute  “£152.80” ,

27.c.iii

in entry (2) for “£27.44” substitute  “£30.17” ,

27.c.iv

in entry (3) for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” , and

27.c.v

in entry (4) for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” .

28

In schedule 5 (amount of alternative maximum council tax reduction) , in the
table in paragraph 1—

28.a

in entry (b)(i) for “£224.00” substitute  “£237.00” , and

28.b

in entry (b)(ii)—

28.b.i

for “£224.00” substitute  “£237.00” , and

28.b.ii

for “£292.00” substitute  “£308.00” .

### Amendment of the Council Tax (Discounts) (Scotland) Regulations 1992

29

29.1

The Council Tax (Discounts) (Scotland) Regulations 1992  are amended in
accordance with paragraph (2).

29.2

In the schedule—

29.2.a

in paragraph 7 (persons formerly residing in Ukraine) , for the words from
“has been granted” to the end substitute  “holds permission to enter or stay
in the United Kingdom granted under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
route set out in Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules made under
section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 , where the person is being provided
with accommodation by an Approved sponsor under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme” ,

29.2.b

after paragraph 7 insert—

########### Persons who have entered the United Kingdom under relocation or resettlement schemes

29.2.b.8

29.2.b.8.1

A person shall be disregarded for the purposes of a discount on a particular
day if on that day the person is being provided with accommodation without
making payment in return, having entered the United Kingdom under one of the
following schemes—

29.2.b.8.1.a

the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme,

29.2.b.8.1.b

the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy,

29.2.b.8.1.c

the Community Sponsorship Scheme,

29.2.b.8.1.d

the UK Resettlement Scheme

29.2.b.8.1.e

the Vulnerable Children’s Resettlement Scheme,

29.2.b.8.1.f

the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme.

29.2.b.8.2

In this paragraph—

29.2.b.8.2.a

“ the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme of that name
announced by the United Kingdom Government on 18 August 2021 ,

29.2.b.8.2.b

“ the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy ” means the support scheme for
relocation of Afghan citizens to the United Kingdom launched by the United
Kingdom Government on 1 April 2021 ,

29.2.b.8.2.c

“ the Community Sponsorship Scheme ” means the scheme for community support
for refugees launched by the United Kingdom Government in July 2016 ,

29.2.b.8.2.d

“ the UK resettlement scheme ” means the scheme for resettlement of refugees
launched by the United Kingdom Government in March 2021 ,

29.2.b.8.2.e

“ the Vulnerable Children’s Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme for
resettlement of refugee children and their families launched by the United
Kingdom Government in 2016 , and

29.2.b.8.2.f

“ the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme ” means the resettlement scheme
for refugees fleeing the conflict in Syria launched by the United Kingdom
Government in January 2014 .

.

      TOM ARTHUR   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       9th February 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Council Tax Reduction (Scotland) Regulations
2021 (“ the Working Age Regulations ”), the Council Tax Reduction (State
Pension Credit) (Scotland) Regulations 2012 (“ the Pension Age Regulations ”)
and the Council Tax (Discounts) (Scotland) Regulations 1992. (“ the Discount
Regulations ”).

  Part 2 of the Regulations makes corrections and clarifications to the
Working Age Regulations and includes provision for uprating of figures in
those Regulations.

  Regulation 3 amends regulation 3(1)(b) to replace the reference to being “on
Universal Credit”, with reference to having an award of Universal Credit, or
having made a claim which is yet to be determined. This ensures that the
application of the Working Age Regulations is not excluded while a claim for
Universal Credit is being determined.

  Regulations 4 and 14(a) make amendments to clarify whether references in
various places in the Working Age Regulations to employment and support
allowance are to contributory or income-based employment and support
allowance, or both.

  Regulation 5 amends regulation 8 of the Working Age Regulations so that the
exclusion of people coming from Ukraine from treatment as a non-dependant only
applies to people coming to the UK under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship
Scheme, and where they are being provided with accommodation by an Approved
sponsor under that Scheme. It also provides that the same treatment applies to
displaced persons coming to the UK under other specified schemes, and hosted
in accommodation for which they make no payment in return for provision of the
accommodation.

  Regulation 6 amends regulation 16 to enable certain persons coming from
Ukraine to be classed as being in Great Britain, for the purposes of
entitlement to council tax reduction. The persons covered are those who were
residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, left in connection with
the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022, and have been
granted leave under the immigration rules, or have a right of abode in the UK,
or do not require a right of abode because they are Irish citizens. The effect
of the change at regulation 6(a) is that the general exemption from the
requirement to be in Great Britain will apply to anyone who has been granted
leave, or has been deemed to have been granted leave, outside the immigration
rules, not just those who have such leave under certain specified
circumstances. Regulation 6(c) makes a change consequential on regulation
6(a).

  Regulation 7 amends regulation 20(3)(j) so that the entitlement to council
tax reduction of full time students receiving one of the payments listed in
regulation 20(3)(j) is limited to those who receive the payments as a result
of having a disability caused by deafness.

  Regulation 8 replaces the word “claim” with “award” in regulation 34A. This
reflects that where a decision is made that a person is entitled to Universal
Credit, such that there may be a change of circumstances falling within
regulation 34A, there is no longer a claim in existence, it is an award.

  Regulation 9 omits a portion of wording in regulation 41 to reflect that
nothing is counted as income unless it falls within the description of earned
or unearned income in the Working Age Regulations; those Regulations do not,
therefore, provide for any express disregard of income.

  Regulations 10, 13 and 14(b) correct minor typographical errors.

  Regulation 11 adds to the descriptions of assessment periods for calculation
of income in regulation 44(2) the calculation of average weekly income from
working tax credits as provided for in regulation 41A.

  Regulation 12 inserts a definition of “trade dispute” in regulation 47.

  Regulation 15 adds to list of situations where the other member of a couple
is incapacitated for the purposes of regulation 77(2)(c) of the Working Age
Regulations. It adds the scenario where a person has an award of adult
disability payment but the payment has been reduced to zero on account of the
person having been an in-patient in a hospital or similar institution for more
than 28 days.

  Regulation 16(a) and (b) amends paragraph 14(1)(d) of schedule 1 to reflect
that, given paragraph 3 of that schedule, entitlement to enhanced disability
premium under paragraph 14(1)(d) will only arise in practice where it is the
applicant or the applicant’s partner in respect of whom the appropriate
component and rate of adult disability payment is payable. This this will not
include a young person for whom the applicant is responsible.

  Regulation 16(c) expands paragraph 14(1) of schedule 1 to provide for
entitlement to enhanced disability premium where attendance allowance is
payable in respect of the applicant or the applicant’s partner.

  Regulation 17 replaces references to 26 weeks in paragraphs 16 to 18 of
schedule 4 with references to six months. Taken together with regulation
69(2), which provides for an extension of any period of six months specified
in schedule 4, this allows the period of disregard of the amounts of capital
specified in paragraphs 16 to 18 to be extended where appropriate.

  Regulations 18 to 21 uprate figures used to calculate entitlement to council
tax reduction in the Working Age Regulations.

  Part 3 uprates figures used to calculate entitlement to council tax
reduction in the Pension Age Regulations. It also amends regulation 3 so that
the exclusion of people coming from Ukraine from treatment as a non-dependant
only applies to people coming to the UK under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme, and where they are being provided with accommodation by an
Approved sponsor under that Scheme. It broadens the circumstances in which a
person coming from Ukraine is to be treated as being in Great Britain. The
expansion will cover any person who was residing in Ukraine immediately before
1 January 2022, left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which
took place on 24 February 2022 and, under section 3ZA of the Immigration Act
1971, does not require a right of abode in the United Kingdom. This captures
Irish citizens. It also provides that a similar exclusion from treatment as a
non-dependant applies to displaced persons coming to the UK under other
specified schemes, and hosted in accommodation for which they make no payment
in return for provision of the accommodation.

  Part 4 amends the Discount Regulations so that a person coming to the UK
from Ukraine is be disregarded, for the purposes of entitlement of the person
providing then with accommodation to the council tax single person discount,
only where the person has come to the UK under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme, and the person providing the accommodation is an Approved
sponsor under that Scheme. It also provides that the same treatment applies to
displaced persons coming to the UK under other specified schemes, and hosted
in accommodation for which they make no payment in return for provision of the
accommodation.

