Title: The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-06-21
Description: These Regulations amend the Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 (S.R 1995 No.95) (“the 1995 Regulations”), Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (S.R. 2008 No.256) (“the 2008 regulations”), Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (S.R. 2015 No.120) (“the 2015 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/33

## The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Health And Personal Social Services   Public Service Pensions

  Made   9 March 2023

  Coming into operation   1 April 2023

      The Department of Health makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 12(1), (2) and (3), and 14(1) and (2) of, and
Schedule 3 to, the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 and sections
1(1) and (2)(e), 2(1) and 3(1) to (3) of, and paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 and
Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014  (“
2014 Act ”).       In accordance with Article 12(4) of the Superannuation
(Northern Ireland) Order 1972 and sections 21(1) and 22(2)(a) of the 2014 Act,
the Department has consulted the representatives of such persons as appear to
the Department likely to be affected by these Regulations with a view to
reaching agreement with them.       In accordance with section 22(2)(b) of the
2014 Act, the Department has laid a report before the Assembly.           In
accordance with Article 12(1) of the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order
1972 and 3(5) of the 2014 Act the Regulations are made with the consent of the
Department of Finance.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 1 April 2023 and have effect as
provided by paragraphs (3) to (5).

1.3

Part 2, Part 3, and regulations 18, 19, 22, 25 and 26 have effect from 15
March 2015.

1.4

Part 6 has effect from 1 April 2022.

1.5

Regulations 20, and 21 and Part 5 have effect from 1 November 2022.

### Amendment of the Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995

#### General

2

The Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1995  are amended as follows.

#### Amendment of regulation 2

3

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

“ shared parental leave ” means leave under section 107E or 107G of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

#### Amendment of regulation 65

4

In regulation 65 (absence because of illness or injury or certain types of
leave)  in paragraphs (1) and (4)(b) after “parental leave” insert  “, shared
parental leave” .

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008

#### General

5

The Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2008  are amended as follows.

#### Amendment of regulation 6

6

In regulation 6 (interpretation: general) at the appropriate place insert—

“ shared parental leave ” means leave under section 107E or 107G of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

#### Amendment of regulation 9

7

In regulation 9 (pensionable service: breaks in service) —

7.a

in paragraph (1)(e) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” ;

7.b

in paragraph (7) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” .

#### Amendment of regulation 14

8

In regulation 14 (pensionable pay: breaks in service)   in paragraph (1)(e)
after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” .

#### Amendment of regulation 35

9

In regulation 35 (effect of member being absent or leaving and rejoining this
Section of the Scheme during the contribution option period the Scheme during
the contribution option period)  in paragraph (1)(e) after “parental leave,”
insert  “shared parental leave,” .

#### Amendment of regulation 89

10

In regulation 89 (death during period of absence)—

10.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or parental leave,”.

10.b

after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

10.b.e

parental leave or shared parental leave,

#### Amendment of regulation 137

11

In regulation 137 (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

“ shared parental leave ” means leave under section 107E or 107G of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

#### Amendment of regulation 140

12

In regulation 140 (pensionable service: breaks in service) —

12.a

in paragraph (1) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” ;

12.b

in paragraph (7) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” .

#### Amendment of regulation 143

13

In regulation 143 (meaning of “ pensionable earnings ”) -

13.a

in paragraph(4)(b) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” ;

13.b

in paragraph(5)(b) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” .

#### Amendment of regulation 144

14

In regulation 144 (pensionable earnings: breaks in service)  in paragraph
(1)(e) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave,” .

#### Amendment of regulation 166

15

In regulation 166 (effect of member being absent or leaving and rejoining this
Section of the scheme during the contribution option period)  in paragraph
(1)(e) after “parental leave” insert  “or shared parental leave” .

#### Amendment of regulation 216

16

In regulation 216 (death during period of absence)—

16.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) omit “or parental leave,”.

16.b

after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

16.b.e

parental leave or shared parental leave,

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

17

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
are amended as follows.

#### Amendment of regulation 21

18

In regulation 21 (absence from work) in paragraph (1)(e) after “parental
leave,” insert  “shared parental leave, or” .

#### Amendment of regulation 28

19

In regulation 28 (pensionable earnings: break in service) in paragraph (2)(e)
after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental leave, or” .

#### Amendment of regulation 30

20

20.1

Regulation 30 (Members’ contributions: employees)  is amended as follows.

20.2

In paragraph (3)—

20.2.a

after “the scheme year 2022/23” insert  “(from 1 November 2022) and scheme
year 2023/24 and each subsequent scheme year;

20.2.b

for the table in paragraph (3), substitute—

Table Scheme Year 2022/23 (from 1 November 2022) and Scheme Year 2023/24 and
each subsequent scheme year. Column 1 Pensionable earnings band Column 2
Contribution percentage rate Up to £13,246 5.1% £13,247 to £16,831 5.7%
£16,832 to £22,878 6.1% £22,879 to £23,948 6.8% £23,949 to £28,223 7.7%
£28,224 to £29,179 8.8% £29,180 to £43,805 9.8% £43,806 to £49,245 10.0%
£49,246 to £56,163 11.6% £56,164 to £72,030 12.5% £72,031 and above 13.5%

20.3

In paragraph (3A)—

20.3.a

after “the scheme year 2022/23” insert  “(from 1 November 2022) and scheme
year 2023/24 and each subsequent scheme year” ;

20.3.b

for the table in paragraph (3A), substitute—

Table Scheme Year 2022/23 (from 1 November 2022) and Scheme Year 2023/24 and
each subsequent scheme year Column 1 Pensionable earnings band Column 2
Contribution percentage rate Up to £13,246 5.1% £13,247 to £16,831 5.7%
£16,832 to £22,878 6.1% £22,879 to £23,948 6.8% £23,949 to £28,223 7.7%
£28,224 to £29,179 8.8% £29,180 to £43,805 9.8% £43,806 to £49,245 10.0%
£49,246 to £56,163 11.6% £56,164 to £72,030 12.5% £72,031 and above 13.5%

#### Amendment of regulation 31

21

21.1

Regulation 31 (members’ contributions: practitioners and non-GP providers)  is
amended as follows.

21.2

In paragraph (9)—

21.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “each scheme year from 2015/16 to 2021/22, Table 1”
substitute  “the scheme year 2022/23, Table 1A and Table 1B as applicable” ;

21.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the scheme year 2022/23” substitute  “scheme year
2023/24 and each subsequent scheme year”

21.2.c

for the heading “Table 1 Scheme Years from 2015/16 to 2021/22” substitute
“Table 1A Scheme Year 2022/23 from 1 April 2022 to 31 s October 2022 (both
dates inclusive)” ;

21.2.d

after Table 1, insert—

Table 1B Scheme Year 2022/23 from 1 November 2022 to 31 March 2023 (both dates
inclusive) Column 1 Column 2 Pensionable earnings band Contribution percentage
rate Up to £13,246 5.1% £13,247 to £16,831 5.7% £16,832 to £22,878 6.1%
£22,879 to £23,948 6.8% £23,949 to £28,223 7.7% £28,224 to £29,179 8.8%
£29,180 to £43,805 9.8% £43,806 to £49,245 10.0% £49,246 to £56,163 11.6%
£56,164 to £72,030 12.5% £72,031 and above 13.5%

21.2.e

in the heading for Table 2, for “Year 2022/23” substitute  “Year 2023/24 and
each subsequent scheme year” .

21.2.f

For Table 2, substitute—

Column 1 Column 2 Pensionable earnings band Contribution percentage rate Up to
£13,246 5.1% £13,247 to £16,831 5.7% £16,832 to £22,878 6.1% £22,879 to
£23,948 6.8% £23,949 to £28,223 7.7% £28,224 to £29,179 8.8% £29,180 to
£43,805 9.8% £43,806 to £49,245 10.0% £49,246 to £56,163 11.6% £56,164 to
£72,030 12.5% £72,031 and above 13.5%

#### Amendment of regulation 67

22

In regulation 67 (effect of being absent or leaving and rejoining scheme
during contributions payment period) in paragraph (1)(e) after “parental
leave” insert  “or shared parental leave” .

#### Amendment of regulation 104

23

In regulation 104 (previous earnings: general), in paragraph (7), in the
definition of “re-valued pensionable earnings”, omit “and Personnel” and after
“by order” insert  “(in respect of the HSC Pension Scheme 2015)” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 7

24

24.1

Schedule 7 (pension accounts) is amended as follows.

24.2

(2) In paragraph 1 (interpretation)—

24.2.a

for the definition of “index adjustment” substitute—

“ index adjustment ” means— in relation to the opening balance of earned
pension for a scheme year (other than the opening balance of club transfer
earned pension), the percentage increase or decrease in prices specified in an
order (in respect of the HSC Pension Scheme 2015) made by the Department of
Finance under section 9(2) of the 2014 Act in relation to the previous scheme
year, plus 1.5%; and in relation to the opening balance of club transfer
earned pension for a scheme year, the adjustment that is— equal to the
adjustment that would apply to the opening balance of that amount of earned
pension under the sending scheme for the previous scheme year, and; applied to
the opening balance of club transfer earned pension on the same day as the
percentage increase or decrease referred to in paragraph (a).

24.2.b

in the definition of “AP index adjustment”, after “in an order”, insert  “(in
respect of the HSC Pension Scheme 2015)”  and omit  “and Personnel” .

24.3

In paragraph 3 (meaning of “ leaver index adjustment ”)—

24.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in Step 1, after “in an order”, insert  “(in respect of
the HSC Pension Scheme 2015)”  and omit  “and Personnel” ;

24.3.b

for sub-paragraph (2), substitute—

24.3.b.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (2A), the leaver index adjustment for an amount of
club transfer accrued earned pension is—

24.3.b.2.a

equal to the adjustment that would apply under the sending scheme to an amount
of accrued earned pension equal to the amount of club transfer accrued earned
pension specified in the active member’s account at the end of the relevant
last day; and

24.3.b.2.b

applied to the amount of club transfer earned pension at the end of the
relevant last day on the same day as the percentage increase or decrease
referred to in the definition of index adjustment in paragraph 1(a).

.

24.3.c

after paragraph (b) insert –

24.3.c.2A

If the amount of the leaver index adjustment under sub-paragraph (1) or (2) is
an amount that is less than zero, the amount of the leaver index adjustment
for the purposes of that sub-paragraph paragraphs is zero.

24.4

In paragraph 4 (meaning of “ leaver AP index adjustment ”), in sub-paragraph
(2)(b), after “in an order”, insert  “(in respect of the HSC Pension Scheme
2015)”  and omit  “and Personnel” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 8

25

In Schedule 8 (practitioner income) in paragraph 3—

25.a

in sub-paragraph (3)(b) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental
leave,” ;

25.b

in sub-paragraph (4)(b) after “parental leave,” insert  “shared parental
leave,” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 13

26

In Schedule 13  (definitions)—

26.a

at the appropriate place in Column 1, insert  “shared parental leave” , and
for the corresponding entry in Column 2 insert “means leave under section 107E
or 107G of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

### Modifications of member contribution provisions in the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

27

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
are modified in accordance with this Part.

#### Application and expiry of modifications in this Part

28

The modifications in this Part apply only—

28.a

for the purposes of members’ contributions payable under the Health and Social
Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 in respect of the
scheme year 2022/23;

28.b

until the end of 31 st  March 2025.

#### Modification of regulation 31

29

Regulation 31 (members’ contributions: practitioners and non-GP providers)  is
to be read as if—

29.a

in paragraph (3), for “the scheme year in question” there were substituted
“each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 and for the scheme year
2023/24” ;

29.b

after paragraph (9), there were inserted—

29.b.9A

For the purposes of this regulation, the “ relevant period of the scheme year
2022/23 ” means the period—

29.b.9A.a

beginning with 1 April 2022 and ending with 31October 2022 (both dates
inclusive);

29.b.9A.b

beginning with 1 November 2022 and ending with 31 March 2023 (both dates
inclusive).

;

29.c

in paragraph (10), at the end, there were inserted “and references to the
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 in regulations 37 and 38 must be
construed in accordance with paragraph (9A)”.

#### Modification of regulation 37

30

Regulation 37 (members’ contributions: supplementary: medical practitioners
and non-GP providers)  is to be read as if—

30.a

in paragraph (2)—

30.a.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “a scheme year” there were
substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

30.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), after “M’s pensionable earnings for” there were inserted
“each relevant period of” .

30.b

after paragraph (2), there were inserted—

30.b.2A

Paragraph (3A) applies if, in respect of the scheme year 2022/23, M—

30.b.2A.a

has certified M’s pensionable earnings in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule
10 and forwarded a record of the earnings to the Department; or

30.b.2A.b

was not required to certify M’s earnings in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule
10 but the Department has the figure that represents M’s pensionable earnings
for that year.

;

30.c

in paragraph (3)—

30.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “the scheme year in question” there
were substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

30.c.ii

for sub-paragraph (a), there were substituted—

30.c.ii.a

certified or final pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 uprated according to the formula:

P E N D R P × 365 where— PE is the certified or final amount of M’s
pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of the
scheme year 2022/23; NDRP is the number of days of M’s group D service in each
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23; and

;

30.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (b)—

30.c.iii.aa

after “received” there were inserted  “for each relevant period of the scheme
year 2022/23” ;

30.c.iii.bb

at the end, there were inserted—

,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are M’s certified or final
pensionable earnings from all group D sources for the relevant period

.

30.d

after paragraph (3), there were inserted—

30.d.3A

If paragraph (3) does not apply to M in respect of the scheme year 2022/23,
M’s contributions payable for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23
are those specified in column 2 of the relevant table in respect of the amount
of pensionable earnings referred to in column 1 of that table which
corresponds to the aggregate of—

30.d.3A.a

the pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of
the scheme year 2022/23 determined by applying the formula:

P E N D P S × N D R P

where— PE is the certified or final amount of M’s pensionable earnings from
all group D sources for the scheme year 2022/23; NDPS is the number of days of
M’s group D service in the scheme year 2022/23; NDRP is the number of days of
M’s group D service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23, and
uprated according to the formula: P E N D R P × 365 where— PE is M’s
pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of the
scheme year 2022/23 determined in accordance with this paragraph; NDRP is the
number of days of M’s group D service in each relevant period of the scheme
year 2022/23; and any additional pensionable earnings M is treated as having
received for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 during an absence
from work in accordance with regulation 28,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are determined by applying the
formula:

P E N D P S × N D R P

where— PE is the certified or final amount of M’s pensionable earnings from
all group D sources for the scheme year 2022/23; NDPS is the number of days of
M’s group D service in the scheme year 2022/23; NDRP is the number of days of
M’s group D service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23.

;

30.e

in paragraph (4), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “paragraph (3)
does” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A) do” ;

30.f

in paragraph (5)—

30.f.i

for “paragraph (2)(a) or (b) is”, there were substituted  “paragraphs (2)(a)
or (b) or (2A)(a) or (b) are” ;

30.f.ii

for “paragraph (3)” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A)” .

#### Modification of regulation 38

31

Regulation 38 (members’ contributions: supplementary: dental practitioners)
is to be read as if—

31.a

in paragraph (2)—

31.a.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “a scheme year” there were
substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

31.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), after “M’s pensionable earnings for” there were inserted
“each relevant period of” .

31.b

after paragraph (2), there were inserted—

31.b.2A

Paragraph (3A) applies if, in respect of the scheme year 2022/23, M—

31.b.2A.a

has reconciled or certified M’s pensionable earnings in accordance with Part 1
of Schedule 10 and forwarded a record of those earnings to the Department; or

31.b.2A.b

was not required to reconcile or certify M’s earnings in accordance with Part
1 of Schedule 10 but the Department has the figure that represents M’s
pensionable earnings for the scheme year.

;

31.c

in paragraph (3)—

31.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “the scheme year in question” there
were substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

31.c.ii

for sub-paragraph (a), there were substituted—

31.c.ii.a

reconciled, certified or final pensionable earnings from all group D sources
for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 uprated according to the
formula:

P E N D R P × 365

where— PE is the reconciled, certified or final amount of the dental
practitioner’s pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant
period of the scheme year 2022/23; NDRP is the number of days of dental
practitioner service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23; and

;

31.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (b)—

31.c.iii.aa

after “received” there were inserted  “for each relevant period of the scheme
year 2022/23” ;

31.c.iii.bb

at the end, there were inserted—

,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are M’s reconciled, certified
or final pensionable earnings from all group D sources for the relevant period

.

31.d

after paragraph (3), there were inserted—

31.d.3A

If paragraph (3) does not apply to M in respect of the scheme year 2022/23,
M’s contributions payable for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23
are those specified in column 2 of the relevant table in respect of the amount
of pensionable earnings referred to in column 1 of that table which
corresponds to the aggregate of—

31.d.3A.a

the pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of
the scheme year 2022/23 determined by applying the formula:

P E N D P S × N D R P

where— PE is the reconciled, certified or final amount of the dental
practitioner’s pensionable earnings from all group D sources for the scheme
year 2022/23; NDPS is the number of days of dental practitioner service in the
scheme year 2022/23; NDRP is the number of days of dental practitioner service
in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23, and uprated according to
the formula: P E N D R P × 365 where— PE is M’s pensionable earnings from all
group D sources for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 determined
in accordance with this paragraph; NDRP is the number of days of dental
practitioner service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23; and
any additional pensionable earnings M is treated as having received for each
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 during an absence from work in
accordance with regulation 28,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are determined by applying the
formula:

P E N D P S × N D R P

where— PE is the reconciled, certified or final amount of the dental
practitioner’s pensionable earnings from all group D sources for the scheme
year 2022/23; NDPS is the number of days of dental practitioner service in the
scheme year 2022/23; NDRP is the number of days of dental practitioner service
in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23.

;

31.e

in paragraph (4), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “paragraph (3)
does” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A) do” ;

31.f

in paragraph (5)—

31.f.i

for “paragraph (2)(a) or (b) is”, there were substituted  “paragraph (2)(a) or
(b) or (2A)(a) or (b) are” ;

31.f.ii

for “paragraph (3)” there were substituted  “paragraph (3) or (3A)” .

### Consequential Amendments in the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

32

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
are amended as follows.

#### Amendment of regulation 31

33

In regulation 31(5), (7)(b) and (8) in each place for “RHSCB” substitute
“Department” .

#### Amendment of regulation 32

34

In the table in regulation 32(6) and in regulation 32(8) for “RHSCB”
substitute  “Department” .

#### Amendment of regulation 37

35

In regulation 37(2)(a) and (b), (4) and (6) for “RHSCB” substitute
“Department” .

#### Amendment of regulation 38

36

In regulation 38(2)(a) and (b), (4) and (6) in each place for “RHSCB”
substitute  “Department” .

#### Amendment of regulation 83

37

In regulation 83(4)(b)(ii) for “RHSCB” substitute  “Department” .

#### Amendment of regulation 149

38

In regulation 149(2)(b) and (c), (3)(f) and (g) (in both places), (5), (6),
(7)(a), (9)(in both places), (10)(a) and (11)(a) for “RHSCB” substitute
“Department” .

#### Amendment of regulation 150

39

In regulation 150(10) for “RHSCB” substitute  “Department” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 5

40

In Schedule 5 omit paragraph 1(b).

#### Amendment of Schedule 8

41

In Schedule 8 for “RHSCB” substitute  “Department”  in—

41.a

paragraph 1, the definition of “ collaborative services ” (in both places) and
“commissioned services”;

41.b

paragraph 3(3);

41.c

paragraphs 6(2), (4)(c), (5)(a) and (7).

#### Amendment of Schedule 10

42

In Schedule 10 for “RHSCB” substitute ”Department” in—

42.a

paragraph 1(2);

42.b

paragraph 2(2);

42.c

paragraph 3(1);

42.d

paragraph 4(1), (3) and (4) (in both places);

42.e

paragraph 7(1)(b) (in both places), (2), (3)(a) and (b), (4)(a) and (b) (in
each place), (5)(b) (in both places), (6)(a) and (b) (in each place), (7),
(8)(in both places), (9)(a) (in both places) and (b), (10) and (11);

42.f

the heading and text of paragraph 9;

42.g

paragraph 10(2)(a).

#### Amendment of Schedule 13

43

In Schedule 13  (definitions) omit the definition of “RHSCB”

44

In Schedule 13 for “RHSCB substitute  “Department”  in the definition of—

44.a

APMS contract;

44.b

APMS contractor;

44.c

GMS practice;

44.d

locum Practitioner.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 9 March
2023         Philip Rodgers   A senior officer of the   Department of Health
The Department of Finance consents to the foregoing Regulations.       Sealed
with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 9 March 2023
Patrick Neeson   A senior officer of the   Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Health and Personal Social Services
(Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 (S.R  1995 No.95 ) (“ the
1995 Regulations ”), Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2008 ( S.R. 2008 No.256 ) (“ the 2008 regulations ”),
Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (
S.R. 2015 No.120 ) (“ the 2015 Regulations ”).

  Part 1 provides for citation, commencement and effect, including that some
provisions of this rule are to take effect retrospectively. Article 14(1) of
the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 and section 3(3) of the
Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 provide authority for
these regulations to take effect as a date earlier than the making of these
Regulations.

  Parts 2 and 3 make amendments to the 1995 Regulations and the 2008
Regulations, by including income from shared parental leave within pensionable
pay.

  Part 4 similarly amends the 2015 Regulations in relation to shared parental
leave. It also amends these regulations to update the member contribution
tiers in line with the AfC pay award and to make technical amendments in
relation to the calculation of the index adjustment of member balances.

  Part 5 makes temporary technical amendments in relation to the calculation
of practitioner contribution rates paid by members.

  Part 6 removes references to the Regional Health and Social Care Board
(which ceased to exist from 1 April 2022) and replaces these with references
to the Department.

