Title: The Charitable Incorporated Organisations (Notification Requirements: Social Housing) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-07-22
Description: These Regulations make provision related to certain constitutional and other business changes of private registered providers of social housing (“PRPs”) that are charitable incorporated organisations (“CIOs”) or involve CIOs. They require PRPs to notify the Regulator of Social Housing (“the Regulator”) of such changes. They also impose requirements on PRPs that are CIOs (“relevant CIOs”) and others to notify the Charity Commission for England and Wales (“the Commission”) that the RSH has been so notified, and make related provision.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1311

## The Charitable Incorporated Organisations (Notification Requirements: Social Housing) Regulations 2023

    Charities, England And Wales       Housing, England

  Made   4th December 2023

  Laid before Parliament   5th December 2023

  Coming into force   1st April 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 228(3)(d), 234(1), 235(2)(b), 246(1), (2)(d) and (3)(a)
and 347(3) of the Charities Act 2011 .           In accordance with section
348(4)(b)  of that Act, the Secretary of State has consulted such persons or
bodies of persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

### General

#### Citation, commencement, extent, application and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Charitable Incorporated Organisations
(Notification Requirements: Social Housing) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st April 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.4

Subject to paragraph (5), these Regulations apply in England and Wales.

1.5

Regulations 2, 4(1), 5(1), 6(2)(a), 7(2), 8 and 9 apply in England only.

1.6

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2008 Act ” means the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ;
“ the 2011 Act ” means the Charities Act 2011;           “ relevant CIO ”
means a CIO  that is a private registered provider of social housing .

### Communications with the Regulator of Social Housing and the Commission

#### Communications with the Regulator of Social Housing

2

Section 169D  of the 2008 Act applies in relation to notifications under
regulations 4(1), 5(1), 6(2)(a), 7(2) and 8 as it does to notifications under
the relevant sections of that Act.

#### Communications with the Commission

3

Regulation 7 of the Charitable Incorporated Organisations (General)
Regulations 2012  applies in relation to requirements to supply the Commission
with a statement under regulations 4(2), 5(3), 6(2)(b) and 7(3) as it does to
the requirement to send documents or information to the Commission under
section 207 of the 2011 Act.

### Notification and related requirements

#### Conversion of a relevant body into a CIO

4

4.1

A relevant PRP must notify the Regulator of Social Housing  if it passes a
relevant resolution to convert into a CIO.

4.2

A   relevant PRP   that applies to the Commission to be converted into a CIO,
and for the CIO’s registration as a charity, must supply the Commission with a
statement confirming that the Regulator of Social Housing has been notified in
accordance with paragraph (1).

4.3

The Commission must refuse such an application unless it is supplied with the
statement mentioned in paragraph (2).

4.4

In this regulation—

“ relevant PRP ” means a private registered provider of social housing that
is— a charitable company; or a community interest company within the meaning
of Part 2 of the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise)
Act 2004 ; “ relevant resolution ” means— in the case of a charitable company,
a resolution that complies with section 228(4) of the 2011 Act; in the case of
a community interest company, a resolution that complies with   regulation
4(4) of the Charitable Incorporated Organisations (Conversion) Regulations
2017 .

#### Amalgamation of CIOs

5

5.1

A relevant CIO must notify the Regulator of Social Housing if it passes a
resolution that complies with section 235(4) of the 2011 Act approving a
proposed amalgamation with one or more other CIOs.

5.2

Paragraph (3) applies where—

5.2.a

any two or more CIOs (“the old CIOs”) make an application under section 235 of
the Charities Act 2011; and

5.2.b

at least one of those CIOs is a relevant CIO.

5.3

The old CIOs must supply the Commission with a statement confirming that the
Regulator of Social Housing has been notified in accordance with paragraph
(1).

5.4

The Commission must refuse such an application unless it is supplied with the
statement mentioned in paragraph (3).

#### Transfer of relevant CIO’s undertaking

6

6.1

This regulation applies where a relevant CIO passes a resolution that complies
with section 240(3) of the 2011 Act that all its property, rights and
liabilities are to be transferred to another CIO.

6.2

The transferor CIO must—

6.2.a

notify the Regulator of Social Housing of the resolution mentioned in
paragraph (1); and

6.2.b

supply the Commission with a statement confirming that the Regulator of Social
Housing has been notified in accordance with sub-paragraph (a).

6.3

The Commission must refuse to confirm the resolution of the transferor CIO
unless it is supplied with the statement mentioned in paragraph (2)(b).

#### Receipt of another CIO’s undertaking by a relevant CIO

7

7.1

This regulation applies where a CIO that is not a private registered provider
of social housing passes a resolution that complies with section 240(3) of the
2011 Act that all its property, rights and liabilities are to be transferred
to a relevant CIO.

7.2

The relevant CIO must notify the Regulator of Social Housing of the resolution
mentioned in paragraph (1).

7.3

The transferor CIO must supply the Commission with a statement confirming that
the Regulator of Social Housing has been notified in accordance with paragraph
(2).

7.4

The Commission must refuse to confirm the resolution of the transferor CIO
unless it is supplied with the statement mentioned in paragraph (3).

#### Voluntary arrangements

8

A relevant CIO must notify the Regulator of Social Housing of any voluntary
arrangement under Part 1 of the Insolvency Act 1986 .

### Registration of successor bodies by the Regulator of Social Housing

#### Restructuring of CIOs: registration of successor bodies by the Regulator of Social Housing

9

9.1

Where the Regulator of Social Housing receives a notification under regulation
5 or 6, section 163A  of the 2008 Act applies with the modifications specified
in paragraph (2).

9.2

The modifications are as follows—

9.2.a

the heading has effect as if for “registered societies” there were substituted
“charitable incorporated organisations” ;

9.2.b

subsection (1) has effect as if there were substituted—

9.2.b.1

This section applies where—

9.2.b.1.a

a registered provider that is a CIO notifies the regulator  of a resolution
that complies with section 235(4) of the Charities Act 2011 approving a
proposed amalgamation with one or more other CIOs;

9.2.b.1.b

a registered provider that is a CIO notifies the regulator of a resolution
that complies with section 240(3) of that Act that all its property, rights
and liabilities are to be transferred to a CIO that is not a registered
provider.

9.2.c

subsection (3) has effect as if there were substituted—

9.2.c.3

In this section—

      “ CIO ” has the meaning given by section 204 of the Charities Act 2011;
“ the successor body ” means—         if the relevant resolution is a
resolution described in paragraph (a) of subsection (1), the body created by
virtue of that resolution or by virtue of that resolution and other
resolutions described in that paragraph, and           if the relevant
resolution is a resolution described in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), the
body to which the property, rights and liabilities of the registered provider
are to be transferred.

.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Scott of Bybrook   Parliamentary Under Secretary of
State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     4th December
2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision related to certain constitutional and other
business changes of private registered providers of social housing (“PRPs”)
that are charitable incorporated organisations (“CIOs”) or involve CIOs. They
require PRPs to notify the Regulator of Social Housing (“the Regulator”) of
such changes. They also impose requirements on PRPs that are CIOs (“relevant
CIOs”) and others to notify the Charity Commission for England and Wales (“
the Commission ”) that the RSH has been so notified, and make related
provision.

  Regulation 2 applies the Regulator’s powers in section 169D of the Housing
and Regeneration Act  2008 (c. 17)  to notifications under these Regulations.
This enables the Regulator to, for example, give directions about the period
within such notifications must be given and the content of those
notifications.

  Regulation 3 applies the Commission’s powers in regulation 7 of the
Charitable Incorporated Organisations (General) Regulations 2012 ( S.I.
2012/3012 ) to requirements to supply the Commission with information under
these Regulations. This means that the Commission may impose requirements
relating to the form, authentication and manner of sending the information
concerned to the Commission. It also requires the information to be supplied
to an address specified for the purpose by the Commission and makes provision
relating to the sending of information in electronic form.

  Regulation 4 imposes requirements relating to the conversion of a PRP that
is a charitable company or community interest company into a CIO. It requires
such a PRP to notify the Regulator if it passes a relevant resolution to
convert into a CIO. Such a PRP must supply a statement confirming that the
Regulator has been so notified when it applies to the Commission to be
converted into a CIO and for the CIO’s registration as a charity. The
Commission must refuse such an application unless it is supplied with that
statement.

  Regulation 5 imposes requirements relating to the amalgamation of two or
more CIOs when at least one of the CIOs that proposes to amalgamate is a PRP.
It requires a relevant CIO to notify the Regulator if it passes a relevant
resolution to amalgamate. It also requires the CIOs that propose to amalgamate
to supply a statement confirming that the Regulator has been so notified when
they apply to the Commission for amalgamation. The Commission must refuse such
an application unless it is supplied with that statement.

  Regulation 6 imposes requirements relating to the transfer of the
undertaking of a relevant CIO to another CIO. Where a relevant CIO passes a
relevant resolution to transfer its undertaking, it must notify the Regulator
of this and supply to the Commission a statement confirming that the Regulator
has been so notified. The Commission must refuse to confirm the relevant CIO’s
resolution unless it is supplied with that statement.

  Regulation 7 imposes requirements relating to the transfer of the
undertaking of a CIO that is not a PRP to a CIO that is. The PRP must notify
the Regulator that another CIO has passed a relevant resolution to transfer
its undertaking to it. The transferor must supply to the Commission a
statement confirming that the Regulator has been so notified. The Commission
must refuse to confirm the transferor’s resolution unless it is supplied with
that statement.

  Regulation 8 requires a relevant CIO that enters into a voluntary
arrangement under Part 1 of the Insolvency Act  1986 (c. 45)  to notify the
Regulator.

  Regulation 9 makes provision for the registration of successor bodies by the
Regulator in cases where CIOs (at least one of which is a PRP) propose to
amalgamate or a relevant CIO transfers its undertaking to a CIO that is not a
PRP.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

