Title: The Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: This Order, made on the application of Cornwall Council relates to the ports and harbours of Bude, Newquay, Penryn, Penzance, Prince of Wales Pier (in Falmouth), St Ives and Truro. It modernises and consolidates the statutory harbour powers applying in relation to all seven harbours, so that they will all be governed by Cornwall Council under the Order. The Order provides for:The jurisdiction (article 4 and Schedule 1) and general functions (article 5) of the Council as the statutory harbour authority for the harbours including plans of the harbours (including the harbour premises) which can be inspected during working hours at the office of the Marine Management Organisation, Lancaster House, Hampshire Court, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 7YH and the principal office of the Cornwall Council, New County Hall, Treyew Road, Truro TR1 3AY. The plans are also available electronically on the Council’s harbours website at www.cornwallharbours.co.uk.Establishing the constitution and governance arrangements of the Cornwall Harbours Board (articles 6 to 12 and Schedule 2).The establishment of one or more advisory bodies consisting of harbour stakeholders with which the Council are required to consult on material matters (article 13).Powers to vest in the Council relating to application of finances (article 14), establishment of the Port of Truro Reserve Fund, Port of Penryn Reserve Fund and a General Reserve Fund (articles 15 to 17), as well as borrowing powers (article 18).Powers relating to works including a power to dredge, moorings, aids to navigation, repair of landing places, works and dredging licensing and penalties for obstruction of works (articles 19 to 26 and 50 to 53).Modernised powers of management and control of the harbours to vest in the Council including provisions relating to parking places (article 27), removal of vehicles and vessels (article 28), and byelaws (articles 29 to 30 and Schedule 3).Powers of general direction for the Council and special direction for the harbour master (defined in article 2) for the regulation and management of the harbour (articles 31 to 36). A register of all in force general directions may be inspected during office hours at the relevant harbour office of the Council (article 31). This Order creates an offence of failing to comply with special or general directions, the penalty for which is a fine on summary conviction not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale (article 35). A defence of due diligence is available to a person charged under article 35 (article 35(2)).A modern suite of charging powers (articles 39 to 49) including exemptions from harbour dues (article 47) and prevention of sailing of vessels (article 49).Powers relating to development of land (article 54), power to grant tenancies and dispose of land (article 55), power to appropriate lands and works for particular uses, etc. (article 56), other commercial activities (article 57), and power to delegate functions (article 58).Powers relating to bunkering (article 59), disposal of wrecks (article 60), unserviceable vessels (article 61), removal of obstructions other than vessels (article 62), boarding of vessels or vehicles (article 63) and notices (article 64).Saving for Trinity House (article 65) and Crown Rights (article 66).To facilitate the above, the Order repeals and revokes the Acts and Orders set out in Schedule 4 and amends the St Ives (Pilotage) Harbour Revision Order 1988 (S.I. 1988/1500), the Penzance and Newlyn (Pilotage) Harbour Revision Order 1988 (S.I. 1988/1495) and the Stratton and Bude Improvement Act 1901 (1 Edw. 7. Ch. cclvii) (articles 67 and 68).Article 2(1) and Schedule 5 make clear that the “undertaking” means the undertaking for the time being of the Council relating to any or all of the harbours as authorised by this Order and the Acts and Orders listed in Schedule 5 (to the extent that those Acts and Orders relate to the harbours or any one of them).An impact assessment has not been prepared for this Order as there is no, or no significant, impact predicted on businesses, charities, voluntary bodies or the public sector.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/675

## The Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023

    Harbours, Docks, Piers And Ferries

  Made   19th June 2023

  Laid before Parliament   23rd June 2023

  Coming into force-   14th July 2023

      Cornwall Council has applied for a harbour revision order in accordance
with section 14(2)(a) of the Harbours Act 1964  (“ the Act ”).       The
Secretary of State, as the appropriate Minister for the purposes of that
section, has by an Order  made under section 42A of the Act  delegated the
functions of the appropriate Minister under section 14  to the Marine
Management Organisation .           The Marine Management Organisation, being
satisfied as mentioned in section 14(2)(b), and in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 14(1) and (3) of the Act, makes the following Order.

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023
and shall come into force on 14th July 2023.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ the Act of 1847 ” means the Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847 ; “
the Act of 1964 ” means the Harbours Act 1964; “ the Act of 1995 ” means the
Merchant Shipping Act 1995 ; “ aids to navigation ” includes lights, buoys,
beacons and signals including sound and electronic signals and any structure
required to house the same; “ ashore ” means all those parts of the harbours
which are not constituted of land covered by water at the level of low water;
“ the Board ” means the Cornwall Harbours Board constituted by Part 2; “ Bude
Harbour Limits Plan ” means the plan prepared in duplicate, signed on behalf
of the Marine Management Organisation and marked “Signed Bude Harbour Limits
Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023” one
copy of which is deposited with the offices of the Marine Management
Organisation and one copy at the principal office  of the Council; “ charges ”
means the charges, rates, tolls and dues which the Council is for the time
being authorised to demand, take and recover in relation to the undertaking; “
commercial refuelling activities ” means recharging or emptying (in whole or
part) a vessel with fuel in exchange for financial payment or other valuable
consideration; “ Cornwall Harbours User Group ” means the relevant
consultative body or bodies established by the Council in accordance with the
requirements of article 13 (advisory bodies); “ the Council ” means Cornwall
Council; “ electronic communications network ” has the meanings given by
section 32 of the Communications Act 2003  (meaning of electronics
communications networks and services); “ enactment ” means any enactment
whether public general or local and includes any order, byelaw, rule,
regulation, scheme or other instrument having effect by virtue of an
enactment; “ Existing Port of Penryn Reserve ” means the sum of £683,000 held
as a reserve fund at the date of this Order for the Port of Penryn; “ Existing
Port of Truro Reserve ” means the sum of £725,000 held as a reserve fund at
the date of this Order for the Port of Truro; “ financial year ” means any
period of 12 months ending on thirty first day of March; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “ general direction ” means a direction given
under article 31 (power to make general directions as to use of the harbours,
etc.); “ general reserve fund ” means the reserve fund to be established,
maintained and used by the Council under article 17 (general reserve fund); “
harbours ” means the ports and harbours of Bude, Newquay, Penryn, Penzance,
Portreath, Portscatho, Portwrinkle,  Prince of Wales Pier (in Falmouth), St
Ives and Truro, the limits of which are defined in Schedule 1 (limits of the
harbours);   “ Harbour Empowerment Order ” means the Portreath, Portscatho and
Portwrinkle Harbour Empowerment Order 2023;   “ harbour facilities ” means
shipping, fisheries, marine, recreational, leisure, tourism and retail
facilities (including buildings); “ harbour limits plans ” means the Bude
Harbour Limits Plan, the Newquay Harbour Limits Plan, the Port of Penryn
Harbour Limits Plan,  the Penzance Harbour Limits Plan,  the Portreath Harbour
Limits Plan, the Portscatho Harbour Limits Plan, the Portwrinkle Harbour
Limits Plan,  the Prince of Wales Pier Harbour Limits Plan, the St Ives
Harbour Limits Plan and the Port of Truro Harbour Limits Plans ; “ harbour
master ” means any person appointed as such by the Council, and includes the
duly authorised deputies and assistants of the harbour master and any person
for the time being authorised by the Council to act, either generally or for a
specific purpose, in the capacity of harbour master; “ harbour operations ”
includes— the marking, lighting or dredging of the harbours or any part
thereof; the berthing, storage, mooring or dry docking of a vessel; the laying
and maintenance of moorings or other similar apparatus in the harbour; the
warehousing, sorting, weighing or handling of goods; the movement of goods and
vehicles (including parking, designated and prohibited areas, speed limits,
removal from the harbours); the towing, or moving of a vessel; the loading or
unloading of goods, or embarking or disembarking of passengers; energy
generation or storage; the control of use of the harbours by members of the
public and other third parties (including movement, conduct, authorised
activities, designated and prohibited areas) but not so as to cause an
interference with any public right of way; “ harbour premises ” means land
above the level of low water within the areas shown outlined red on the
harbour limits plans for the time being vested in or occupied or administered
by the Council as part of the undertaking and occupied wholly or mainly for
the purpose of activities there carried on; which may include docks, quays,
piers, wharves, berths, locks, breakwaters, landing places, yards, roads, car
parks, sheds, buildings and all other works and conveniences, land and
premises, shown for illustrative purposes shaded green on the harbour limits
plans; “ harbours revenue ” means and includes all moneys receivable by the
Council for and in relation to the undertaking other than borrowed moneys and
moneys which ought to be carried to capital account; “ hovercraft ” means a
vehicle which is designed to be supported when in motion wholly or partly by
air expelled from the vehicle to form a cushion of which the boundaries
include the ground, water or other surface beneath the vehicle; “ land ”
includes land covered by water; “ level of high water ” means the level of
mean high water spring tides; “ level of low water ” means the level of mean
low water spring tides; “ master ” in relation to a vessel, means any person
having or taking command, charge, management or conduct of the vessel for the
time being; “ Newquay Harbour Limits Plan ” means the plan prepared in
duplicate, signed on behalf of the Marine Management Organisation and marked
“Signed Newquay Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours
Harbour Revision Order 2023” one copy of which is deposited at the offices of
the Marine Management Organisation and one copy at the principal office of the
Council; “ operator ” has the meaning given by paragraph 2 of Schedule 3A to
the Communications Act 2003 (the electronic communications code); “ Penzance
Harbour Limits Plan ” means the plan prepared in duplicate, signed on behalf
of the Marine Management Organisation and marked “Signed Penzance Harbour
Limits Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023”
one copy of which is deposited at the offices of the Marine Management
Organisation and one copy at the principal office of the Council; “ Port of
Penryn Harbour Limits Plan ” means the plan prepared in duplicate, signed on
behalf of the Marine Management Organisation and marked “Signed Port of Penryn
Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision
Order 2023” one copy of which is deposited at the offices of the Marine
Management Organisation and one copy at the principal office of the Council; “
Port of Penryn Reserve Fund ” means the reserve fund that may be established
and maintained by the Council for the Port of Penryn under article 16 (Port of
Penryn reserve fund); “ Port of Truro Harbour Limits Plans ” means the three
plans prepared in duplicate and signed on behalf of the Marine Management
Organisation, one copy of each of which is deposited at the offices of the
Marine Management Organisation and one copy of each at the principal office of
the Council, and marked respectively— the “Signed Port of Truro (Overview)
Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision
Order 2023”; the “Signed Port of Truro (North) Harbour Limits Plan referred to
in the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023”; and the “Signed Port of
Truro (South) Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours Harbour
Revision Order 2023”; “ Port of Truro Reserve Fund ” means the reserve fund
that may be established and maintained by the Council for the Port of Truro
under article 15 (Port of Truro reserve fund);   “ Portreath Harbour Limits
Plan ” means the plan prepared in duplicate, signed on behalf of the Marine
Management Organisation and marked “Signed Portreath Harbour Limits Plan
referred to in the Portreath, Portscatho and Portwrinkle Harbour Empowerment
Order 2023” one copy of which is deposited at the offices of the Marine
Management Organisation and one copy at the principal office of the Council;
“ Portscatho Harbour Limits Plan ” means the plan prepared in duplicate,
signed on behalf of the Marine Management Organisation and marked “Signed
Portscatho Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the Portreath, Portscatho and
Portwrinkle Harbour Empowerment Order 2023” one copy of which is deposited at
the offices of the Marine Management Organisation and one copy at the
principal office of the Council;     “ Portwrinkle Harbour Limits Plan ” means
the plan prepared in duplicate, signed on behalf of the Marine Management
Organisation and marked “Signed Portwrinkle Harbour Limits Plan referred to in
the Portreath, Portscatho and Portwrinkle Harbour Empowerment Order 2023” one
copy of which is deposited at the offices of the Marine Management
Organisation and one copy at the principal office of the Council;   “ Prince
of Wales Pier Harbour Limits Plan ” means the plan prepared in duplicate,
signed on behalf of the Marine Management Organisation and marked “Signed
Prince of Wales Pier Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the Cornwall Harbours
Harbour Revision Order 2023” one copy of which is deposited at the offices of
the Marine Management Organisation and one copy at the principal office of the
Council; “ special direction ” means a direction given under article 34
(special directions); “ statutory undertaker ” means— any person who is a
statutory undertaker for any of the purposes of the Town and Country Planning
Act 1990 ; a coast protection authority within the meaning of section 1 of the
Coast Protection Act 1949  (coast protection authorities); any operator of an
electronic communications network; “ St Ives Harbour Limits Plan ” means the
plan prepared in duplicate, signed on behalf of the Marine Management
Organisation and marked “Signed St Ives Harbour Limits Plan referred to in the
Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision Order 2023” one copy of which is deposited
at the offices of the Marine Management Organisation and one copy at the
principal office of the Council; “ Trinity House ” means the Corporation of
Trinity House of Deptford Strond ; “ undertaking ” means the harbours
undertaking for the time being of the Council relating to any or all of the
harbours as authorised by this Order and the Acts and Orders listed in
Schedule 5 (Acts and Orders) (to the extent that those Acts and Orders relate
to the harbours or any one of them); “ vehicle ” includes any vehicle
propelled on rails, any machinery on wheels or caterpillar tracks, trailers,
bicycles, caravans and mobile homes and includes a hovercraft or any other
amphibious vehicle; “ vessel ” includes a ship , boat, houseboat, raft or
craft of any description, however propelled or moved, and includes non-
displacement craft, watercraft, a hydrofoil vessel, or any amphibious vehicle
and any other thing constructed or adapted for floating on or being submersed
in water (whether permanently or temporarily); “ watercraft ” means any type
of craft which— is capable of moving under its own mechanical power; is used,
navigated or situated wholly or partially in or on water; and is capable of
being used to carry one or more persons, but does not include a ship or
fishing vessel within the meanings given in section 313(1) of the Act of 1995.

2.2

The definitions of the harbours in this Order shall apply to those Acts and
Orders listed in Schedule 5 (Acts and Orders) (to the extent those Acts and
Orders relate to the harbours or any one of them).

2.3

All situations, points, directions, distances, lengths, dimensions, areas and
other measurements stated in this Order shall be construed as if the words “or
thereabouts” were inserted after each such situation, point, direction,
distance, length, dimension, area or other measurement.

2.4

In this Order longitude and latitude are stated by reference to the World
Geodetic System (WGS84), revised in 1984 and further revised in 2004.

#### Incorporation of provisions of Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847

3

3.1

The Act of 1847 (except sections 6 to 26, 28 to 31, 42, 48 to 50, 67, 70, 84
to 92 and 99 to 102) (so far as applicable to the purposes and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Order) is incorporated with this
Order subject to the modifications stated in paragraphs (2) to (5).

3.2

Section 33 of the Act of 1847 (harbour, dock, and pier free to the public on
payment of rate) shall not apply to the Prince of Wales Pier.

3.3

Section 63 of the Act of 1847 (penalty on vessels lying near the entrance of
harbour or dock without permission) shall have effect subject to the
modification that for the words from “liable to” to the end of the section
there are substituted the words  “guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale” .

3.4

Section 69 of the Act of 1847 (combustible matters on quays, &c., to be
removed) shall have effect subject to the modification that for the words from
“shall forfeit” to the end of the section there are substituted the words
“shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the
standard scale” .

3.5

In construing the provisions of the Act of 1847 as incorporated with this
Order—

3.5.a

the expression “ the special Act ” means this Order;

3.5.b

the expression “ the undertakers ” means the Council;

3.5.c

the expression “ the harbour, dock, or pier ” shall mean the harbours, and
includes those docks, piers, berths, quays, landing places and wharves forming
part of the harbour premises;

3.5.d

for the definition of the word “vessel” in section 3 of the Act of 1847
(interpretation) there shall be substituted the definition of that word in
article 2(1) of this Order;

3.5.e

the reference in section 53 of the Act of 1847 (penalty on shipmasters not
complying with directions of the harbour master) to notice of a direction by
the harbour master served upon a vessel shall not be construed as requiring
the notice to be in writing if in the circumstances it is not reasonably
practicable for the harbour master to serve a written notice on the master,
and in such circumstances the said reference may be construed as including the
communication of the notice orally or otherwise.

### HARBOURS JURISDICTION, GENERAL FUNCTIONS, ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTITUTION OF BOARD AND ADVISORY BODIES

#### Harbours Jurisdiction

4

4.1

The Council shall exercise jurisdiction as a harbour authority within the
meaning of section 57 of the Act of 1964 (interpretation), and the powers of
the harbour master shall be exercisable within the harbours, the limits of
which are described in Schedule 1 to this Order (limits of the harbours) and
shown on the harbour limits plans.

4.2

In the event of any discrepancy between the descriptions of the boundaries of
the harbours referred to in Schedule 1 (limits of the harbours) and the
boundaries shown on the harbour limits plans the limits as shown on the
harbour limits plans shall be deemed to be correct and shall prevail.

4.3

For and incidental to the performance of its functions under this Order, the
Council may employ and appoint harbour masters.

4.4

The Council shall, within the harbours, be a local lighthouse authority within
the meaning of sections 193 (general and local lighthouse authorities) and 201
(powers of harbour authorities) of the Act of 1995.

#### General functions

5

5.1

The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Order, take all such steps
from time to time as it considers necessary or desirable for the maintenance,
operation, management and improvement of the harbours and the harbour
facilities provided within or in connection with the harbours, and for the
conservation of the harbours’ flora, fauna and geological and physiographical
features of special interest.

5.2

For those purposes and without limiting the scope of paragraph (1), the
Council may—

5.2.a

improve, maintain, regulate, manage, mark and light the harbours and provide
harbour facilities therein;

5.2.b

subject to obtaining the necessary rights in or over land—

5.2.b.i

execute and place in and over the harbours such structures, works and
equipment as are required, and

5.2.b.ii

operate, maintain, renew, alter, extend, demolish and reconstruct structures,
harbour facilities, works and equipment in the harbours including those
executed or placed in accordance with sub-paragraph (i),

5.2.c

acquire land;

5.2.d

do all other things which in its opinion are expedient to facilitate the
operation, improvement or development of the undertaking.

5.3

The Council must, from time to time, formulate, publish and review a business
plan or business plans (“Harbours Business Plan”)  in relation to its
maintenance, conservation, operation, management and improvement of the
undertaking, which it must have regard to when performing its functions.

5.4

In the exercise of the powers of sub-paragraph (2)(b), the Council must not—

5.4.a

interfere with, damage or otherwise injuriously affect any apparatus belonging
to or maintained by any statutory undertaker;

5.4.b

do anything which obstructs or impedes any work relating to the inspection or
repair of any such apparatus, without the consent of the statutory undertaker
concerned.

5.5

This article is without limitation of the powers of the Council under or by
virtue of any other enactment.

#### Establishment of a Board

6

6.1

Within 12 weeks of this Order coming into force the Council must establish a
Board of between 10 and 12 members constituted and appointed as provided for
within this Order and they and their successors from time to time appointed
under this Order shall be called the “ Cornwall Harbours Board ”.

6.2

The purpose of the Board shall be to administer the harbours on behalf of the
Council with the powers that can be exercised by the Board set out in Schedule
2 (provisions applying to the Board).

#### Composition of the Board

7

7.1

From the establishment of the Board, the composition of the Board shall be as
follows—

7.1.a

five or six members of the Council; and

7.1.b

five or six independent lay members.

7.2

Each person appointed under paragraph (1) must be a person who appears to the
Council to have special knowledge, experience or ability appropriate to the
efficient, effective and economic discharge by the Board of its functions
including, but not limited to, special knowledge, experience or ability in one
or more of the following matters—

7.2.a

maritime industry and activities;

7.2.b

commerce;

7.2.c

health and safety;

7.2.d

management;

7.2.e

public relations and community issues;

7.2.f

industrial relations;

7.2.g

shipping, fishing or cargo handling;

7.2.h

accountancy or financial management;

7.2.i

boating and other water related leisure activities;

7.2.j

environmental matters affecting harbours;

7.2.k

any other skills and abilities considered from time to time by the Council to
be relevant to the discharge by the Board of its functions.

7.3

The Council must secure, so far as reasonably practicable, that the persons
appointed by it under paragraph (1) between them have special knowledge,
experience and ability in a broad and complementary range of matters relevant
to the efficient, effective and economic discharge by them of the Board’s
functions.

7.4

In making an appointment under paragraph (1)(b) the Council must act in
accordance with, and in making an appointment under paragraph (1)(a) the
Council must have regard to, any guidance issued by the Secretary of State
from time to time with regards to exercise of such functions.

7.5

All members of the Board appointed under paragraph (1) shall be bound by the
Code of Conduct for Cornwall Council members and co-opted members (or
replacement) in force at that time.

#### Non-voting Co-opted members

8

From the establishment of the Board, the Board may from time to time co-opt no
more than five persons to attend Board meetings as additional (non-voting)
attendees for a fixed term of up to 12 months.

#### Terms of office for Board members

9

9.1

The first appointments to the Board made by the Council under article 7(1)(a)
must be made within 12 weeks of this Order coming into force, with the terms
of the members appointed continuing until the next annual meeting of the
Council.

9.2

At the annual meeting of the Council referred to in paragraph (1) the terms of
the members appointed to the Board by the Council in accordance with article
7(1)(a) shall be until the end of the current administrative period of the
Council.

9.3

All subsequent appointments made to the Board by the Council in accordance
with article 7(1)(a) must be made for a term of office until the end of the
administrative period of the Council during which the appointment takes place.

9.4

The first appointments made to the Board in accordance with article 7(1)(b)
must be made within 12 weeks of this Order coming into force.

9.5

Those appointed under article 7(1)(b) shall initially serve for the following
terms—

9.5.a

one or two independent lay members for a term of one year;

9.5.b

two independent lay members for a term of two years;

9.5.c

two independent lay members for a term of three years.

9.6

All subsequent appointments made under article 7(1)(b) unless the appointment
is made to fill a casual vacancy shall be made for a period of three years
with a maximum period of three consecutive terms of three years being allowed,
the third term only in exceptional circumstances following public
advertisement of the role and a competitive appointment process.

#### Casual vacancies

10

10.1

A casual vacancy arising in the office of a duly appointed member of the Board
must, unless it is not reasonably practicable to do so, be filled by the
appointment of a Board member by the Council in accordance with the
requirements of articles 7 (composition of the Board) and 9 (terms of office
for Board members).

10.2

If a member of the Board appointed under article 7(1)(a) ceases to be a member
of the Council or is suspended or disqualified from being a councillor, the
Council must appoint a replacement member at its next meeting, whose term
shall run until the end of the administrative period of the Council during
which the appointment takes place.

10.3

A member of the Board appointed to fill a casual vacancy under this article
shall, if appointed under article 7(1)(b) hold office as a member of the Board
for the remainder of the term of the member of the Board in whose place that
person has been appointed.

#### Disqualification or removal of Board members

11

11.1

If the Board is satisfied that a member of the Board—

11.1.a

appointed under article 7(1)(a) ceases to be a member of the Council or
becomes suspended or disqualified from the Council;

11.1.b

appointed under article 7(1)(b) becomes bankrupt;

11.1.c

appointed under article 7(1)(b) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness
from discharging their duties as a member of the Board and the Board does not
consider there is merit from the Board exercising its powers under paragraph
(2) and as set out in Schedule 2 (provisions applying to the Board);

11.1.d

has been absent from any meeting of the Board for six consecutive months or
more than three meetings in any 12 month period without the permission of the
Board;

11.1.e

has been removed in accordance with the Council’s constitution,

that member shall be disqualified from being a member of the Board.

11.2

If the Board is satisfied that any member of the Board—

11.2.a

has acted in a manner which has seriously impeded or prejudiced the Board in
the performance of its functions;

11.2.b

has failed to declare an interest or to comply with the standards of behaviour
required for members of the Board;

11.2.c

has acted in a manner which may bring the Board into disrepute or which is
inappropriate having regard to the functions of the Board;

11.2.d

is otherwise unable, unwilling or unfit to discharge adequately their duties
as a member of the Board,

the Council may, or the Board may by resolution request the Council in writing
to, remove a member appointed under article 7(1) and on removal of the member
treat the vacancy as a casual vacancy.

#### Meetings of the Board

12

Meetings of the Board shall be governed by the provisions as set out in
Schedule 2 (provisions applying to the Board).

#### Advisory bodies

13

13.1

The Council must establish one or more advisory bodies which the Council must
(except in an emergency) consult on all matters substantially affecting the
management, maintenance, improvement, conservation, protection or regulation
of the harbours and their navigation.

13.2

The Council must make arrangements for every such advisory body to meet not
less than twice a year.

13.3

The Council must take into consideration within a reasonable period any
matter, recommendation or representation which may from time to time be
referred or made to it by such an advisory body whether or not that advisory
body has been consulted by the Council on the matter, recommendation or
representation so referred or made.

13.4

Any advisory body established under this article must consist of such number
or numbers of persons appointed by the Council as the Council from time to
time considers appropriate.

13.5

Appointments to any such advisory body must be made by the Council in
accordance with a scheme prepared by it for that purpose and the scheme must
provide for the appointment of persons who, in the opinion of the Council, are
representative of persons having an interest in the functioning of the
harbours.

13.6

Any such advisory body may determine its own quorum and procedure and must
appoint a chair.

13.7

An individual member of any such advisory body may hold office for the period
of three years from the date of their appointment and at the end of that
period shall be eligible for reappointment.

13.8

A member of any such advisory body may resign their office at any time by
notice in writing given to the Council.

### FINANCIAL

#### Application of finances

14

The Council must apply the harbours revenue in the manner following and not
otherwise—

14.a

first in payment of the working and establishment expenses and cost of
maintenance of the harbours;

14.b

secondly in payment of the interest on any moneys borrowed by the Council for
the harbours under any statutory borrowing power;

14.c

thirdly in payment of all other expenses properly chargeable to harbours
revenue;

14.d

fourthly to the general reserve fund established under article 17 (general
reserve fund).

#### Port of Truro Reserve Fund

15

15.1

The Council may establish and maintain a Port of Truro Reserve Fund and carry
to it the Existing Port of Truro Reserve.

15.2

Any reserve fund established or maintained under this article must be applied
by the Council in its discretion—

15.2.a

in or towards payment of the cost of renewing, improving, extending or
replacing any part of the works forming part of the Port of Truro or any
vessels, plant or equipment of the Council connected to the Port of Truro;

15.2.b

for improving the operational area and the navigation of the Port of Truro and
the approaches to the Port of Truro;

15.2.c

for any other lawful purpose sanctioned by the Council and connected with the
Port of Truro.

#### Port of Penryn Reserve Fund

16

16.1

The Council may establish and maintain a Port of Penryn Reserve Fund and carry
to it the Existing Port of Penryn Reserve.

16.2

Any reserve fund established or maintained under this article must be applied
by the Council in its discretion—

16.2.a

in or towards payment of the cost of renewing, improving, extending or
replacing any part of the works forming part of the Port of Penryn or any
vessels, plant or equipment of the Council connected to the Port of Penryn;

16.2.b

for improving the operational area and the navigation of the Port of Penryn
and the approaches to the Port of Penryn;

16.2.c

for any other lawful purpose sanctioned by the Council and connected with the
Port of Penryn.

#### General reserve fund

17

17.1

The Council must establish and maintain a general reserve fund.

17.2

The Council must carry to the general reserve fund such part of the harbours
revenue as may be available for the purpose in accordance with article 14(d).

17.3

Any reserve fund established or maintained under this article must be applied
by the Council in its discretion—

17.3.a

in or towards meeting any deficiency in the harbours revenue account in any
year;

17.3.b

to meet any extraordinary claim or demand in respect of the undertaking;

17.3.c

in or towards payment of the cost of renewing, improving, extending or
replacing any part of the works forming part of the undertaking or any
vessels, plant or equipment of the Council connected to the undertaking;

17.3.d

for improving the operational area and the navigation of the harbours and the
approaches to the harbours;

17.3.e

for any other lawful purpose sanctioned by the Council and connected with the
undertaking.

#### Borrowing

18

18.1

The Council may from time to time, for the general purposes of the
undertaking, borrow upon the security of all or any of the harbours revenue
and property and by any method or methods which it sees fit such sums of money
as it considers necessary.

18.2

Moneys borrowed under paragraph (1) may be applied only to purposes to which
capital money is properly applicable.

18.3

Without limiting the scope of paragraph (2), purposes to which capital money
is properly applicable shall be deemed to include—

18.3.a

any major works of repair or maintenance of any part of the works forming part
of the undertaking;

18.3.b

the payment of any interest falling due within the five years immediately
following the date of the borrowing of any sum of money borrowed by the
Council under this article;

18.3.c

the repayment within 12 months from the date of borrowing of any sum for the
time being outstanding by way of principle on any amount previously borrowed;

18.3.d

a payment relating to pensions paid or to be paid to past or present employees
of the Council whose employment related to the undertaking or to the family or
dependants of such persons.

### HARBOURS REGULATION

#### Aids to navigation

19

19.1

In addition to its powers under section 201 of the Act of 1995 (powers of
harbour authorities as local lighthouse authorities) but subject to obtaining
any necessary interest in or over land, the Council may erect or place, alter,
discontinue or remove aids to navigation in any place adjacent to the
harbours.

19.2

The Council must not exercise the powers of paragraph (1) without the approval
of Trinity House.

#### Repair of landing places, etc.

20

20.1

In this article, “ relevant feature ” means any landing place, jetty, wall,
pontoon, pile, embankment, bridge, structure or other work in the harbours or
on land immediately adjoining the waters of the harbours other than one under
the control or management of the Council.

20.2

The Council may by notice require the owner, lessee or occupier of a relevant
feature which in the opinion of the Council is, or is likely to become, by
reason of its insecure condition or want of repair—

20.2.a

dangerous to persons or vessels using the harbours;

20.2.b

a hindrance to the navigation of the harbours,

to remedy its condition to the Council’s reasonable satisfaction within a
reasonable time, not being less than 21 days, specified in the notice.

20.3

If a person to whom notice is given under this article fails without
reasonable excuse to comply with the notice within the time stated in the
notice or such other time as the Secretary of State on an appeal may
substitute therefore—

20.3.a

that person shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
level 3 on the standard scale; and

20.3.b

the Council may carry out the work required by the notice and may recover the
expenses of so doing from the person on whom the notice was served.

20.4

A notice under this article must have annexed to it a copy of this article.

20.5

A person aggrieved by a notice served by the Council under this article may,
during the period of 21 days beginning with the date on which the notice was
served, appeal to the Secretary of State against the notice.

20.6

An appeal under paragraph (5) must be made by notice in writing stating the
grounds of the appeal.

20.7

A person who appeals under paragraph (5) must give to the Council notice of
the appeal accompanied by a copy of the statement of appeal; and the Council
shall, within 21 days of receipt of the notice, be entitled to furnish to the
Secretary of State its observations on the appeal.

20.8

On an appeal under paragraph (5), the Secretary of State shall either quash
the notice, modify its requirements or dismiss the appeal.

20.9

In this article “owner”, “lessee” and “ occupier ”, in relation to a relevant
feature, means the person who was the “owner”, “lessee” or “occupier” of the
relevant feature at the date the notice is served, or if the “owner”, “lessee”
or “occupier” of the relevant feature is not readily identifiable, the
“owner”, “lessee” or “occupier” of the land on which the relevant feature is
situated at the date the notice is served.

#### Restriction of works and dredging

21

21.1

Subject to paragraph (3), no person other than the Council shall, on, under,
in or over tidal waters or land below the level of high water in the harbours—

21.1.a

construct, alter, renew or extend any works, unless that person is licensed to
do so by a works licence and except upon the terms and conditions, if any,
upon which the licence is granted and in accordance with plans, sections and
particulars approved under article 23 (licensing of works);

21.1.b

dredge, unless that person is licensed to do so by a dredging licence and
except upon the terms and conditions, if any, upon which the licence is
granted and in accordance with the plans, sections and particulars approved
under article 24 (licence to dredge).

21.2

The Council may by notice require a person who contravenes this article to
remove, abate or rectify, within a reasonable time specified in the notice,
any work, operation or omission to which the contravention relates and to
restore the site thereof to its former condition; and if that person fails to
comply with the notice, the Council may carry out the works so required and
may recover from that person the cost of so doing.

21.3

Nothing in this article shall apply to—

21.3.a

any operations or works specifically authorised by any enactment;

21.3.b

any operations or works of a statutory undertaker;

21.3.c

any operations or works authorised by a moorings licence granted under article
52 (power to licence moorings).

21.4

Any person who without reasonable excuse contravenes this article shall be
guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
level 4 on the standard scale.

#### Control of certain operations and works of statutory undertakers

22

22.1

This article applies to any operations or works in the harbours of a statutory
undertaker on, under, in or over tidal waters or land below the level of high
water, not being operations or works which are specifically authorised by an
enactment.

22.2

Subject to paragraph (3), a statutory undertaker must not carry out any
operations or works to which this article applies unless it has given notice
of its intention to do so to the Council and has supplied the Council with
such particulars as it may reasonably require.

22.3

Where, in an emergency, it is impracticable to give notice as required by
paragraph (2), the statutory undertaker must inform the Council of the
operations or works as soon as reasonably practicable.

22.4

Any operations or works to which this article applies shall be carried out
subject to any directions which may from time to time be given by the Council
to the statutory undertaker, being directions for the avoidance of danger and
the prevention, so far as possible, of interference with navigation in the
carrying out of such operations or works.

22.5

Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes this article shall be
guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding
level 3 on the standard scale.

#### Licensing of works

23

23.1

The Council may upon such terms and conditions as it thinks fit grant to any
person a licence to construct, alter, renew or extend any works in the
harbours on, under, in or over tidal waters or land below the level of high
water, notwithstanding that the works as constructed, altered, renewed, or
extended, interfere with the public right of navigation or any other public
right.

23.2

An application for a works licence must be made in writing to the Council and
must—

23.2.a

be accompanied by plans, sections and particulars of the works to which the
application relates; and

23.2.b

specify whether the applicant holds such rights in, under or over land as are
necessary to enable the applicant to enjoy the benefits of the licence and, if
not, the action taken to enable the applicant to obtain such rights if the
licence is granted,

and, in granting a licence, the Council may require modifications in the
plans, sections and particulars so submitted.

23.3

The Council may require an applicant for a works licence, on making the
application, to pay a reasonable fee in respect of the administrative expenses
of dealing with the application.

23.4

As a condition of the granting of a licence, the Council may require a
licensee, being an applicant to whom a licence has been granted or the
applicant’s successor, where works are to be constructed in accordance with
the licence, to pay such reasonable fees in respect of the Council’s
administrative expenses and overheads in supervising or inspecting where
necessary the construction or maintenance of the works.

23.5

Where the Council refuses to grant a works licence which has been applied for
it must give reasons in writing for its refusal.

23.6

Where the Council grants a works licence upon terms or conditions or requires
any modification in the plans and particulars, it must give reasons in writing
for the terms and conditions imposed or the modifications required.

23.7

If within 16 weeks from the receipt of the application under paragraph (2) the
Council does not grant a works licence, it shall be deemed to have refused the
application.

23.8

When carrying out operations pursuant to a works licence, the holder of the
licence must not—

23.8.a

interfere with, damage or otherwise injuriously affect any apparatus belonging
to or maintained by any statutory undertaker;

23.8.b

do anything which obstructs or impedes any work relating to the inspection or
repair of any such apparatus,

without the consent of the statutory undertaker concerned.

#### Licence to dredge

24

24.1

The Council may upon such terms and conditions as it thinks fit grant to any
person a licence to dredge in any part of the harbours.

24.2

An application for a dredging licence must be made in writing to the Council
and must be accompanied by plans, sections and particulars defining the
nature, extent and manner of the operations to be carried out in the exercise
of the powers granted by the licence, and in granting any such licence the
Council may require modifications in the plans, sections and particulars so
submitted.

24.3

Paragraphs (3) to (8) of article 23 (licensing of works) shall apply in
relation to a dredging licence as they apply in relation to a works licence.

24.4

Any materials, other than wreck within the meaning of Part IX of the Act of
1995 (salvage and wreck), taken up or collected by means of dredging pursuant
to a dredging licence—

24.4.a

shall be the property of the holder of the licence; and

24.4.b

the holder of the licence may use, sell or otherwise dispose of or remove or
deposit the materials as they think fit provided that no such material shall
be laid down or deposited in any place within the harbours below the level of
high water except—

24.4.b.i

in such positions as may be approved by the Council, and

24.4.b.ii

subject to such conditions as may be imposed by the Council.

24.5

If it appears to the holder of the dredging licence that the Council has
unreasonably withheld or refused its approval under paragraph (4) or that any
condition imposed by the Council under that paragraph is unreasonable, that
person may within 28 days from the date on which the Council notifies the
applicant of its decision, appeal to the Secretary of State whose decision
shall be binding upon the parties.

24.6

Paragraphs (2) to (5) of article 25 (appeals in respect of works or dredging
licence) shall apply in relation to any appeal made under paragraph (5).

#### Appeals in respect of works or dredging licence

25

25.1

An applicant for a works licence or a dredging licence who is aggrieved by—

25.1.a

a refusal of the Council to grant a licence;

25.1.b

any terms or conditions subject to which the licence is granted;

25.1.c

any modifications required by the Council in the plans, sections and
particulars submitted by the applicant,

may, within 28 days from the date on which the Council notifies the applicant
of its decision or the date on which the Council is, under article 23(7),
deemed to have refused the application, appeal to the Secretary of State.

25.2

An appeal under paragraph (1) must be made by notice in writing stating the
grounds of the appeal.

25.3

The appellant must send to the Council a copy of the notice of the appeal; and
the Council may, within 28 days of the receipt of the notice, furnish to the
Secretary of State its observations on the appeal.

25.4

The Secretary of State may confirm, vary or revoke the decision appealed
against and may make such consequential amendments as the Secretary of State
may specify.

25.5

The Secretary of State may direct the Council to give effect to the decision,
and the Council must forthwith comply with any direction given.

#### Obstruction of works

26

Any person who intentionally obstructs any person acting under the authority
of the Council in setting out the lines of, or in construction of any works
authorised by any enactment, or who interferes with, moves or removes any
pole, stake, station point or bench mark established for the purposes of such
setting out, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to
a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

#### Parking places and related facilities

27

The Council may provide facilities within the harbours for the parking of
vehicles and for that purpose may erect barricades or fencing with related
offices, waiting rooms and other conveniences and may make reasonable charges
for the use of such facilities.

#### Removal of vehicles and vessels

28

28.1

If a vehicle or vessel is left within the harbours without permission of the
Council—

28.1.a

in any place where it is likely to obstruct or interfere with the use of the
harbours;

28.1.b

in any part of the harbours where the parking of vehicles or leaving of
vessels is prohibited by notice erected by the Council,

the Council may, at the risk of the owner, remove the vehicle or vessel or
cause it to be removed.

28.2

Any notice erected under paragraph 1(b) must be conspicuously posted in or
close to the place to which it relates.

28.3

Where the Council in exercise of the powers of this article remove a vehicle
or vessel or cause it to be removed it must as soon as practicable report that
fact to the police.

28.4

The reasonable expenses of and incidental to the removal of a vehicle or
vessel under this article shall be recoverable from any person responsible.

28.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4) “ person responsible ” means—

28.5.a

the owner of the vehicle or vessel at the time when it was put in the place
from which it was removed under paragraph (1);

28.5.b

any person by whom the vehicle or vessel was put in that place.

28.6

If the Council in the exercise of the powers conferred by this article remove
a vehicle to a place not readily visible from the place whence it is so
removed the Council must, as soon as it is reasonably practicable to do so,
send to the person for the time being registered as the keeper of the vehicle
for the purposes of the Road Vehicles (Registration and Licensing) Regulations
2002  or any other regulations having the like effect for the time being in
force—

28.6.a

at that person’s last known address;

28.6.b

the person’s registered address; or

28.6.c

the address where the vehicle is ordinarily kept,

notice that it has exercised the powers of the article and of the place to
which the vehicle has been removed.

28.7

A notice stating the general effect of paragraph (1) must be displayed in a
prominent position at each place where a road accessible to vehicles enters
any part of the harbours.

#### Power to make byelaws

29

29.1

The Council may make such byelaws as it thinks fit for the efficient
management and regulation of the harbours.

29.2

Without limitation to the scope of paragraph (1), the Council may make byelaws
under this article for any of the purposes set out in Schedule 3 (purposes for
which byelaws may be made) but such byelaws shall not come into operation
until the same have received the confirmation of the Secretary of State which
shall be sufficient for all purposes.

29.3

In this article “ signals ” includes sound signals.

29.4

Byelaws made under this article may—

29.4.a

provide for imposing upon a person offending against them, or against any
condition, requirement or direction imposed, made or given thereunder, a fine
not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale on summary conviction;

29.4.b

relate to the whole of the harbours or to any part thereof;

29.4.c

make different provisions for different parts of the harbours or in relation
to different classes of vessels or vehicles;

29.4.d

otherwise make different provision for different circumstances.

29.5

Where a person is charged with an offence against a byelaw in force under this
article, it shall be a defence for the person to prove that—

29.5.a

they took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid
the commission of such an offence;

29.5.b

they had a reasonable excuse for their act or failure to act;

29.5.c

the offence was not caused or facilitated by any act or neglect on their part
or on the part of any person engaged or employed by them and that all
reasonable steps were taken to prevent the commission of the offence.

29.6

The powers in the article are in addition to the powers conferred by section
83 of the Act of 1847 (byelaws may be made for all or any of the purposes
herein named).

#### Confirmation of byelaws

30

30.1

The provisions contained in subsections (3) to (8) of section 236 (procedure
etc. for byelaws) and section 238 (evidence of byelaws) of the Local
Government Act 1972  shall apply to all byelaws made after the coming into
force of this Order, by the Council under this Order or section 83 of the Act
of 1847 (byelaws may be made for all or any of the purposes herein named).

30.2

In its application to byelaws made under this Order or section 83 of the Act
of 1847 (byelaws may be made for all or any of the purposes herein named),
section 236 (procedure etc. for byelaws) shall have effect, subject to
paragraph (3), as if after the word “confirm” in subsection 236(7) in the
first place where that word occurs there were inserted the words  “with or
without modification” .

30.3

Where the confirming authority proposes to make a modification which appears
to the confirming authority to be substantial, then—

30.3.a

the confirming authority must inform the Council and require it to take any
steps the confirming authority thinks necessary for informing persons likely
to be concerned with that modification;

30.3.b

the confirming authority must not confirm the byelaws until there has elapsed
such period as the confirming authority thinks reasonable for the Council and
other persons who have been informed of the proposed modifications to consider
and comment on it.

30.4

The confirming authority for the purposes of this article and of section 236
(procedure etc. for byelaws) in its application to byelaws made under this
Order or section 83 of the Act of 1847 (byelaws may be made for all or any of
the purposes herein named) shall be the Secretary of State.

#### Power to make general directions as to use of the harbours, etc.

31

31.1

The Council may, in accordance with the requirements of article 32 (procedure
for giving, amending or revoking general directions), give a direction for—

31.1.a

the ease, convenience or safety of navigation;

31.1.b

the safety of persons;

31.1.c

the protection of property, flora or fauna;

31.1.d

the ease, convenience or safety of harbour operations ashore,

within the harbours.

31.2

A direction under this article may apply—

31.2.a

to all vessels or to a class of vessel;

31.2.b

to all vehicles or to a class of vehicle;

31.2.c

to persons designated in the direction;

31.2.d

to the whole of the harbours or to a part;

31.2.e

at all times or at certain times or at certain states of the tide,

and every direction must specify the extent of its application including its
geographical extent in relation to the matters referred to in sub-paragraphs
(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e).

31.3

The Council may amend or revoke a direction given under paragraph (1).

31.4

The Council must keep and make available for inspection at each harbour office
and on its harbours website a public register of all in force general
directions .

#### Procedure for giving, amending or revoking general directions

32

32.1

Subject to paragraph (7), if the Council proposes to give, amend or revoke a
general direction, it must—

32.1.a

give notice in writing of the proposal and a plan of the area over which the
proposal applies to the “designated consultees” them being—

32.1.a.i

the Chamber of Shipping,

32.1.a.ii

the Royal Yachting Association,

32.1.a.iii

the Cornwall Harbours User Group, and

32.1.a.iv

to such other persons or organisations as it considers appropriate for the
purposes of the application of this provision,

32.1.b

place a notice of the proposal on the Council’s harbours website and in
prominent locations at each harbour to which the proposal applies on the same
date as the notice given in accordance with sub-paragraph (a) and keep that
notice on display for a minimum of 6 weeks;

32.1.c

consult with the designated consultees upon the proposal and allow a period of
not less than 6 weeks beginning with the date of the notices given in
accordance with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) for written representations to be
made by the designated consultees and any other persons to the Council
regarding the proposal;

32.1.d

have regard to all representations made during consultation;

32.1.e

give notice in writing to the designated consultees and to those other persons
that have provided a consultation response, following consultation as to
whether the Council proposes to proceed with the proposal and, if so,
specifying whether it is making any modifications to the proposal and its
reasons for so doing; and

32.1.f

if the Council proposes to proceed with the proposal and a designated
consultee has made representations against the proposal, invite that
designated consultee to confirm in writing whether they maintain their
objection to the proposal within 28 days beginning with the date of the notice
given in accordance with sub-paragraph (e), or such longer period as the
Council may specify.

32.2

Where the Council has complied with paragraph (1), it may proceed to give,
amend or revoke a general direction if—

32.2.a

none of the designated consultees have made representations against the
proposal;

32.2.b

none of the designated consultees which made representations against the
proposal have confirmed in writing that they are maintaining their objection
to the proposal in accordance with paragraph (1)(f); or

32.2.c

where a designated consultee has maintained an objection in accordance with
paragraph (1)(f), the requirements of paragraph (3) have been complied with.

32.3

Where a designated consultee has confirmed in writing to the Council that they
maintain their objection to a proposal—

32.3.a

the issue must be referred to an independent person (“ the adjudicator ”)
appointed—

32.3.a.i

by agreement between the Council and each designated consultee maintaining an
objection in accordance with paragraph (1)(f) (“ the parties ”), or

32.3.a.ii

failing agreement, by the President of the London Maritime Arbitrators
Association on the application of any of the parties,

32.3.b

so far as is reasonably practicable within 12 weeks beginning with the date of
the referral, the adjudicator must—

32.3.b.i

provide a reasonable opportunity for the parties to make representations to or
be heard by the adjudicator at a hearing, and

32.3.b.ii

make a written report to the parties with findings and recommendations on the
issue, and

32.3.c

the Council must decide whether to exercise the power to give, amend or revoke
the general direction having regard to the adjudicator’s report (but it is not
bound to give effect to any recommendations) and, once it has decided, must
give notice in writing to the designated consultees and to any other person
that provided a consultation response of its decision and the reasons for that
decision.

32.4

Except as otherwise provided for in paragraph (3), the adjudicator may
determine the procedure for the making of representations and the conduct of
any hearing.

32.5

The costs incurred by the adjudicator and the parties from a referral under
paragraph (3) are to be paid by one or more of the parties as the adjudicator
may direct.

32.6

If the Council wishes to exercise the power to give, amend or revoke a general
direction in a form materially different from both the form notified to the
designated consultees under paragraph (1)(e), and where paragraph (3) applies,
the form recommended by the adjudicator under paragraph (3)(b), it must
proceed, as if the proposal is a new proposal to which paragraph (1) applies.

32.7

Paragraphs (1) to (6) do not apply where in the interests of navigational
safety, or safety of persons the Council proposes to give or amend a general
direction—

32.7.a

in an emergency; or

32.7.b

relating to an intended activity or operation within the harbours if—

32.7.b.i

the intended activity or operation is expected to commence within 16 weeks of
the Council having been notified or otherwise becoming aware of the intended
activity or operation,

32.7.b.ii

the intended activity or operation is to last less than 28 days, and

32.7.b.iii

the Council considers that the giving or amending of a general direction in
relation to the intended activity or operation is required, taking into
account other activities or operations in the harbours which may be affected.

32.8

Where the Council proceeds to give or amend a general direction in accordance
with paragraph (7), it must—

32.8.a

as soon as is reasonably practicable give notice of the direction or amendment
to those persons who would have been designated consultees had paragraph
(1)(a) applied; and

32.8.b

if the direction or amendment is intended to continue in force for more than
12 weeks, apply the procedure under paragraphs (1)(c) to (f) and (2) to (6) to
the direction or amendment with the following modifications—

32.8.b.i

a reference to the ‘proposal’ in those paragraphs is to be read as a reference
to the direction or amendment,

32.8.b.ii

in paragraph (1)(c), for “sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)” substitute  “paragraph
(8)(a)” , and

32.8.b.iii

a reference to the Council ‘proceeding’ with a proposal is to be read as a
reference to the Council determining that the direction or amendment should
remain in force.

#### Publication of general directions

33

33.1

Subject to paragraph (4), the Council must publish a notice of the giving,
amendment or revocation of a general direction as soon as reasonably
practicable on one occasion in a newspaper circulating in the area of the
harbours to which the proposal relates and electronically on the Council’s
harbours website for the period of 28 days beginning with the date of
publication of the notice in the newspaper.

33.2

The notice must state a place at which copies of the general direction may be
inspected.

33.3

The Council must display notices of general directions that apply to harbour
premises at prominent locations within the harbours.

33.4

In an emergency, the Council may give notice of the giving or amendment of a
general direction in any manner which it considers to be appropriate.

#### Special directions

34

34.1

The harbour master may give a special direction in respect of a vessel
anywhere in the harbours for any of the following purposes—

34.1.a

requiring a person to comply with a requirement made in or under a general
direction;

34.1.b

regulating or requiring the movement, anchorage, berthing, mooring or
unmooring of the vessel;

34.1.c

regulating the loading, discharging, storing and safeguarding of its cargo,
fuel, water or stores, and the dispatch of its business at the harbour
premises;

34.1.d

specifying the precautions to be taken in respect of apparatus, machinery and
equipment;

34.1.e

prohibiting, extinguishing, or restricting the use of fires or lights;

34.1.f

regulating the use of ballast;

34.1.g

requiring the removal from any part of the harbours if the vessel—

34.1.g.i

is on fire,

34.1.g.ii

is in such condition as to be liable to become immobilised or waterlogged, to
sink or to constitute a danger to life or property,

34.1.g.iii

is making an unlawful use of the harbours or interfering with the reasonable
use or enjoyment of the harbours by other vessels or persons or the dispatch
of business in the harbours,

34.1.g.iv

needs to be removed to enable maintenance or repair work to be carried out to
the harbours,

34.1.h

requiring the vessel to be removed to a place outside the harbours if such
removal is considered by the harbour master to be necessary in order to avoid
danger to life (including wildlife) or to property.

34.2

A special direction relating to a vessel must specify a particular person or
persons to whom the direction is addressed, either by name or by a description
sufficient to enable the person or persons in question to be identified.

34.3

A special direction may be given in any manner considered by the harbour
master to be appropriate.

34.4

The harbour master may revoke or amend a special direction.

#### Failure to comply with directions

35

35.1

A person who fails to comply with a general direction or a special direction
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.

35.2

In any proceedings for an offence under paragraph (1), it shall be a defence
for the person charged to prove that they took all reasonable precautions and
exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of the offence.

#### Enforcement of special directions

36

36.1

Without limitation to any other remedy available to the Council, if a special
direction is not complied with within a reasonable time, the harbour master
may put persons on board the vessel to carry out the direction or may
otherwise cause the vessel to be handled in accordance with the direction.

36.2

If there is no-one on board a vessel to comply with a special direction, the
harbour master may proceed as if the direction had been given and not complied
with, provided that the powers of this paragraph must not be exercised—

36.2.a

in relation to a vessel other than a lighter unless, after reasonable inquiry
has been made, the master cannot be found;

36.2.b

in relation to a lighter unless it is obstructing or interfering with
navigation.

36.3

Expenses incurred by the Council in the exercise of the powers conferred by
paragraph (1) shall be recoverable by the Council as if it were a charge of
the Council in respect of the vessel.

#### Master’s responsibility in relation to directions

37

The giving of a general direction or a special direction shall not diminish or
in any other way affect the responsibility of the master of the vessel to
which the direction is given in relation to the vessel, to persons on board
the vessel, to the cargo or any other person or property.

#### Saving for existing directions, byelaws etc.

38

Any general direction, special direction, byelaw, regulation, licence, lease,
consent or other agreement made, issued, entered into or granted by the
Council in relation to the undertaking and in force immediately on or before
or on the date on which this Order comes into force, shall, notwithstanding
the amendments set out in article 67 (amendment of Act and Orders) and the
repeals and revocations set out in article 68 (revocation / repeal) and
Schedule 4 (revocation / repeal), continue to have effect.

### CHARGES

#### Charges other than ship, passenger and goods dues

39

The Council may demand, take and recover in respect of any dracone or floating
dock, crane, rig, drilling rig, or floating platform, a chain ferry or any
other vessel, not being a ship as defined by section 57(1) of the Act of 1964,
entering, using, operating within or leaving the harbours such reasonable
charges as it may determine, and sections 30 (duty of harbour and local
lighthouse authorities to make available for inspection, and to keep for sale,
copies of lists of certain charges) and 31 (right of objection to ship,
passenger and goods dues) of the Act of 1964 shall with all necessary
modification apply to the charges authorised by this article as they may apply
to ship, passenger and goods dues demanded under section 26 of the Act of 1964
(repeal of provisions limiting discretion of certain harbour authorities as to
ship, passenger and goods dues charged by them).

#### Charges for services or facilities

40

In addition to article 39 (charges other than ship, passenger and goods dues)
of this Order and its power to demand ship, passenger and goods dues under
section 26 of the Act of 1964 (repeal of provisions limiting discretion of
certain harbour authorities as to ship, passenger and goods dues), the Council
may demand, take and recover such reasonable charges for services and
facilities provided by the Council at the harbours or in connection with the
undertaking as it may from time to time determine.

#### Setting of charges

41

The Council when setting its charges, including ship, passenger and good dues
under section 26 of the Act of 1964 (repeal of provisions limiting discretion
of certain harbour authorities as to ship, passenger and goods dues) at each
of the harbours—

41.a

is not limited to solely taking account of the viability of the harbour at
which the charges apply;

41.b

may take account of the overall viability of the undertaking,

provided that the Council must so far as reasonably practicable ensure that
the harbours revenue received from each harbour is sufficient year on year to
cover the working and establishment expenses and cost of maintenance of that
harbour.

#### Payment of charges

42

42.1

The charges which the Council is for the time being authorised to demand, take
and recover in respect of vessels and goods or otherwise under any enactment—

42.1.a

are payable before the removal from the harbours of any vessel or goods in
respect of which they are payable;

42.1.b

may be demanded, taken and recovered—

42.1.b.i

by such persons,

42.1.b.ii

at such places,

42.1.b.iii

at such times,

42.1.b.iv

under such terms and conditions,

as the Council may from time to time specify in its published list of charges.

42.2

Charges payable to the Council in respect of—

42.2.a

a vessel, shall be payable by the owner or master;

42.2.b

goods, shall be payable by the owner, consignee or shipper of the goods.

42.3

Where charges payable to the Council may be recovered by it from more than one
person, the persons from whom they may be recovered shall be jointly and
severally liable.

42.4

Without limitation to the scope of paragraph (1), the terms and conditions as
to the payment of charges which the Council may from time to time specify may
include the time when a charge falls due for payment and may require such
information to be given to the Council by the owner or master of a vessel or a
person using a service or facility of the Council as the Council may require
in connection with the assessment or collection of a charge.

42.5

Where charges payable to the Council have not been paid by the time they fall
due for payment, the Council may detain within or refuse entry to, or require
removal from the harbours of—

42.5.a

the vessel or goods to which the charges relate; and

42.5.b

any other vessels or goods that the owner or master of the vessel or goods to
which the charges relate is also the owner or master of,

until such charges have been paid in full.

#### Compounding arrangements and rebates

43

43.1

The Council may confer total or partial exemptions from, allow rebates to or
make compositions with any person with respect to charges, and may vary or
extinguish any such exemption, rebate or composition.

43.2

Nothing in section 30 of the Act of 1964 (duty of harbour and local lighthouse
authorities to make available for inspection, and to keep for sale, copies of
lists of certain charges) shall require the Council to include in the list of
ship, passenger and goods dues, as required by subsection (1) of that section
ship, passenger and goods dues—

43.2.a

reduced by a total or partial exemption;

43.2.b

subject to a compounding arrangement or rebate.

#### Deposit for charges

44

44.1

The Council may, if it thinks fit, require a person who incurs or is about to
incur a charge to deposit with it, or to guarantee, such sum of money as is,
in the opinion of the Council, reasonable having regard to the amount or
probable amount of the charge.

44.2

Where such a person fails to deposit or guarantee the sum of money required,
the Council may detain in the harbours the vessel or goods to which the charge
relates, or refuse entry to, or require removal from the harbours in respect
of the vessel or goods, until the requirement has been complied with or the
charge paid.

#### Liens for charges

45

45.1

A person who by agreement with the Council collects charges on their behalf
and who pays or gives security for the payment of charges on goods in that
person’s possession shall have a lien on those goods for the amount paid or
security given in respect thereof.

45.2

A wharfinger or carrier who is not personally liable for the payment of
charges may pay or by agreement with the Council give security for charges on
goods in that person’s custody, and in that event that person shall have a
like lien on the goods for the amount of those charges as they would have in
respect of the charges for safe custody or carriage of the goods, as the case
may be.

#### Refusal to pay charges for landing place etc.

46

The harbour master may prevent a vessel from entering the harbours or using a
landing place, mooring or other facility provided by the Council, if the
master of the vessel refuses to pay the charges for such use.

#### Exemptions from harbour dues

47

47.1

Except insofar as may be agreed between the Council and the government
department or person concerned the Council shall not be entitled to demand
harbour dues from, or in respect of—

47.1.a

a vessel—

47.1.a.i

in the service of HM Revenue and Customs or the Secretary of State for Defence
in the execution of their core duties and not carrying persons or goods for
reward,

47.1.a.ii

belonging to or used by a lifeboat service whilst employed in or in connection
with the core functions of that service,

47.1.a.iii

in the service of a police force or other emergency service in the execution
of their core duties and not carrying persons or goods for reward,

47.1.b

HM Revenue and Customs or any officer or other person employed in their
service in execution of their core duties in respect of a vessel or goods
under customs seizure, or in respect of goods or other articles belonging to,
or in the care or service of, HM Revenue and Customs;

47.1.c

an officer of HM Revenue and Customs or any other person employed in their
service while in the execution of their core duties;

47.1.d

a person employed by the Secretary of State for Defence while in the execution
of their core duties;

47.1.e

Officers of the Department for Transport in the execution of their core
duties.

47.2

In this article “ harbour dues ” means ship, passenger and goods dues which
the Council may demand under section 26 of the Act of 1964 (repeal of
provisions limiting discretion of certain harbour authorities as to ship,
passenger and goods dues charged by them).

#### Recovery of charges

48

48.1

In addition to any other remedy given by this Order and by the Act of 1847 as
incorporated with this Order, the Council may recover any charges payable to
it as a debt in any court of competent jurisdiction.

48.2

Where the master of a vessel in respect of which a charge is payable to the
Council refuses or neglects to pay the same or any part thereof, paragraph (1)
applies whether or not the Council’s collector has gone on board the vessel
and demanded the charge under section 44 of the Act of 1847 (recovery of
tonnage rates by distraint of ship and tackle).

#### Harbour master may prevent sailing of vessels

49

The harbour master may prevent the removal or sailing from the harbours of any
vessel until evidence has been produced to the harbour master of the payment
of any charges payable in respect of—

49.a

the vessel;

49.b

passengers of the vessel;

49.c

goods imported or exported on the vessel.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Power to dredge

50

50.1

The Council may, as appears to it to be necessary or desirable for the
purposes of the undertaking, deepen, widen, dredge, scour, cleanse, alter and
improve the harbours below the level of high water.

50.2

Subject to paragraph (3), all materials dredged up or removed by the Council
in exercise of the powers of this article shall be the property of the Council
and may be used, sold, deposited or otherwise disposed of as the Council may
think fit.

50.3

No such materials shall be laid down or deposited in contravention of the
provisions of any enactment as respects to the disposal of waste.

50.4

The exemption in section 75 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009
(exemptions for certain dredging etc activities) shall not apply to the
harbours of Portreath, Portscatho and Portwrinkle.

#### Power to lay moorings

51

51.1

The Council may provide, place, lay down, maintain, retain, renew, use, have
and remove such moorings within the harbours—

51.1.a

on land owned or leased by it; and

51.1.b

with the consent in writing of the owner and lessee thereof, on any other land
in the harbours,

as it considers necessary or desirable for the convenience of vessels.

51.2

The Council may demand, receive and recover in respect of any vessel using any
of the moorings provided under this article or moored to land owned or leased
by the Council such reasonable charges as the Council may from time to time
prescribe.

51.3

The Council may compound with any person with respect to the payment of the
charges prescribed under paragraph (2).

51.4

The Council may give notice in writing to the person having the control of any
vessel using any mooring in the harbours at the date this Order comes into
force requiring that person within 28 days to remove the mooring so as to
enable the Council to provide moorings in accordance with paragraph (1).

51.5

The Council must offer to make available to the person having the control of
the vessel referred to in the notice a mooring provided by it under paragraph
(1) as soon as such mooring has been laid down.

51.6

If any person fails to comply with a notice given by the Council under this
paragraph, the Council may at any time after the expiration of 28 days from
the date of the giving of the notice remove the mooring referred to in that
notice.

#### Power to licence moorings

52

52.1

The Council may from time to time grant to a person with or without conditions
a licence to place, lay down, maintain, retain, renew, use and have existing
and future moorings, for vessels in the harbours.

52.2

Nothing in any licence granted under paragraph (1) shall entitle a person to
place, lay down, maintain, retain, renew or use and have any mooring on land
not owned or leased by that person or by the Council or which that person is
not entitled to use for that purpose.

52.3

A licence granted under paragraph (1) shall be valid only for a period of a
maximum of one year commencing with the date on which it is granted.

52.4

The Council may charge for a licence granted under paragraph (1) such
reasonable fee as the Council may from time to time prescribe.

52.5

In respect of moorings already lawfully laid down in the harbours at the date
this Order comes into force (‘an original mooring’), a licence under paragraph
(1) must be obtained by the owner or user of the mooring within three months
of that date and thereafter renewed annually.

52.6

In considering an application for a licence under paragraph (1) made in
respect of an original mooring the Council must not refuse to grant a licence
to retain the original mooring in the same location as situated at the date of
this Order unless it is satisfied that the placing, laying down, maintenance,
retention, renewal or use of the original mooring to which the application
relates would constitute a danger to or interfere with the navigation of
vessels in the harbours.

#### Offences as to moorings

53

53.1

Any person who—

53.1.a

intentionally obstructs any person acting under the authority of the Council
in setting out moorings;

53.1.b

intentionally and without lawful authority pulls up or removes any mooring in
the harbours;

53.1.c

without reasonable excuse causes or permits a vessel to be moored in the
harbours except at a mooring provided or licensed by the Council under article
51 (power to lay moorings) or 52 (power to licence moorings);

53.1.d

places, lays down, maintains, retains, renews or has in the harbours any
mooring not provided or licensed by the Council under this article,

shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

53.2

If any person commits an offence under sub paragraph (1)(d), the Council may
remove the mooring in question and recover from that person the expenses
incurred in doing so.

53.3

In articles 51 (power to lay moorings), 52 (power to licence moorings) and
this article “ mooring ” includes any buoy, pile, post, chain, pillar, pontoon
or like apparatus or convenience used or capable of being used for the mooring
of vessels.

#### Development of land etc.

54

54.1

The Council may, subject to obtaining the necessary rights in or over land—

54.1.a

use or develop for any purpose, and deal with, any land within or in the
vicinity of the harbours;

54.1.b

form, invest in and promote, or join with another person in forming, investing
in and promoting, a company for using or developing for any purpose, and
dealing with, any land within or in the vicinity of the harbours,

provided that it is conducive to the improvement, maintenance, operation or
management of the harbours in an efficient and economical manner.

54.2

Except as is otherwise provided by any enactment or rule of law, the powers of
the company referred to in paragraph (1)(b) may include powers to do anything
necessary or expedient for the purposes of the objects mentioned in that
paragraph or for purposes incidental to those purposes, notwithstanding that
the Council would not itself have the power to do that thing.

#### Powers to grant tenancies and dispose of land

55

55.1

The Council may, for the purposes of or in connection with the carrying on of
the undertaking, lease or grant the use or occupation of, or any right or
interest in or over, any lands, works, buildings, machinery, equipment or
other property forming part of the harbours for such period, at such rents and
other considerations and on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.

55.2

A lease or grant made or given under paragraph (1) may include provisions
delegating to the lessee or grantee any of the functions of the Council other
than those specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (f) of paragraph 9B of Schedule
2 to the Act of 1964 (functions which cannot be delegated under a power
conferred by a harbour revision order).

55.3

The Council may also dispose of, or grant the use or occupation for any
purpose of, any lands, works, buildings, machinery, equipment or other
property vested in it if it considers that—

55.3.a

the property is surplus to that which is required for the purpose of the
harbours; or

55.3.b

it would conduce to the improvement, maintenance, operation or management of
the harbours in an efficient and economical manner for the property to be held
by a person other than the Council,

for such consideration and on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.

#### Power to appropriate lands and works for particular uses, etc.

56

56.1

Notwithstanding anything in any statutory provision of local application the
Council may from time to time for the purposes of or in connection with the
carrying on of the undertaking set apart and appropriate any part of the
harbours for the time being vested in, or occupied or administered by the
Council as part of the undertaking for the exclusive, partial or preferential
use and accommodation of any particular trade, person, vessel or class of
vessels, or goods, subject to the payment of such charges and subject to such
terms, conditions and regulations as the Council may think fit.

56.2

No person or vessel shall make any use of any part of the harbours so set
apart or appropriated without the consent of the harbour master or other duly
authorised officer of the Council and—

56.2.a

the harbour master, or as the case may be, such officer, may order any person
or vessel making use of the harbours without such consent to leave or be
removed;

56.2.b

the provisions of section 58 of the Act of 1847 (harbour master may remove
vessels within docks, &c.) shall extend and apply with the necessary
modifications to and in relation to such vessels.

#### Other commercial activities

57

57.1

The Council may, in addition to any other powers conferred on the Council—

57.1.a

carry on at any place a trade or business of any kind including a trade or
business carried on in conjunction with another person;

57.1.b

form, invest in and promote, or join with another person in forming, investing
in and promoting, a company, for carrying on any part of the undertaking or
carrying on at any place a trade or business of any kind,

provided that it is conducive to the improvement, maintenance, operation or
management of the harbours in an efficient and economical manner.

57.2

Except as is otherwise provided by any enactment or rule of law, the powers of
a company referred to in paragraph (1)(b) may include powers to do anything
necessary or expedient for the purposes of the objects mentioned in that
paragraph or for purposes incidental to those purposes, notwithstanding that
the Council would not itself have the power to do that thing.

57.3

The powers of the Council under this article are additional to the powers of
the Council under section 37 of the Docks and Harbours Act 1966  (powers of
harbour authorities to acquire a harbour business or shares in a harbour
business).

#### Power to delegate functions

58

Subject to paragraph 9B of Schedule 2 to the Act of 1964 (functions which
cannot be delegated under a power conferred by a harbour revision order), the
Council may delegate the performance of any of its functions to be carried out
by any such company as is referred to in article 57(1)(b).

#### Bunkering

59

59.1

The Council may from time to time grant to a person with or without conditions
a licence to carry out commercial refuelling activities related to vessels in
the harbours.

59.2

Nothing in any licence granted under paragraph (1) shall entitle a person to
carry out commercial refuelling activities from or on land not owned or leased
by that person or by the Council or in which that person has no interest.

59.3

Any licence granted under paragraph (1) shall be valid only for a period of
one year commencing with the date on which it is granted.

59.4

The Council may charge for a licence granted under paragraph (1) such
reasonable fee as the Council may from time to time prescribe.

59.5

Any person who without reasonable excuse carries out or permits a commercial
refuelling activity related to a vessel in the harbours except in accordance
with a licence issued by the Council under this article, shall be guilty of an
offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on
the standard scale.

#### Power with respect to disposal of wrecks

60

60.1

In its application to the Council, section 252 of the Act of 1995 (powers of
harbour and conservancy authorities in relation to wrecks) has effect in
relation to the harbours and its approaches in relation to a vessel sunk,
stranded or abandoned before, as well as after, the coming into force of this
Order.

60.2

Subject to paragraph (3), and to any enactment for the time being in force
limiting a person’s liability, the Council may recover from the owner of any
vessel sunk, stranded or abandoned on or after the date of coming into force
of this Order in relation to which it has exercised its powers under section
252 of the Act of 1995 (powers of harbour and conservancy authorities in
relation to wrecks) any expenses reasonably incurred by it under that section
in relation to that vessel which are not reimbursed out of any proceeds of
sale within the meaning of that section.

60.3

Except in a case which is in the opinion of the Council an emergency,
paragraph (2) shall not apply in relation to any vessel unless, before
exercising in relation to that vessel any of the powers conferred on it by
section 252 of the Act of 1995 (powers of harbour and conservancy authorities
in relation to wrecks) other than the power of lighting and buoying, the
Council has given to the owner of the vessel not less than 48 hours’ notice of
its intention to do so.

60.4

If before the notice expires the Council receive from the owner counter-notice
in writing that the owner desires to dispose of the vessel themselves, the
owner shall be at liberty to do so; and the Council must not exercise the
powers in section 252 of the Act of 1995 (powers of harbour and conservancy
authorities in relation to wrecks) in relation to that vessel until the
expiration of seven days from the receipt of the counter-notice and of any
further continuous period thereafter during which the owner of the vessel
proceeds with the disposal thereof with all reasonable diligence and in
compliance with any directions for the prevention of interference with
navigation which may be given to the owner by the Council.

60.5

Notice under paragraph (3) to the owner of any vessel may be served by the
Council either by delivering it to the owner or by sending it to the owner by
registered post or the recorded delivery service addressed to the owner at
their last known place of business or abode in the United Kingdom or, if the
owner or any such place of business or abode is not known to the Council, or
is not in the United Kingdom, by displaying the notice at the relevant harbour
office of the Council and electronically on the Council’s harbours website for
the period of its duration.

60.6

In this article “ owner ”, in relation to any vessel, means the person who was
the owner of the vessel at the time of the sinking, stranding or abandonment.

60.7

The powers conferred on the Council by this article shall be in addition to
and not in derogation of any other powers exercisable by it for or with
respect to the removal of wrecks within the harbours and their approaches.

#### Power to deal with unserviceable vessels

61

61.1

In addition to the powers conferred on the harbour master by section 57 of the
Act of 1847 (unserviceable vessels to be altogether removed from the harbour)
and on the Council by section 252 of the Act of 1995 (powers of harbour and
conservancy authorities in relation to wrecks) the Council may sell, break up
or otherwise dispose of any vessel which is unserviceable and has been laid by
or neglected in the harbours or on land immediately adjoining the harbours.

61.2

The Council may retain out of the proceeds of sale of such vessel, any
expenses reasonably incurred by it in respect of the vessel, or in marking,
buoying, lighting or otherwise controlling the vessel, or warning other
persons or vessels of its presence and any expenses reasonably incurred by the
harbour master under section 57 of the Act of 1847 (unserviceable vessels to
be altogether removed from the harbour) and must pay the surplus, if any, to
the person entitled to that surplus.

61.3

If the proceeds of the sale are insufficient to reimburse the Council for the
said expenses, or there is no sale, the Council may recover the deficiency, or
where there is no sale, the whole of the expenses, from the owner as a simple
contract debt.

61.4

Except in the case of emergency, the Council must, before exercising its
powers under this article, give 14 days’ notice in writing of its intention to
do so to the registered owner of the vessel and by advertisement in each of
two successive weeks in a local newspaper circulating in the area of the
relevant harbour, provided that, if the registered owner or their place of
business or address is not known to the Council or is outside of the United
Kingdom, the notice may be given by displaying it at the relevant harbour
office of the Council and electronically on the Council’s harbours website for
two successive weeks.

#### Removal of obstructions other than vessels

62

62.1

The Council may remove anything, other than a vessel, causing or likely to
become an obstruction to, or cause interference with, navigation in any part
of the harbours or any approach to the harbours.

62.2

The Council may take such steps as appear to it to be appropriate to prevent
or minimise such obstruction or interference for the purposes of paragraph
(1).

62.3

If anything removed by the Council under paragraph (1) is so marked as to be
readily identifiable as the property of any person, the Council must, within
28 days of its coming into the Council’s custody, give written notice to that
person stating that—

62.3.a

upon proof of ownership to the reasonable satisfaction of the Council; and

62.3.b

upon payment of any reasonable expenses incurred by the Council under this
article,

possession may be re-taken at a place named in the notice within the period
specified in the notice (being not less than 14 days after the notice is
served).

62.4

If for the purposes of this article possession of anything removed is not so
re-taken it shall at the end of that period vest in the Council.

62.5

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (3) the Council may, at such time
and in such manner as it thinks fit, dispose of anything removed under
paragraph (1)—

62.5.a

which is not so marked as to be readily identifiable as the property of any
person; or

62.5.b

which is of a perishable nature or the custody of which involves unreasonable
expense or inconvenience.

62.6

If anything disposed of by the Council under this article is sold, the Council
must place a notice at the relevant harbour office and on the Council’s
harbours website for a period of 28 days giving details of the property sold
and may retain out of the proceeds of sale any expenses incurred by it under
this article, and any surplus from the proceeds—

62.6.a

must be paid to any person who within 24 months from the time when the
property came into the custody of the Council proves to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Council that they were the owner at that time; or

62.6.b

if within the said period no person proves their ownership at the said time,
shall vest in the Council.

62.7

If the proceeds of sale of anything removed under this article are
insufficient to reimburse the Council for the expenses set out in paragraph
(6), or there is no sale because the property is unsaleable, the Council may—

62.7.a

recover the deficiency; or

62.7.b

where there is no sale, the whole of the expenses,

from the person who was the owner at the time when the thing removed came into
the custody of the Council or who was the owner at the time of its abandonment
or loss.

#### Boarding of vessels or vehicles

63

A duly authorised officer of the Council may, on producing their authority if
so required, enter and inspect a vessel or vehicle in the harbours for the
purposes of any enactment relating to the harbours (including any enactment so
relating contained in subordinate legislation) or of any byelaw or general
direction of the Council relating to the harbours, including the enforcement
of any such enactment, byelaw or general direction.

#### Notices

64

64.1

Except where this Order expressly provides otherwise a notice or other
document required or authorised to be served for the purposes of this Order,
or any direction given under this Order, must be in writing and must be served
by first class post.

64.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

64.3

Where a person on whom a notice or other document is to be served has agreed
in writing that service may be by email, or other electronic means, the
Council may provide notices by that means until such time as the person
informs them in writing that they are no longer willing to receive notices or
documents by email or by such other electronic means.

64.4

For the purposes of section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978  (references to
service by post) as it applies for the purposes of this article, the proper
address of a person in relation to the service on them of a notice or document
under paragraph (1) is, if they have given an address for service that
address, and otherwise—

64.4.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body;

64.4.b

in any other case, their last known address at the time of service.

64.5

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person whose name and address cannot be
ascertained after reasonable inquiry—

64.5.a

in the case of a notice or document to be served on a person as having an
interest in or as the occupier of, any land, it may be served by—

64.5.a.i

addressing it to them by name or by the description of “owner”, or as the case
may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it), and

64.5.a.ii

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land,

64.5.b

in the case of a notice or document relating to a vessel (including a wreck),
it may be served by exhibiting it in a conspicuous position on or near the
vessel (unless it would not be reasonably practicable to exhibit the notice or
document in this manner or if the notice or document would not be likely to be
seen if it were so exhibited) or by handing it to a member of the crew; and

64.5.c

in the case of any other notice or document or a notice or document that is
not capable of being served in accordance with sub-paragraph (b) it may be
served by displaying it at the relevant harbour office for the period of its
duration.

#### Saving for Trinity House

65

Nothing in this Order shall prejudice or derogate from any of the rights,
duties or privileges of Trinity House.

#### Crown Rights

66

66.1

Nothing in this Order shall—

66.1.a

prejudicially affect any estate, right, power, privilege, authority or
exemption of the Crown;

66.1.b

authorise the Council or any licensee to take, use, enter upon or in any
manner interfere with any land or interests in land or any rights of
whatsoever description (including any part of the shore or bed of the sea or
of any river, channel, creek, bay or estuary) belonging to—

66.1.b.i

His Majesty in right of the Crown and under the management of the Crown Estate
Commissioners without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate
Commissioners,

66.1.b.ii

the Duchy of Cornwall or enjoyed by the possessor for the time being of the
Duchy of Cornwall, without the prior consent of the Duke of Cornwall testified
in writing under the seal of the said Duchy or, the consent in writing of two
or more of such of the regular officers of the said Duchy or other such
persons as may be authorised under section 39 of the Duchy of Cornwall
Management Act 1863  (proviso for exercise of powers when the Duchy of
Cornwall is vested in the Crown),

66.1.b.iii

a government department or held in trust for His Majesty for the purposes of a
government department, without the consent in writing of that government
department.

66.2

A consent under paragraph (1)(b) may be given unconditionally or subject to
such conditions and upon such terms as may be considered necessary or
appropriate.

#### Amendment of Act and Orders

67

67.1

The St Ives (Pilotage) Harbour Revision Order 1988  is amended as follows.

67.2

In article 2 (definitions) in the definition of “harbour” omit “as described
in section 33 of the St Ives Harbour Act 1853” and substitute  “the limits of
which are described in Schedule 1 to the Cornwall Harbours Harbour Revision
Order 2023” .

67.3

The Penzance and Newlyn (Pilotage) Harbour Revision Order 1988  is amended as
follows.

67.4

In article 2 (interpretation) in the definition of “the Harbours” omit “as
described in section 15 of the Penzance Corporation Act 1883” and substitute
“the limits of which are described in Schedule 1 to the Cornwall Harbours
Harbour Revision Order 2023” .

67.5

The Stratton and Bude Improvement Act 1901  is amended as follows.

67.6

In section 16 (maintenance of undertaking of company after transfer) omit
“harbour docks”.

67.7

In section 110 (as to deficiency in receipts) omit “or harbour undertakings”
and substitute  “undertaking” .

67.8

In section 111 (separate accounts to be kept as to water and harbour) omit
“and harbour undertakings” and substitute  “undertaking” .

67.9

In section 114 (general provisions as to byelaws)—

67.9.a

omit “the Board of Trade shall be the confirming authority for byelaws made
under the section of this Act the marginal note whereof is “Byelaws as to
harbour” and”;

67.9.b

omit “harbour or the”.

#### Revocation / Repeal

68

On the date this Order comes into force the enactments mentioned in the first
and second columns of Schedule 4 (revocation / repeal) shall be revoked or
repealed (as appropriate) to the extent specified in the third column of that
Schedule.

      Signed by authority of the Marine Management Organisation       Tom
McCormack   Chief Executive Officer   An authorised employee of the Marine
Management Organisation     19th June 2023

## SCHEDULES

LIMITS OF THE HARBOURS

Article 4

##### Bude Harbour

1

The harbour or haven of Bude and so much of the sea as lies within a radius of
four hundred yards (365.76m) from a point (50°49′55.27277N, 004°33′31.93280″W)
at the mouth of the River Strat and the harbour premises, as shown outlined
red on the Bude Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Newquay Harbour

2

The area within an imaginary line commencing at a point (50°24′54.00099″N,
005°05′06.18194″W) then in a straight line in a northerly direction to a point
(50°25′09.46945″N, 005°05′07.18818″W) then in a straight line in a westerly
direction to a point (50°25′09.28185″N, 005°05′13.10645″W), then following the
level of high water to the point of commencement (50°24′54.00099″N,
005°05′06.18194″W) and the harbour premises, as shown outlined red on the
Newquay Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Port of Penryn

3

All that part of the Penryn River below the level of high water lying to the
west of an imaginary line drawn from Boyers Cellars at point (1)
(50°09′51.78960″N, 005°04′54.49080″W) and then in a straight line in a
northerly direction to point (2) (50°09′53.39782″N, 005°04′54.97723″W) and
then in a straight line in an easterly direction to point (3)
(50°09′53.43783″N, 005°04′54.71091″W) and then in a straight line in a north
westerly direction to point (4) (50°09′53.60564″N, 005°04′55.07463″W) and then
in a straight line in a north easterly direction to point (5)
(50°09′59.84386″N, 005°04′50.55608″W) and then in a straight line in a
northerly direction to point (6) (50°10′07.37969″N, 005°04′50.92783″W) and
then following the level of high water in a north westerly direction to point
(7) (50°10′07.45244″N, 005°04′50.99206″W), and then following the level of
high water in a northerly direction to Sely’s Creek at point (8)
(50°10′07.53160″N, 005°04′51.02904″W) commonly called Sailor’s Creek, in the
parish of Mylor and county of Cornwall, and the harbour premises, as shown
outlined red on the Penryn Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Penzance Harbour

4

The area within an imaginary line commencing at a point (50°06′51.21924″N,
005°31′52.05282″W) then in a straight line in a south south easterly direction
to a point (50°06′46.11600″N, 005°31′50.50791″W) then in a straight line in a
north easterly direction to a point (50°06′59.86133″N, 005°31′23.93733″W),
then in a straight line in a north westerly direction to a point
(50°07′25.14706″N, 005°31′48.63447″W), then following the level of high water
to the point of commencement (50°06′51.21924″N, 005°31′52.05282″W) and the
harbour premises, as shown outlined red on the Penzance Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Portreath Harbour

5

The area within an imaginary line commencing at a point (50°15′50.51837″N,
005°17′31.53797″W) then in a straight line in a south westerly direction to a
point at the northern end of the pier (50°15′49.09131″N, 005°17′34.40843″W)
then following the seaward side of the pier along the level of high water and
then in a southerly direction to a point (50°15′40.92978″N,
005°17′30.75737″W), then following the level of high water around the two
tidal basins and turning basin (along the north eastern side) back to the
point of commencement (50°15′50.51837″N, 005°17′31.53797″W) and the harbour
premises, as shown outlined red on the Portreath Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Portscatho Harbour

6

The area within an imaginary line commencing at a point (50°10′43.64932″N,
004° 58′16.91173″W) then in a straight line in a north easterly direction to a
point at (50°11′08.41656″N, 004°58′06.31798″W) then following the level of
high water along the coast back to the point of commencement
(50°10′43.64932″N, 004°58′16.91173″W) and the harbour premises, as shown
outlined red on the Portscatho Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Portwrinkle Harbour

7

The area within an imaginary line commencing at a point (50°21′40.44036″N,
004°18′53.92665″W) then following the level of high water around the northern
edge of the harbour to the northern edge of the quay and then in a straight
line in an easterly direction to a point at the north eastern end of the quay
(50°21′40.23610″N, 004°18′50.65529″W) then following the seaward side of the
quay along the level of high water to a point (50°21′39.95922″N,
004°18′54.16899″W), then in a straight line in a north east easterly direction
back to the point of commencement (50°21′40.44036″N, 004°18′53.92665″W) and
the harbour premises, as shown outlined red on the Portwrinkle Harbour Limits
Plan.

##### Prince of Wales Pier

8

The area of sea within a distance of fifty yards (45.72m) from any part of the
Prince of Wales Pier and the harbour premises, as shown outlined red on the
Prince of Wales Pier Harbour Limits Plan, provided that nothing contained in
this Order shall prejudice alter or affect the rights and privileges
exercisable by the Falmouth Harbour Commissioners under or by virtue of the
Falmouth Harbour Order 1870 .

##### St Ives Harbour

9

The area within an imaginary line commencing at the seaward end Porthminster
Point (50°12′27.34311″N, 005°28′16.17804″W) then in a straight line in a
northerly direction to a point (50°13′06.69218″N, 005°28′19.03575″W) then in a
straight line in a westerly direction to a point (50°13′06.31737″N,
005°28′31.35901″W), then following the level of high water back to the point
of commencement at the seaward end Porthminster Point (50°12′27.34311″N,
005°28′16.17804″W) and the harbour premises, as shown outlined red on the St
Ives Harbour Limits Plan.

##### Port of Truro

10

All those parts of the Port of Truro and rivers, including all creeks (except
Restronguet Creek, landward of an imaginary straight line drawn between a
point (50°11′46.25520″N, 005°03′ 48.27240″W) and a point (50°11′37.94640″N,
005°03′35.78400″W)) below the level of high water, situated landward of an
imaginary straight line drawn between Tarra Point (50°10′27.22440″N,
005°02′41.51040″W) and Messack Point (50°10′54.96600″N, 005°01′28.11360″W) and
the harbour premises, as shown outlined red on the Port of Truro Harbour
Limits Plans.

PROVISIONS APPLYING TO THE BOARD

Article 12

##### Meetings of the Board

1

1.1

The first meeting of the Board on or after the date on which it is first
established under article 6 (establishment of a Board) must be convened by the
Council as soon as reasonably practicable on or after that date and the
Council must send notice of that meeting to each of the members of the Board.

1.2

The Board must meet a minimum of four times in each year.

##### Chair and vice-chair of Board

2

2.1

The chair to be appointed by the Board must be a member of the Council
appointed under article 7(1)(a).

2.2

The first person taking office as chair after the establishment of the Board
must be appointed as soon as practicable and, unless that person resigns as
chair or ceases to be a member of the Board, is to continue in office as chair
until the Council’s next annual general meeting.

2.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (7), every person subsequently appointed as chair
under sub-paragraph (1) is, unless that person resigns as chair or ceases to
be a member of the Board, to hold office for a period of one year.

2.4

There must be a vice-chair of the Board who is to be appointed by the Board
from among the appointed members of the Board.

2.5

The first person taking office as vice-chair after the establishment of the
Board must be appointed as soon as practicable thereafter and is, unless that
person resigns as vice-chair or ceases to be a member of the Board, to
continue in office as vice-chair until the Council’s next annual general
meeting.

2.6

Subject to sub-paragraph (7), every person subsequently appointed as vice-
chair under sub-paragraph (4) is, unless that person resigns as vice-chair or
ceases to be a member of the Board, to hold office for a period of one year.

2.7

If the appointed members of the Board are satisfied that the chair or vice-
chair should cease to hold office as such, they may terminate the chair or
vice-chair’s office as such and appoint another member of the Board to be
chair or vice-chair during the remainder of the term for which the former
chair or vice-chair was appointed.

2.8

On a casual vacancy occurring in the office of chair or vice-chair of the
Board, the vacancy must be filled by the Board at the next meeting of the
Board held after the vacancy occurs.

2.9

A member of the Board appointed under sub-paragraph (8) to fill a casual
vacancy in the office of chair or vice-chair is, unless they resign that
office or cease to be a member of the Board, to hold that office during the
remainder of the term for which the chair or vice-chair being replaced was
appointed.

2.10

In the absence of the chair the person for the time being holding office as
the vice-chair is to have and may exercise all the powers of the chair.

2.11

If at a meeting of the Board neither the chair nor the vice-chair is present
the members of the Board present must choose one of their number to be chair
of the meeting.

##### Vacation of office by a member of the Board

3

3.1

A member of the Board may resign that office at any time by giving notice in
writing to the chair or if that member of the Board is the chair, the vice-
chair.

3.2

Any vacancy created by a member of the Board resigning must be treated as a
casual vacancy.

##### Reappointment of chair

4

4.1

A chair of the Board who has served as the chair for three consecutive terms
immediately beforehand is not eligible for reappointment as the chair.

4.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ term ” does not include—

4.2.a

a term served by the member of the Board as the chair under paragraph 2(2);

4.2.b

the remainder of a term during which the chair was appointed to fill a casual
vacancy in the office of the chair under paragraph 3.

##### Proceedings of meeting of the Board

5

5.1

Every decision at a meeting of the Board must be decided by a majority vote of
the Board members present and voting.

5.2

If at any meeting of the Board there is an equality of votes on a decision,
the chair of the meeting has a second or casting vote.

5.3

The quorum required for a meeting of the Board is 5 and substitutes are not
allowed.

5.4

The Board must cause minutes to be made—

5.4.a

of the names of members of the Board present at a meeting of the Board; and

5.4.b

of all proceedings or resolutions at such meeting,

and such minutes, if signed by a person purporting to be chair of the meeting
to which the minutes relate or of a subsequent meeting at which the minutes
were approved as a correct record, is to be received in evidence without
further proof.

5.5

Until the contrary is proved, a meeting for which minutes have been so made or
signed is to be deemed to have been duly convened and held and, if it was a
meeting of a committee of the Board, that committee is to be deemed to have
had power to deal with the subject of the minutes.

5.6

A member of the Board who has any interest, direct or indirect—

5.6.a

in any contract or proposed contract to which the Board are or would be a
party, or is a director of a company or body with which the contract or
proposed contract is made or proposed to be made;

5.6.b

in any other matter with which the member of the Board is concerned,

must declare that interest.

5.7

A member of the Board, who is present at a meeting of the Board at which a
contract or other matter in which that matter in which the member has an
interest is to be considered, must—

5.7.a

as soon as is practicable after the commencement of that meeting, disclose
that interest;

5.7.b

not vote on any question with respect to that contract or matter; and

5.7.c

withdraw from the meeting—

5.7.c.i

at any time if so required by a resolution of the members of the Board
present; and

5.7.c.ii

while a decision on that contract or matter is being made.

5.8

This paragraph does not apply to any interest which—

5.8.a

a member of the Board has in respect of the payment to the Council of harbour
dues;

5.8.b

arises in respect of the provision of harbour services or facilities affecting
the trading community in general;

5.8.c

the members of the Board present at the meeting by resolution declare to be
too remote.

##### Validity of acts of the Board

6

6.1

The Board may act notwithstanding a vacancy among the membership of the Board.

6.2

No act of the Board is to be deemed to be invalid by reason of any—

6.2.a

vacancy in their number;

6.2.b

defect or irregularity in the appointment of any person as—

6.2.b.i

a member of the Board,

6.2.b.ii

chair or vice-chair of the Board.

##### Remuneration of members of the Board

7

The Council may pay to the chair, vice-chair and other Board members such
special attendance allowance and other expenses as the Council may from time
to time determine.

##### Role of the Board

8

The Board shall be responsible for those matters set out in the Cornwall
Harbours Board Memorandum of Understanding in force from time to time.

9

No substantial amendment to the responsibilities of the Board under the
Cornwall Harbours Board Memorandum of Understanding shall be made without
first consulting with the Secretary of State.

##### General

10

Subject to the provisions of this Schedule and the constitution of the
Council, the procedure of the meetings of the Board is to be regulated in such
manner as the Board may determine.

  PURPOSES FOR WHICH BYELAWS MAY BE MADE

Article 29

1

Regulating the use of pontoons, stagings, quays, jetties, piers, walkways,
bridges, approaches, slipways, landing places, berthing heads, boat lifts,
mooring posts, buildings, parking places, and other works and facilities
provided by the Council.

2

Regulating the shipping and unshipping, landing, warehousing, stowing,
depositing and removing of goods within the harbours.

3

Preventing damage or injury to any vessel, goods, vehicle, plant, machinery,
property, or persons within the harbours and to any aids to navigation used in
connection with the harbours.

4

Regulating, preventing or licencing the conduct of all persons in vessels or
otherwise in the harbours not being—

4.a

members of a police force;

4.b

officers or servants of the Crown;

4.c

members of a fire brigade;

whilst in the exercise of their duties as such.

5

Regulating the placing, laying down, maintenance, removal and use of moorings
within the harbours.

6

Preventing or removing obstructions (including vessels and vehicles) or
impediments within the harbours.

7

Regulating the launching and recovery of vessels in the harbours.

8

Regulating or prohibiting the mooring, careening, beaching or anchoring and
keeping of vessels in the harbours.

9

Regulating or prohibiting the use in the harbours or onboard any vessel in the
harbours of fires, lights, or any other equipment, tools or appliances which
the Council considers involves a risk of fire, explosion or chemical reaction
and for the prevention of smoking.

10

Regulating the removal of rubbish (including ballast, earth or clay or other
refuse) and sewerage for vessels in the harbours.

11

The prevention of the disposal of such rubbish and sewerage from vessels, in
the harbours.

12

Prohibiting the use of or regulating the use, movement, speed, placing,
loading, unloading, driving and parking of vehicles in the harbours and the
removal of vehicles from the harbours (including by the Council).

13

Requiring the use of effectual silencers or other similar apparatus and the
control of noise generally on vessels in the harbours.

14

Regulating vessels in the harbours and their entry into and departures from
the harbours and, without limiting the scope of this paragraph, for
prescribing rules for regulating the speed and manner of navigation or
movement and the lights and signals exhibited or made by, or for the benefit
of, vessels using, navigating or mooring within the harbours.

15

Regulating the embarkation of persons on to, or their disembarkation from,
vessels within the harbours.

16

Regulating the holding of regattas and other public events in the harbours.

17

Prescribing the lights and signals to be exhibited or made—

17.a

by vessels aground in the harbours;

17.b

by vessels or other devices used for marking obstructions within the harbours.

18

Assisting the navigation of vessels within the harbours, at the entrance to
any dock or at any wharf, pier or other work.

19

Preventing nuisances in the harbours.

20

Prohibiting or regulating the discharge by land or sea of any material,
substance or thing within the harbours or the approaches to them.

21

Regulating or prohibiting fishing for marine creatures of any type and by
whatever means from any pier, jetty, breakwater, wharf, or other installation
or structure of any kind within the harbours, from any vessel within the
harbours or from the foreshore where such fishing interferes with the
operation of the harbours or the safety of navigation in the harbours.

22

Regulating or prohibiting aquaplaning, water skiing or diving or other similar
activities in the harbours.

23

Regulating or prohibiting bathing, and for securing the protection of bathers,
within the harbours.

24

Regulating or prohibiting the use of vehicles on the foreshore within the
harbours.

25

Regulating the use of ferries within the harbours and the conduct of boatmen,
ferry men, and others plying for hire in the harbours and of persons resorting
to any works constructed or operated by the Council.

26

Regulating the exercise of powers vested in the harbour master.

27

Regulating vessels, vehicles and persons embarking or disembarking vessels,
frequenting or employed in the harbours.

28

The purposes specified in section 83 of the Act of 1847 (byelaws may be made
for all or any of the purposes herein named).

  REVOCATION / REPEAL

Article 68

  Table       Number Short Title Extent of Revocation/Repeal   Ch. lxxxii. 33
& 34 Vict. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation Act,  1870 (No. 1) . Whole of
the Penryn Harbour Order, 1870. Ch. cxciii. 63 & 64 Vict. Pier and Harbour
Orders Confirmation (No. 2) Act,  1900 . Whole of the Penryn Harbour
Improvement Order 1900.     Ch. cxx. 10 & 11       Geo 5.     Pier and Harbour
Orders Confirmation (No. 1) Act,  1920 . Whole of the Penryn Harbour Order
1920. Ch. xliii. 46 & 47 Vict. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation (No. 1)
Act, 1883. Whole of the Truro Harbour Order, 1883. Ch. xc. 3 Edw. 7. Pier and
Harbour Orders Confirmation (No. 6) Act,  1903 . Whole of the Truro Harbour
Order 1903 apart from article 10(1) of that Order. Ch. cxv. 9 Edw. 7. Pier and
Harbour Orders Confirmation (No. 2) Act, 1909. Whole of the Truro Harbour
Order 1909. Ch. cxxi. 10 & 11 Geo 5. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation (No.
2) Act,  1920 . Whole of the Truro Harbour Order 1920. Ch. lxviii. 18 & 19 Geo
5. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation Act,  1928 . Whole of the Truro
Harbour Order 1928. Cap. cxxix. 16 & 17 Victoriae. The Saint Ives Harbour Act
1853. Whole Act. Cap. 51. 25 & 26 Victoriae. The Saint Ives Harbour Order
1862. Whole Order. Ch. ix. 50 Vict. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation Act,
1886 . Whole of the Saint Ives Harbour Order 1886 apart from articles 21 and
22. Ch. cxix. 51 & 52 Vict. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation (No. 1) Act,
1888 . Whole of the Saint Ives Harbour Order 1888. S.I. 1980/115 . St. Ives
Harbour Revision Order 1980. Whole Order. S.I. 1993/2176 . The St. Ives
Harbour Revision Order 1993. Whole Order apart from articles 7 and 8, and
insofar as required for the interpretation of articles 7 and 8, articles 2 and
5. 1 & 2 Victoriae Cap. lxxxiv. An Act for maintaining the Pier and Harbour of
Newquay in the County of Cornwall 1838. Whole Act. 7 Victoriae Cap. xxiii. An
Act to amend an Act for maintaining the Pier and Harbour of Newquay in the
County of Cornwall, and to make certain Tram Roads in connection therewith
1844. Whole Act. 1967 Ch. xxvii. Newquay Urban District Council Act  1967 .
Whole Act. Ch. cxiv. 41 & 42 Vict. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation Act,
1878 (No. 1) . Whole of the Falmouth Piers Order 1878. Ch. cci. 2 Edw. 7. Pier
and Harbour Orders Confirmation Act (No. 3) Act, 1902. Whole of the Falmouth
Corporation Quays Order 1902.     Ch. xii. 15 & 16       Geo. 6 & 1 Eliz 2.
Pier and Harbour Order (Falmouth) Confirmation Act,  1952 . Whole of the
Falmouth Piers Order 1952 apart from articles 8 and 9. c. lxxiv. 46 & 47 Vict.
The Penzance Corporation Act 1883. Whole Act. c. viii. Eliz 2. 1990. Penzance
Albert Pier Extension Act  1990 . Whole Act apart from sections 3, 5 and 6,
and insofar as required for the interpretation of sections 3, 5 and 6, section
2. c. xxvi. Eliz 2. 1990. Penzance South Pier Extension Act  1990 . Whole Act
apart from sections 3, 5 and 6, and insofar as required for the interpretation
of sections 3, 5 and 6, section 2. S.I. 2009/2325 . The Penzance Harbour
Revision Order 2009. Whole Order apart from articles 2, 5, 6, 25 and 26. Geo.
III Cap. 53. An Act for making a navigable Cut or Canal, from the Port or
Harbour of Bude, in the Hundred of Stratton, in the County of Cornwall, to the
River Tamer, in the Parish of Calstocke, the said County 1768. Whole Act. 59
Geo. III c. lv. An Act for improving the Harbour of Bude, in the County of
Cornwall; and for making and maintaining a Navigable Canal from the said
Harbour of Bude to or near the Village of Thornbury, in the County of Devon,
and divers Branches therefrom, all in the said Counties of Cornwall and Devon,
1819. Sections XXXII, LXI to LXIV (inclusive), LXVI, LXXIII, LXXV to LXXXII
(inclusive), LXXXIV, LXXXV, XCII to XCIV (inclusive), XCVI, CVI to CVIII
(inclusive), CXI, CXVII and CXVIII. 1 Edw. 7 Ch. cclviii. Stratton and Bude
Improvement Act  1901 .     Sections 62 to 64       (inclusive), 66, 67, 69,
70 to 74 (inclusive), 79 to 81 (inclusive), 108, 109, Third Schedule.     3
Edw. 7 Ch. cxxviii. Pier and Harbour Orders Confirmation (No. 2) Act,  1903 .
Whole of the Bude Harbour Order 1903.

ACTS AND ORDERS

Article 2

1

Saint Ives Harbour Order 1886 (articles 21 and 22).

2

Truro Harbour Order 1903 (article 10(1)).

3

Falmouth Piers Order 1952 (articles 8 and 9).

4

The St. Ives Harbour Revision Order 1993 (articles 2, 5, 7 and 8).

5

Penzance Albert Pier Extension Act 1990 (sections 2, 3, 5 and 6).

6

Penzance South Pier Extension Act 1990 (sections 2, 3, 5 and 6).

7

The Penzance Harbour Revision Order 2009 (articles 2, 5, 6, 25 and 26).

8

Portreath, Portscatho and Portwrinkle Harbour Empowerment Order 2023.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order, made on the application of Cornwall Council relates to the ports
and harbours of Bude, Newquay, Penryn, Penzance, Prince of Wales Pier (in
Falmouth), St Ives and Truro. It modernises and consolidates the statutory
harbour powers applying in relation to all seven harbours, so that they will
all be governed by Cornwall Council under the Order. The Order provides for:
1     The jurisdiction (article 4 and Schedule 1) and general functions
(article 5) of the Council as the statutory harbour authority for the harbours
including plans of the harbours (including the harbour premises) which can be
inspected during working hours at the office of the Marine Management
Organisation, Lancaster House, Hampshire Court, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 7YH
and the principal office of the Cornwall Council, New County Hall, Treyew
Road, Truro TR1 3AY. The plans are also available electronically on the
Council’s harbours website at  www.cornwallharbours.co.uk .         2
Establishing the constitution and governance arrangements of the Cornwall
Harbours Board (articles 6 to 12 and Schedule 2).         3     The
establishment of one or more advisory bodies consisting of harbour
stakeholders with which the Council are required to consult on material
matters (article 13).         4     Powers to vest in the Council relating to
application of finances (article 14), establishment of the Port of Truro
Reserve Fund, Port of Penryn Reserve Fund and a General Reserve Fund (articles
15 to 17), as well as borrowing powers (article 18).         5     Powers
relating to works including a power to dredge, moorings, aids to navigation,
repair of landing places, works and dredging licensing and penalties for
obstruction of works (articles 19 to 26 and 50 to 53).         6
Modernised powers of management and control of the harbours to vest in the
Council including provisions relating to parking places (article 27), removal
of vehicles and vessels (article 28), and byelaws (articles 29 to 30 and
Schedule 3).         7     Powers of general direction for the Council and
special direction for the harbour master (defined in article 2) for the
regulation and management of the harbour (articles 31 to 36). A register of
all in force general directions may be inspected during office hours at the
relevant harbour office of the Council (article 31). This Order creates an
offence of failing to comply with special or general directions, the penalty
for which is a fine on summary conviction not exceeding level 4 on the
standard scale (article 35). A defence of due diligence is available to a
person charged under article 35 (article 35(2)).         8     A modern suite
of charging powers (articles 39 to 49) including exemptions from harbour dues
(article 47) and prevention of sailing of vessels (article 49).         9
Powers relating to development of land (article 54), power to grant tenancies
and dispose of land (article 55), power to appropriate lands and works for
particular uses, etc. (article 56), other commercial activities (article 57),
and power to delegate functions (article 58).         10     Powers relating
to bunkering (article 59), disposal of wrecks (article 60), unserviceable
vessels (article 61), removal of obstructions other than vessels (article 62),
boarding of vessels or vehicles (article 63) and notices (article 64).
11     Saving for Trinity House (article 65) and Crown Rights (article 66).
12     To facilitate the above, the Order repeals and revokes the Acts and
Orders set out in Schedule 4 and amends the St Ives (Pilotage) Harbour
Revision Order 1988 ( S.I. 1988/1500 ), the Penzance and Newlyn (Pilotage)
Harbour Revision Order 1988 ( S.I. 1988/1495 ) and the Stratton and Bude
Improvement Act 1901 (1 Edw. 7. Ch. cclvii) (articles 67 and 68).         13
Article  2 (1) and Schedule 5 make clear that the “ undertaking ” means the
undertaking for the time being of the Council relating to any or all of the
harbours as authorised by this Order and the Acts and Orders listed in
Schedule 5 (to the extent that those Acts and Orders relate to the harbours or
any one of them).         14     An impact assessment has not been prepared
for this Order as there is no, or no significant, impact predicted on
businesses, charities, voluntary bodies or the public sector.

  An Explanatory Memorandum together with a copy of the harbour limits plans
is available alongside the instrument on the UK legislation website at
www.legislation.gov.uk .

