Title: The Social Fund Maternity and Funeral Expenses (General) and Social Security (Claims and Payments) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-06-23
Description: Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987 (S.R. 1987 No. 465) to allow certain persons more time for claiming a Sure Start Maternity Grant (“SSMG”). The persons concerned are those who have been given leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom having left—Afghanistan in connection with the fall of the Afghan Government; andUkraine following the Russian invasion of that country,
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/86

## The Social Fund Maternity and Funeral Expenses (General) and Social Security (Claims and Payments) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   26th May 2023

  Coming into operation   8th June 2023

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 134(1)(a) and 171(3) and (5) of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992
and sections 5(1)(a) and 165(4) of the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992  and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Fund Maternity and Funeral
Expenses (General) and Social Security (Claims and Payments) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 8 th
June 2023.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations

2

2.1

The Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987
are amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

2.2

In regulation 19 (time for claiming benefit), after paragraph (7), insert—

2.2.7A

Where—

2.2.7A.a

a claim for a social fund payment in respect of maternity expenses (a
“relevant social fund payment”) is made by a person to whom paragraph (7B) or
(7C) applies; and

2.2.7A.b

both of the conditions in paragraph (7D) are met,

sub-paragraphs (a) to (f) of the entry in column (2) of Schedule 4 relating to
the relevant social fund payment each have effect as if at the end there were
added  “or, if later, 8th December 2023” .

2.2.7B

This paragraph applies to a person who—

2.2.7B.a

is granted leave in accordance with the immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971  (“ the 1971 Act ”) where such leave is
granted by virtue of—

2.2.7B.a.i

Appendix Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy of those rules ; or

2.2.7B.a.ii

the previous scheme for locally-employed staff in Afghanistan (sometimes
referred to as the ex-gratia scheme) ; or

2.2.7B.b

does not come within sub-paragraph (a) and who left Afghanistan in connection
with the collapse of the Afghan government that took place on 15th August
2021.

2.2.7C

This paragraph applies to a person who was residing in Ukraine immediately
before 1st January 2022, who left Ukraine in connection with the Russian
invasion which took place on 24th February 2022 and who—

2.2.7C.a

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of the 1971 Act ;

2.2.7C.b

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the 1971 Act;

2.2.7C.c

has been granted, or is deemed to have been granted, leave outside those
rules; or

2.2.7C.d

does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with section 3ZA of the 1971 Act .

2.2.7D

The conditions for the purposes of paragraph (7A)(b) are that—

2.2.7D.a

at the date of the claim for a relevant social fund payment, there is an
existing member of the family (within the meaning given in regulation 5A of
the Social Fund Maternity and Funeral Expenses (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2005); and

2.2.7D.b

that existing member of the family is under the age of 16 on that date.

### Amendment of the Social Fund Maternity and Funeral Expenses (General) Regulations

3

3.1

The Social Fund Maternity and Funeral Expenses (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2005  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

3.2

In regulation 5 (entitlement to Sure Start Maternity Grant)—

3.2.a

omit paragraph (4);

3.2.b

in paragraph (5), for “fourth” substitute  “third” ;

3.2.c

in paragraph (6), for “fifth” substitute  “fourth” .

3.3

At the end of regulation 5A (entitlement to Sure Start Maternity Grant where
another member of the claimant’s family is under the age of 16)  insert—

3.3.8

A Sure Start Maternity Grant shall be awarded if—

3.3.8.a

at the date of claim, any existing member of the family is under the age of
16;

3.3.8.b

the claimant is a person to whom paragraph (9) or (10) applies;

3.3.8.c

no Sure Start Maternity Grant has been awarded to the claimant—

3.3.8.c.i

where the claimant is a person to whom paragraph (9) applies, on or after 15th
August 2021;

3.3.8.c.ii

where the claimant is a person to whom paragraph (10) applies, on or after
24th February 2022; and

3.3.8.d

the other conditions for entitlement to the grant are satisfied.

3.3.9

This paragraph applies where the claimant is—

3.3.9.a

a person granted leave in accordance with the immigration rules made under
section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 (“ the 1971 Act ”) by virtue of—

3.3.9.a.i

Appendix Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy of those rules; or

3.3.9.a.ii

the previous scheme for locally-employed staff in Afghanistan (sometimes
referred to as the ex-gratia scheme); or

3.3.9.b

a person in Northern Ireland not coming within sub-paragraph (a) who left
Afghanistan in connection with the collapse of the Afghan government that took
place on 15th August 2021.

3.3.10

This paragraph applies where the claimant is a person who was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022, who left Ukraine in connection
with the Russian invasion which took place on 24th February 2022 and who —

3.3.10.a

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of the 1971 Act;

3.3.10.b

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the 1971 Act;

3.3.10.c

has been granted, or is deemed to have been granted, leave outside those
rules; or

3.3.10.d

does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with section 3ZA of the 1971 Act.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 26th
May 2023.       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends the Social Security (Claims and
Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987 ( S.R. 1987 No. 465 ) to allow
certain persons more time for claiming a Sure Start Maternity Grant (“ SSMG
”). The persons concerned are those who have been given leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom having left—         Afghanistan in connection
with the fall of the Afghan Government; and           Ukraine following the
Russian invasion of that country,

  who have an existing member of their family aged under 16 at the date of
claim. Regulation 3(3) makes a related amendment to the Social Fund Maternity
and Funeral Expenses (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 ( S.R. 2005
No. 506 ) (“ the 2005 Regulations ”) to enable such persons to claim an SSMG
where there is an existing family member who is under the age of 16.

  Regulation 3(2) amends the 2005 Regulations to remove the requirement that a
person must have obtained the advice of a healthcare professional before
claiming an SSMG.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the
requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

