Title: The Human Tissue (Permitted Material) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-06-23
Description: These Regulations are made under the Human Tissue Act 2004 (c.30) (“the 2004 Act”). Section 3 of the 2004 Act makes provision for the interpretation of “appropriate consent”. This term is used in section 1 in relation to an activity involving the body, or material from the body, of a person who is an adult or has died an adult.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/26

## The Human Tissue (Permitted Material) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Human Tissue

  Made   1st March 2023

  Coming into operation in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Department of Health makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 3(9A) and 52(4B) and (4C) of the Human Tissue
Act 2004 .           In accordance with section 52(11)  of that Act, the
Department of Health has consulted such persons as it considers appropriate.

### Citation, commencement and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Human Tissue (Permitted Material)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 1st June 2023.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to activities done in Northern Ireland for
the purpose of transplantation .

### Permitted material

2

2.1

All relevant material (within the meaning given by section 53 of the Human
Tissue Act 2004) is specified as permitted material for the purposes of
section 3(6AA) of that Act; but this is subject to paragraphs (2) and (5).

2.2

Except as provided by paragraphs (3) and (4), the whole or any part of the
following is not permitted material—

2.2.a

arm;

2.2.b

brain;

2.2.c

face;

2.2.d

finger;

2.2.e

foot;

2.2.f

forearm;

2.2.g

hand;

2.2.h

leg;

2.2.i

lower leg;

2.2.j

mouth;

2.2.k

nose;

2.2.l

spinal cord;

2.2.m

thigh;

2.2.n

toe;

2.2.o

trachea;

2.2.p

upper arm;

2.2.q

cervix;

2.2.r

clitoris;

2.2.s

embryo (inside the body) ;

2.2.t

fallopian tube;

2.2.u

foetus;

2.2.v

labia;

2.2.w

ovary;

2.2.x

penis;

2.2.y

perineum;

2.2.z

placenta;

2.2.aa

prostate;

2.2.bb

testicle;

2.2.cc

umbilical cord;

2.2.dd

uterus;

2.2.ee

vagina;

2.2.ff

vulva.

2.3

The following tissue does not fall within paragraph (2) in so far as it is
disaggregated from any of the relevant material specified in sub-paragraphs
(a) to (p) of that paragraph (and, accordingly, such tissue is permitted
material)—

2.3.a

artery;

2.3.b

bone;

2.3.c

muscle;

2.3.d

nervous tissue;

2.3.e

skin;

2.3.f

tendon.

2.4

The whole or part of the trachea does not fall within paragraph (2) in so far
as it is attached to a lung (and, accordingly, such tissue is permitted
material).

2.5

The following types of cells are not permitted material in so far as all or
part of the cells is for use in, or as, an advanced therapy medicinal product—

2.5.a

limbal stem cells;

2.5.b

liver cells;

2.5.c

lung epithelial cells;

2.5.d

pancreatic cells;

2.5.e

renal epithelial cells.

2.6

In this regulation, “ advanced therapy medicinal product ” has the same
meaning as in the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 1st March
2023       (L.S.)   Ryan Wilson   A senior officer of the Department of Health

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under the Human Tissue Act  2004 (c.30)  (“ the
2004 Act ”). Section 3 of the 2004 Act makes provision for the interpretation
of “appropriate consent”. This term is used in section 1 in relation to an
activity involving the body, or material from the body, of a person who is an
adult or has died an adult.

  Section 3(6) provides that, in relation to certain activities done in
Northern Ireland, in certain circumstances, appropriate consent means deemed
consent. Certain of those activities involve the removal, storage or use, for
the purpose of transplantation, of “permitted material”. Section 3(9A) defines
“permitted material” as relevant material of a type specified in regulations
made by the Department of Health in Northern Ireland, but the regulations may
not make provision dealing with a matter falling within a description
specified in Schedule 3 to the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (reserved matters).

  Regulation 2(2) specifies the whole or any part of certain relevant
material, for example the arm, brain and face that are not permitted material.

  Regulation 2(3) provides that the listed tissue does not fall within
paragraph (2) in so far as it is disaggregated from any of the material
specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (p) of that paragraph and is therefore such
tissue is permitted material.

  Regulation 2(4) provides that the whole or part of the trachea, does not
fall within paragraph (2), as it is attached to the lung and therefore such
tissue is considered permitted material.

  Regulation 2(5) specifies certain types of cells are not permitted material
in so far as all or part of the cells is for use in, or as, an advanced
therapy medicinal product for example limbal stem cells.

  Regulation 2(6) provides that in regulation 2(5), “ advanced therapy
medicinal product ” has the same meaning as it does in the Human Medicines
Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1916 ).

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no
impact on the private or voluntary sectors is foreseen.

