Title: The Higher-Risk Buildings (Key Building Information etc.) (England) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-02-02
Description: These Regulations set out what constitutes ‘key building information’ in respect of higher-risk buildings; the duties and provisions in relation to submitting key building information; and sets out how to determine for which parts of a higher-risk building an accountable person (“AP”) is responsible under Part 4 of the Building Safety Act 2022 (“the 2022 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/396

## The Higher-Risk Buildings (Key Building Information etc.) (England) Regulations 2023

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   26th March 2023

  Coming into force   6th April 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 74, 89(1) and (2) and 168(2) and (4) of the
Building Safety Act 2022 .       In accordance with section 7(4) of the
Building Safety Act 2022, the Secretary of State has consulted the building
safety regulator and such other persons as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.           A draft of this instrument has been laid before
Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Citation, commencement, extent, application and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Higher-Risk Buildings (Key Building
Information etc.) (England) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 6th April
2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply to England only.

1.3

In these Regulations—

“ the 2022 Act ” means the Building Safety Act 2022; “ ancillary building ” in
relation to a higher-risk building means any structure or section that is
attached to but does not form part of that higher-risk building; “ AP ” means
accountable person ; “ external wall ” has the meaning in regulation 2(6) of
the Building Regulations 2010 ; “ ground level ” means— where the level of the
surface of the ground on which the building is situated is uniform, the level
of the surface of the ground immediately adjacent to the building, or where
the level of the surface of the ground on which the building is situated is
not uniform, the level of the lowest part of the surface of the ground
adjacent to the building; “ PAP ” means principal accountable person ; “
storey ” includes any gallery floor that is a floor open to the storey below
and whose internal floor area is at least 50% of the internal floor area of
the largest storey vertically above or below it (excluding any floor below
ground level); “ storey below ground level ” means a storey where any part of
the finished surface of the ceiling of the storey is below the ground level
immediately adjacent to that part of the building.

### Key building information as prescribed information

2

The prescribed information (“key building information”) is information as set
out in regulations 3 to 18.

### Key building information: ancillary building

3

Whether the higher-risk building has any ancillary building and whether that
ancillary building is a higher-risk building .

### Key building information: use

4

4.1

The principal use of—

4.1.a

the higher-risk building,

4.1.b

any ancillary building,

4.1.c

any outbuilding,

4.1.d

any storey below ground level in the higher-risk building.

4.2

“ Outbuilding ” in relation to a higher-risk building means any permanent or
temporary building, whether or not attached to the higher-risk building but
not forming part of it, that is used for purposes incidental to the enjoyment
of the higher-risk building.

### 

5

5.1

The subordinate use of—

5.1.a

the higher-risk building, save in respect of a residential unit in that
higher-risk building,

5.1.b

any ancillary building,

5.1.c

any storey below ground level in the higher-risk building.

5.2

“ Subordinate use ” means any use other than the principal use.

### 

6

Whether since its construction there has been a change to the principal use of
the higher-risk building.

### 

7

7.1

“Use” must be described using the following categories—

7.1.a

residential (dwellings),

7.1.b

residential (institutional),

7.1.c

residential (other),

7.1.d

office,

7.1.e

shop and commercial,

7.1.f

assembly and recreation,

7.1.g

industrial, or

7.1.h

storage and other non-residential

7.2

For the purposes of interpreting the categories in paragraph (1) regard must
be had to Table 0.1 “Classification of purpose groups” of Approved Document B
(Fire safety) volume 1: Dwellings (2019 edition incorporating 2020 and 2022
amendments) that came into force on 1 December 2022.

### Key building information: materials

8

With regard to the external wall of the higher-risk building—

8.a

a description of the material used in its composition, and

8.b

if there is more than one material, what percentage of the whole does each
material constitute.

9

If there is insulation of the external wall—

9.a

a description of the material used in the composition of that insulation, and

9.b

if there is more than one material, what percentage of the whole does each
material constitute.

10

With regard to the roof of the higher-risk building—

10.a

the main material used in the composition of the part of the roof that
provides a waterproof covering,

10.b

whether there is a separate layer of insulation, and

10.c

whether the roof plane is pitched or flat or a combination of both.

### Key building information: fixture on external wall

11

With regard to any fixture attached to the external wall or roof of the
higher-risk building—

11.a

the type of fixture, and

11.b

the main material from which the fixture is composed.

### Key building information: structure

12

With regard to the structure of the higher-risk building—

12.a

the main material used, and

12.b

the type of structural design the building has in order to comply with Part A
(Structure) of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations 2010 .

### Key building information: storeys and staircases

13

The number of storeys below ground level that are in the higher-risk building.

14

In relation to staircases—

14.a

the number of staircases that the higher-risk building has, and

14.b

how many of those staircases serve, as part of the same flight of stairs, the
storey at ground level and every storey above it.

### Key building information: energy

15

The type of energy supply to the higher-risk building.

16

The type of energy storage system of the higher-risk building.

### Key building information: emergency planning

17

A description of the type of evacuation strategy that is in place for the
higher-risk building.

18

18.1

A list of the fire and smoke control equipment within the higher-risk
building, save for that provided by a resident for their own use.

18.2

Where in the building the equipment is located.

### Key building information duties

19

The PAP must provide to the regulator  key building information for each
higher-risk building for which they are the PAP.

20

The key building information for a higher-risk building must be submitted
within 28 days of the PAP submitting an application for registration of that
higher-risk building .

21

The PAP must notify the regulator of any change to the key building
information within 28 days of the PAP becoming aware of the change.

22

If there is more than one AP for a higher-risk building each AP must, for the
part of the building for which they are responsible , provide the PAP with—

22.a

notice and details of any change to the key building information within 28
days of the AP becoming aware of the change,

22.b

if requested by the PAP, key building information as soon as reasonably
practicable from the date of request from the PAP.

23

A submission of, or notification about, key building information to the
regulator may be made by a person authorised on behalf of the PAP for that
building.

### Provision of key building information to the regulator

24

The key building information to be provided to the regulator must be in
electronic form.

### Direction by regulator

25

25.1

The regulator may make a direction as to the way in which key building
information must be given.

25.2

The direction may include a requirement to give the information via a website
address provided for that purpose by the regulator.

25.3

The regulator must publish any direction under this regulation on its website
and make it available for inspection at its principal offices during normal
office hours.

25.4

The regulator may, by a further direction, amend or revoke a direction made
under this regulation.

### Part of the building for which an AP is responsible: buildings with only one AP

26

26.1

If a higher-risk building has only one AP and the AP is a commonhold
association, the AP is responsible for the following parts of the building—

26.1.a

the common parts of the building,

26.1.b

any commonhold unit,

26.1.c

any balcony, and

26.1.d

any other part of the building to which the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety
Order) 2005  does not apply.

26.2

If a higher-risk building has only one AP and the AP is not a commonhold
association, the AP is responsible for the following parts of the building—

26.2.a

the common parts of a building,

26.2.b

any residential unit,

26.2.c

any balcony, and

26.2.d

any other part of the building to which the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety
Order) 2005 does not apply.

26.3

The common parts of the building are defined by—

26.3.a

section 25(1) (definition) of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002  in
relation to paragraph (1), and

26.3.b

section 72(6) of the 2022 Act in relation to paragraph (2)

26.4

In this regulation “ commonhold association ” means as defined under Part 1 of
the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002.

### Buildings with more than one AP

27

If a higher-risk building has more than one AP, the parts of the building for
which an AP is responsible is determined by reference to regulations 28 to
31 .

28

An AP is responsible for the part of the common parts of the building for
which they hold a legal estate in possession or a repairing obligation.

29

An AP who holds a legal estate in possession in or a repairing obligation in
relation to any part of the exterior of the building, is responsible for any
balcony attached to that part of the exterior.

30

30.1

If an AP has the right to let or (excluding a residential unit let on a long
lease ) lets a residential unit in the building, the AP is responsible for
that unit.

30.2

If a residential unit is let under a long lease, the AP responsible for the
unit is—

30.2.a

the lessor in relation to the long lease, or

30.2.b

where, by virtue of section 72 of the 2022 Act, the lessor in relation to the
long lease is not an AP, the AP responsible for the part of the common parts
that adjoins or is nearest to the main entrance door of the unit.

30.3

For this regulation, the residential unit is treated as including any garden,
yard, garage, outhouse, or other appurtenance that is—

30.3.a

within the higher-risk building,

30.3.b

for the use, benefit and enjoyment of a resident of that unit, and

30.3.c

not a part subject to regulations 28 and 29.

31

An AP for a higher-risk building who is the PAP for that building is
responsible for any part of that higher-risk building—

31.a

which is not the responsibility of another AP by virtue of regulations 28 to
30, and

31.b

to which the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety Order) 2005 does not apply.

Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Lee Rowley Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities 26th March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations set out what constitutes ‘key building information’ in
respect of higher-risk buildings; the duties and provisions in relation to
submitting key building information; and sets out how to determine for which
parts of a higher-risk building an accountable person (“ AP ”) is responsible
under Part 4 of the Building Safety Act 2022 (“ the 2022 Act ”).

  Regulation 2 sets out what information is prescribed under section 89(1) of
the 2022 Act as ‘key building information’.

  Regulations 3 to 18 set out what information is ‘key building information’.
Amongst other things, it clarifies information that is required in relation to
structures that do not form part of the higher-risk building but are attached
or an outbuilding of it; information that is required in relation to the use
of the building; information in relation to materials used and fixtures in
certain parts; and information relating to structure and staircases.

  Regulations 21 to 23 set out the duties on a principal accountable person (“
PAP ”) and AP. These duties include providing or enabling key building
information to be submitted to the regulator and keeping information up to
date. These regulations also provide a time frame for carrying out the duties
by reference to an application for registration or upon the AP or PAP becoming
aware of any changes to the information.

  Regulations 24 and 27 make provision about the form and way key building
information is given to the regulator. Regulation 24 mandates that the
information should be submitted in electronic form. Regulation 25 includes
provision for the regulator to make a direction specifying in further detail
how the information is to be submitted.

  Regulation 26 sets out what parts of a higher-risk building an AP is
responsible for, for the purposes of section 74 of the 2022 Act, where there
the building has only one AP.

  Regulations 29 to 30 set out what parts of a higher-risk building an AP is
responsible, for the purposes of section 74 of the 2022 Act, where the
building has more than one AP. Regulation 28 provides that an AP who holds a
legal estate in possession in or a repairing obligation in relation to common
part as defined by section 72 of the 2022 Act is responsible for that part of
the common parts. Regulation 29 provides which AP is responsible for a balcony
on the exterior wall. Regulation 30 makes provision in relation to residential
units that are let, or the AP has a right to let, under a long lease as
defined by section 115 of the 2022 Act.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no
significant impact on the private, voluntary sector or public sector is
foreseen.

