Title: The Relief for Research and Development (Content of Claim Notifications, Additional Information Requirements and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-10-28
Description: Section 1142A of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 (“CTA09”) imposes a requirement for a company to make a claim notification for the purposes of provisions in Part 3 and Part 13 of CTA09. Regulation 2 specifies the information that must be provided by a company for the purposes of claim notifications made under section 1142A CTA09.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/813

## The Relief for Research and Development (Content of Claim Notifications, Additional Information Requirements and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023

    Corporation Tax

  Made   17th July 2023

  Laid before the House of Commons   18th July 2023

  Coming into force   8th August 2023

      The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs make the
following Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 83EA of
Schedule 18 to the Finance Act 1998 , section 132 of the Finance Act 1999 ,
sections 135 and 136 of the Finance Act 2002  and section 1142A(2) of the
Corporation Tax Act 2009  and now exercisable by them .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Relief for Research and Development
(Content of Claim Notifications, Additional Information Requirements and
Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 8th August
2023.

### Claim notifications

2

A claim notification under section 1142A of the Corporation Tax Act 2009
(requirement to make a claim notification) must include the information
specified in Schedule 1.

### Additional information to be provided in relation to R&D claims

3

3.1

This regulation applies in relation to a claim to which Part 9A of Schedule 18
to the Finance Act 1998 (procedure for claims for R&D relief) applies.

3.2

The claimant company must provide to an officer of Revenue and Customs the
information specified in Schedule 2 (subject to any limitation set out in that
Schedule).

3.3

That requirement applies only in relation to the initial making of the claim
(not any amendment).

3.4

In Schedule 2—

“ the Chapter 2 Regulations ” means the Research and Development (Chapter 2
Relief) Regulations 2024 ; “ CTA 2009 ” means the Corporation Tax Act 2009; “
employer’s PAYE reference ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the
Income Tax (Pay As You Earn) Regulations 2003; “ in-house expenditure ” means
expenditure that is attributable to research and development undertaken by the
company itself; “ qualifying indirect activities ” has the meaning given in
the Guidelines on the Meaning of Research and Development for Tax Purposes
issued by the Secretary of State for Business and Trade on 7 March 2023.

### Amendment of the Income and Corporation Taxes (Electronic Communications) Regulations 2003

4

4.1

The Income and Corporation Taxes (Electronic Communications) Regulations 2003
are amended as follows.

4.2

In regulation 2 (scope of these Regulations)—

4.2.a

after paragraph (1)(a)(vi), omit “or”,

4.2.b

after paragraph (1)(a)(vii), omit “and”, and

4.2.c

after paragraph (1)(a)(vii), insert—

4.2.c.viii

section 1142A of the Corporation Tax Act 2009, or

4.2.c.ix

paragraph 83EA(1) of Schedule 18 to the Finance Act 1998; and

.

4.3

In regulation 3 (use of electronic communication), in paragraph (2A)—

4.3.a

after “company tax return”, in the first place that expression occurs, insert
“, claim notification under section 1142A of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 or
additional information under paragraph 83EA of Schedule 18 to the Finance Act
1998” ,

4.3.b

in the second sentence omit “only”,

4.3.c

omit the final sentence, and

4.3.d

at the end insert—

This paragraph also applies to an amendment made on or after 8 August 2023 to
a company tax return for an accounting period beginning on or after 1 April
2023, where the company tax return includes an R&D claim within the meaning of
section 1142B of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 before or after the amendment.
It does not apply to any other amendment to a company tax return.

.

      Jim Harra   Justin Holliday   Two of the Commissioners for His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs     17th July 2023

  Claim notifications

Regulation 2

1

A claim notification under section 1142A of the Corporation Tax Act 2009
(requirement to make a claim notification) must include the information
specified in the Table in respect of—

1.a

the company ,

1.b

the company officer responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the information
provided under this Schedule,

1.c

any agent or tax adviser engaged by the company, or which has provided
services to the company, in any capacity in relation to the R&D claim, and

1.d

the R&D claim .

2

This is the Table referred to in paragraph 1—

Subject Specified information the company registered name  (or, if the company
is not a registered company, formal name) , and unique taxpayer reference
number. the company officer responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the
information provided under this Schedule name, role in the company, telephone
number, and email address. agent(s) or tax adviser(s) name (or, if the agent
or adviser is a registered company, its registered number if available), agent
reference number, business or trading name, address of principal place of
business, email address, telephone number, and agent role (acting on research
and development claim only, or acting on both research and development claim
and other tax matters). the R&D claim the start date and the end date of the
accounting period, the start date and the end date of the period of account,
the number of research and development project(s), and an overview of the
research and development project(s) for the period of account.

Additional information to be provided in relation to R&D claims

Regulation 3

##### Claimant’s details

1

1.1

The following information in relation to the company—

1.1.a

registered name (or, if the company is not a registered company, formal name);

1.1.b

unique taxpayer reference number;

1.1.c

if the company is registered for VAT, its VAT registration number within the
meaning of section 77E of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 ;

1.1.d

employer’s PAYE reference, if available;

1.1.e

main area of business;

1.1.f

whether the company has a registered office in Northern Ireland, and if so—

1.1.f.i

the postcode for the office;

1.1.f.ii

the registered number of the company.

1.2

If the claim is under Chapter 2 of Part 13 of CTA 2009 and the company has a
registered office in Northern Ireland—

1.2.a

whether the company has, at any point during the accounting period to which
the claim relates, carried on a trade that involves—

1.2.a.i

trading in goods, or

1.2.a.ii

the generation, transmission, distribution, supply, wholesale trading or
cross-border exchange of electricity; and

1.2.b

if not, whether the company wishes to rely on regulation 2(3) of the Chapter 2
Regulations.

##### Responsible officer

2

The following information in relation to the officer of the company who is
responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the information provided under this
Schedule—

2.a

name;

2.b

role in the company;

2.c

telephone number;

2.d

email address.

##### Agents and advisers

3

If an agent or tax adviser is or has been engaged by the company, or has
provided services to the company, in any capacity in relation to the claim,
the following information in relation to each such agent or adviser—

3.a

name (or, if the agent or adviser is a registered company, its registered
name);

3.b

agent reference number;

3.c

business or trading name;

3.d

address of principal place of business;

3.e

telephone number;

3.f

email address;

3.g

whether or not the role of the agent or adviser is limited to matters
concerning relief for research and development.

##### Periods of claim

4

The start date and end date of the accounting period, and the period of
account, to which the claim relates.

##### The relevant R&D

5

5.1

The following information in relation to the research and development to which
the claim relates.

5.2

The number of projects undertaken.

5.3

In relation to each relevant project—

5.3.a

a name by which the project can be referred to;

5.3.b

words identifying the field of science or technology with which the project is
concerned;

5.3.c

a description of—

5.3.c.i

the scientific or technological knowledge that existed when the project began
and that the project aimed to improve upon;

5.3.c.ii

the advance in scientific or technological knowledge that the project aimed to
achieve;

5.3.c.iii

the scientific or technological uncertainties that the project faced;

5.3.c.iv

how the project sought to overcome those uncertainties.

5.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

5.4.a

if the number given under sub-paragraph (2) is 3 or less, each of the projects
is a relevant project;

5.4.b

if the number is more than 3, subject to paragraph (c)—

5.4.b.i

the company must select 3 or more projects to treat as relevant projects, and

5.4.b.ii

those projects must together account for at least half of the qualifying
expenditure in respect of which the claim is made;

5.4.c

if—

5.4.c.i

the number is more than 10, and

5.4.c.ii

complying with paragraph (b) would lead to more than 10 projects being treated
as relevant projects,

the 10 projects accounting for the 10 highest shares of the qualifying
expenditure in respect of which the claim is made (but only those projects)
are relevant projects.

5.5

If the claim relates to an accounting period beginning on or after 1st April
2024, whether the research and development was undertaken—

5.5.a

entirely in the United Kingdom,

5.5.b

entirely outside the United Kingdom, or

5.5.c

partly in and partly outside the United Kingdom.

5.6

If the claim relates to an accounting period beginning before 1st April 2024,
whether or not the research and development was undertaken entirely in the
United Kingdom.

##### Qualifying expenditure: claims under the new schemes

6

6.1

If the claim relates to an accounting period beginning on or after 1st April
2024, the following information.

6.2

The amount of qualifying expenditure in respect of which the claim is made.

6.3

In this paragraph, “qualifying expenditure”—

6.3.a

in relation to a claim under Chapter 1A of Part 13 of CTA 2009 , means
qualifying Chapter 1A expenditure ;

6.3.b

in relation to a claim under Chapter 2 of that Part, means qualifying Chapter
2 expenditure .

6.4

The amount of the qualifying expenditure that falls within each of the
following categories—

6.4.a

in-house expenditure incurred on staffing costs ;

6.4.b

in-house expenditure incurred on software;

6.4.c

in-house expenditure incurred on data licences;

6.4.d

in-house expenditure incurred on cloud computing;

6.4.e

in-house expenditure incurred on consumable items ;

6.4.f

in-house expenditure that is qualifying expenditure on externally provided
workers ;

6.4.g

in-house expenditure incurred on relevant payments to the subjects of a
clinical trial ;

6.4.h

expenditure incurred in making the qualifying element of a contractor payment
.

6.5

If an amount more than nil is given for the category in sub-paragraph (4)(f)—

6.5.a

the number of externally provided workers whose earnings form part of the
qualifying expenditure concerned;

6.5.b

in relation to each such worker, the employer’s PAYE reference, if available;

6.5.c

whether any of the qualifying expenditure concerned is attributable to
research and development undertaken outside the United Kingdom, and if so—

6.5.c.i

how much;

6.5.c.ii

in respect of each worker whose earnings form part of the expenditure, whether
the company or the staff controller  is required to account both for income
tax under PAYE regulations and for Class 1 national insurance contributions in
respect of any part of those earnings;

6.5.d

if—

6.5.d.i

a negative answer is given under paragraph (c)(ii) of this sub-paragraph in
respect of any worker, and

6.5.d.ii

no positive answer was given under paragraph (a) or (b) of paragraph 1(2) of
this Schedule,

the company’s reasons for considering that section 1138A of CTA 2009  applies.

6.6

No more than 10 references need to be given under sub-paragraph (5)(b); but in
selecting which references to give from more than 10, the company must not
omit the reference of an employer that employed more of the workers referred
to in sub-paragraph (5)(a) than an employer whose reference is given.

6.7

If an amount more than nil is given for the category in sub-paragraph (4)(h)—

6.7.a

the identity of each relevant contractor;

6.7.b

the employer’s PAYE reference for each relevant contractor, if available;

6.7.c

in relation to each relevant contractor, the amount of the qualifying
expenditure concerned that consists of contractor payments  to that
contractor;

6.7.d

whether any of the qualifying expenditure concerned is attributable to
research and development undertaken outside the United Kingdom, and if so how
much;

6.7.e

if—

6.7.e.i

a positive answer is given under paragraph (d) of this sub-paragraph, and

6.7.e.ii

no positive answer was given under paragraph (a) or (b) of paragraph 1(2) of
this Schedule,

the company’s reasons for considering that section 1138A of CTA 2009 applies.

6.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (7)—

6.8.a

a “relevant contractor” is a company that received a contractor payment that
is comprised in the qualifying expenditure notified under sub-paragraph
(4)(h);

6.8.b

if there are 10 or fewer such companies, each is a relevant contractor;

6.8.c

if there are more than 10 such companies, only the 10 that received payments
accounting for the 10 highest shares of the qualifying expenditure notified
under sub-paragraph (4)(h) (taking together separate payments made to a single
company) are relevant contractors.

6.9

The amount of the qualifying expenditure that is attributable to qualifying
indirect activities.

##### Qualifying expenditure: claims under the old schemes

7

7.1

If the claim relates to an accounting period beginning before 1st April 2024,
the following information.

7.2

The amount of qualifying R&D expenditure in respect of which the claim is
made.

7.3

In this paragraph, “qualifying expenditure”—

7.3.a

in relation to a claim under Chapter 6A of Part 3 of CTA 2009 , means
qualifying R&D expenditure ;

7.3.b

in relation to a claim under Chapter 2 of Part 13 of CTA 2009, means
qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure .

7.4

The amount of the qualifying expenditure that falls within each of the
following categories—

7.4.a

in-house expenditure incurred on staffing costs;

7.4.b

in-house expenditure incurred on software;

7.4.c

in-house expenditure incurred on data licences;

7.4.d

in-house expenditure incurred on cloud computing;

7.4.e

in-house expenditure incurred on consumable items;

7.4.f

in-house expenditure that is qualifying expenditure on externally provided
workers;

7.4.g

in-house expenditure incurred on relevant payments to the subjects of a
clinical trial;

7.4.h

qualifying expenditure on contracted out research and development ;

7.4.i

in the case of a claim under Chapter 6A of Part 3 of CTA 2009, subsidised
qualifying expenditure on contracted out research and development ;

7.4.j

also in such a case, qualifying expenditure on contributions to independent
research and development .

7.5

The amount of the qualifying expenditure that is attributable to qualifying
indirect activities.

##### R&D intensity threshold

8

8.1

If the claim—

8.1.a

is made under Chapter 2 of Part 13 of CTA 2009, and

8.1.b

relies on the company having met the R&D intensity condition  in the
accounting period to which the claim relates,

the following information.

8.2

The total amount forming part of the company’s total relevant expenditure for
the period by virtue of paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 1045ZA(5) of CTA
2009.

8.3

The amount forming part of the company’s total relevant expenditure for the
period by virtue of paragraph (c) of that subsection.

8.4

The company’s relevant R&D expenditure for the period .

8.5

In relation to each company (if any) that the claimant company is aware of
having been connected with  on any day within the period—

8.5.a

registered name (or, in the case of a company other than a registered company,
formal name);

8.5.b

country of registration (or, in the case of a company other than a registered
company, the country in which it is based);

8.5.c

registered number, in the case of a company registered in the United Kingdom;

8.5.d

the total amount forming part of the company’s total relevant expenditure for
the period by virtue of paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 1045ZA(5) of CTA
2009;

8.5.e

the amount forming part of the company’s total relevant expenditure for the
period by virtue of paragraph (c) of that subsection;

8.5.f

the company’s relevant R&D expenditure for the period.

##### Companies creating or managing intellectual property

9

Whether the claim relies on the application of section 1058D or 1112E of CTA
2009  to the company, and if so, the company’s reasons for considering that
the section in question applies.

##### Information relating to limit in Northern Ireland

10

10.1

If a positive answer was given under sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of paragraph
1(2)—

10.1.a

the aggregate Chapter 2 net benefit obtained by the company in the 2 most
recent accounting periods before that to which the claim relates, and

10.1.b

a statement to the effect that the obtaining of relief by the company in the
amount claimed would not produce a breach of the limit that applies by virtue
of regulation 4 of the Chapter 2 Regulations.

10.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(a), the Chapter 2 net benefit obtained
by a company in an accounting period is the amount produced by applying the
formula in regulation 4(4) of the Chapter 2 Regulations in relation to that
period.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Section 1142A of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 (“CTA09”) imposes a
requirement for a company to make a claim notification for the purposes of
provisions in Part 3 and Part 13 of CTA09. Regulation 2 specifies the
information that must be provided by a company for the purposes of claim
notifications made under section 1142A CTA09.

  Part 9A of Schedule 18 to the Finance Act 1998 deals with claims for R&D
expenditure credits or R&D tax relief. Paragraph 83EA of Schedule 18 to the
Finance Act 1998 provides that a claim is invalid unless the claimant company
has provided to an officer of Revenue and Customs certain additional
information. Regulation 3 specifies the information that must be provided by
the claimant company.

  Regulation 4 makes an amendment to the Electronic Communications Regulations
2003 so that the claim notification made under Part 3 of CTA09 and additional
information provided under paragraph 83EA(1) of Schedule 18 to the Finance Act
1998 and amended returns that relate to an R&D claim must be delivered
electronically.

  A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument is published on
the website at  https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/tax-information-and-
impact-notes-tiins .

