Title: The Goods Vehicles (Testing) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-31
Description: These Regulations amend Part I and II of Schedule 1 to the Goods Vehicles (Testing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 to increase the fees payable as follows—For light goods vehicles 3,500 kilograms or less £30.50 to £38.00For vehicles exceeding 3,500 kilograms maximum gross weight or more—The fee payable on application for a first test, periodical test or an appeal is increased—for a 2 axle rigid vehicle from £76.00 to £101.00;for a 3 axle rigid vehicle from £87.00 to £109.00;for a 4 axle rigid vehicle from £98.50 to £117.50;for an articulated vehicle having a 2 axle drawing vehicle, from £80.50 to £101.00; andfor an articulated vehicle having a 3 or more axle drawing vehicle, from £93.50 to £109.00For trailers—The fee payable on application for a first test, a periodical test, or an appeal is increased—For a 1 axle trailer, from £50.00 to £86.50;For a 2 axle trailer, from £51.00 to £86.50; andFor a 3 axle trailer, from £52.00 to £86.50.The fees for retests—For light goods vehicles 3,500 kilograms or less £18.50 to £29.50;For vehicles exceeding 3,500 kilograms maximum gross weight or more £18.50 to £38.00;Articulated drawing vehicle £19.50 to £38.00; andTrailers £19.50 to £38.00.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/126

## The Goods Vehicles (Testing) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

Road Traffic and Vehicles

Made 5th September 2023

Coming into operation 1st October 2023

The Department for Infrastructure  makes the following Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by Articles 65(1) and (2), 67(1)(h) and 110(2) of the
Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Goods Vehicles (Testing) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1 st
October 2023.

### Amendment of the Goods Vehicles (Testing) Regulations (Northern Ireland)

2

In the Goods Vehicles (Testing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003  for
Schedule 1 substitute—

  FEES

Regulations 10(2), 13(3) and (4) and 17(4)

######### FEE PAYABLE ON APPLICATION UNDER REGULATIONS 10(2), 13(3) OR 17(4)

      (1) Class of Vehicle (2) Amount of Fee   3,500 kilograms maximum gross
weight or under £ 38.00 Over 3,500 kilograms maximum gross weight (i) 2 axle
rigid vehicle £101.00 (ii) 3 axle rigid vehicle £109.00 (iii) 4 axle rigid
vehicle £117.50 (iv) articulated vehicle having a 2 axle drawing vehicle
£101.00 (v) articulated vehicle having a 3 or more axle drawing vehicle
£109.00 Trailer— (i) 1 axle trailer £86.50 (ii) 2 axle trailer £86.50 (iii) 3
axle trailer £86.50

######### FEE PAYABLE ON APPLICATION UNDER REGULATION 13(4)

      (1) Class of Vehicle (2) Amount of Fee   3,500 kilograms maximum gross
weight or under £29.50 Over 3,500 kilograms maximum gross weight £38.00
Articulated vehicle £38.00 Trailer £38.00

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 5
th  September 2023         Chris Hughes   A senior officer of the   Department
for Infrastructure

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  These Regulations amend Part I and II of Schedule 1 to the Goods Vehicles
(Testing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 to increase the fees payable as
follows—     1     For light goods vehicles 3,500 kilograms or less £30.50 to
£38.00         2     For vehicles exceeding 3,500 kilograms maximum gross
weight or more—     a     The fee payable on application for a first test,
periodical test or an appeal is increased—     i     for a 2 axle rigid
vehicle from £76.00 to £101.00;         ii     for a 3 axle rigid vehicle from
£87.00 to £109.00;         iii     for a 4 axle rigid vehicle from £98.50 to
£117.50;         iv     for an articulated vehicle having a 2 axle drawing
vehicle, from £80.50 to £101.00; and         v     for an articulated vehicle
having a 3 or more axle drawing vehicle, from £93.50 to £109.00
3     For trailers—     a     The fee payable on application for a first test,
a periodical test, or an appeal is increased—     i     For a 1 axle trailer,
from £50.00 to £86.50;         ii     For a 2 axle trailer, from £51.00 to
£86.50; and         iii     For a 3 axle trailer, from £52.00 to £86.50.
4     The fees for retests—     a     For light goods vehicles 3,500 kilograms
or less £18.50 to £29.50;         b     For vehicles exceeding 3,500 kilograms
maximum gross weight or more £18.50 to £38.00;         c     Articulated
drawing vehicle £19.50 to £38.00; and         d     Trailers £19.50 to £38.00.

  An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment has been
produced and are available from Safe and Accessible Travel Division,
Department for Infrastructure, Clarence Court, 10-18 Adelaide Street, Town
Parks, Belfast BT2 8GB or online alongside this Regulation at
http//www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr

