Title: The County Court Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order amends the County Court Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 103) to increase the fees payable in respect of proceedings in the county court over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024). It also amends the 1996 Order to introduce some new fees and make other amendments in consequence of amendments to the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (S.I. 1996 No. 3158 (N.I. 22)) and the Registration of Clubs (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (S.I. 1996 No. 3159 (N.I. 23)) made by the Licensing and Registration of Clubs (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2021 (c.7).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/166

## The County Court Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

County Courts

Made 10th October 2023

Coming into operation 1st November 2023

The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
116(1) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978  and now vested in it ,
makes the following Order with the concurrence of the Department of Finance .
The Department has, in accordance with section 116(1) of that Act, consulted
with the Lady Chief Justice.

### Citation and commencement


1

This Order may be cited as the County Court Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st November 2023.

### Amendment of the County Court Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996


2

The County Court Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996  is amended as follows.

3

For Schedule 1 substitute the new Schedule 1 set out in the Schedule to this
Order.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 10th October
2023 Richard Pengelly A senior officer of the Department of Justice The
Department of Finance concurs in the making of this Order. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 10th October 2023 Patrick Neeson
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

Article 3

Article 4

Fees to be taken in proceedings in County Courts  Section I — Fees to be taken
in respect of proceedings not otherwise specifically provided for in any
subsequent section of this Schedule. Section II — Fees to be taken for
specified proceedings within the equity and probate jurisdiction. Section III
— Fees to be taken in respect of proceedings under the Licensing (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996, the Registration of Clubs (Northern Ireland) Order 1996
and the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order
1985. Section IV — Miscellaneous fees relating to civil proceedings and
matters. Section V — Fees to be taken in respect of applications for small
claims under Article 30(3) of the Order. Section VI — Fees to be taken in
respect of proceedings under the Criminal Damage (Compensation) (Northern
Ireland) Order 1977 (“ the Criminal Damage Order ”). Section VII — Fees to be
taken in respect of proceedings under the Family Law Act 1986.

######## Fees to be taken in respect of proceedings not otherwise specifically provided for in any subsequent section of this Schedule


Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1 On any affidavit No fee No fee 2 On an attendance of an
officer to produce records (in addition to the officer’s expenses), for each
hour or part thereof £20.00 per hour £22.00 per hour 3 On a bond or
recognizance £71.00 £77.00 4 On a case stated £213.00 £232.00 5 On a
certificate by a court officer (inclusive of search) £43.00 £47.00 6 On a
civil bill, application or notice claiming (whether on foot of a contract or
tort or by virtue of any enactment or otherwise) a sum of money or goods or
chattels or any combination thereof of a value— not exceeding £1000 £213.00
£232.00 exceeding £1000 but not exceeding £5000 £235.00 £256.00 exceeding
£5000 £264.00 £288.00 7 On a civil bill in an ejectment action £213.00 £232.00
8 On any other civil bill £213.00 £232.00 9 On a third party notice Same fee
as on the civil bill in the action Same fee as on the civil bill in the action
10 On a counterclaim or set-off where the amount thereof— does not exceed
£1000 £213.00 £232.00 exceeds £1000 but does not exceed £5000 £235.00 £256.00
exceeds £5000 £264.00 £288.00 11 On a copy, including a photographic copy, of
all or any part of any document not otherwise provided for— a) five sheets or
less £7.00 £8.00 b) for each sheet thereafter £0.50 £0.50 c) on a copy
order/decree including certified or sealed £15.00 £16.00 d) on a copy
order/decree produced online £13.00 £14.00 12 On a decree, award, judgment,
order or dismiss (other than an interlocutory order) £107.00 £117.00 13 On an
interlocutory order, including an order for payment out of, or transfer or
investment of, funds in court No fee No fee 14 On a Certificate of Readiness
£356.00 £388.00 15 On a notice of appeal to a county court (not otherwise
provided for) £213.00 £232.00 16 On a notice of application to the judge for
payment of funds out of court £22.00 £24.00 17 On any notice or other document
in an application to the Accountant General for payment out or transfer of
funds and securities in court No fee No fee 18 In any proceedings under the
Adoption (Northern Ireland) Order 1987, under that Order as modified by the
Parental Orders (Human Fertilisation and Embryology) Regulations 1994 or under
section 30 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 £107.00 £117.00
19 On a notice, petition, summons or other form of application (not otherwise
provided for) initiating any proceedings £213.00 £232.00 20 On a notice of
application for a review by the judge £165.00 £180.00 21 On any notice of
application, summons, notice of motion or other form of application to the
judge or to the District Judge (not otherwise exempted or specifically
provided for) £165.00 £180.00 22 a) On a search or inspection £28.00 £31.00 b)
Additional fee where the search is carried out by an officer of the court
£15.00 £16.00 23 On a witness summons £43.00 £47.00 24 On a certificate of
application for discovery £71.00 £77.00 25 Entry of a remitted action where a
setting down fee has not already been paid £356.00 £388.00 Note: In the
application of item 6 to proceedings under the Judgments Enforcement (Northern
Ireland) Order 1981 the fee on an Enforcement Civil Bill shall be the same as
is payable on a civil bill for the amount claimed; and on a Committal Civil
Bill shall be the same as for a civil bill for the amount of the instalment.

######## Fees to be taken for specified proceedings within the equity and probate jurisdiction


Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1 On a civil bill or petition, where the property or estate of
the subject matter of the proceedings— a) either insofar as it consists of
lands or premises does not exceed a capital value of £185,000 or insofar as it
consists of personalty does not exceed £500 in amount or value £213.00 £232.00
b) either insofar as it consists of lands or premises exceeds a capital value
of £185,000 or insofar as it consists of personalty exceeds £500 in amount or
value £249.00 £271.00 Provided that in a case of a mortgage suit or creditor’s
administration suit where the amount claimed does not exceed £300 the fee on
the civil bill shall be the same fee as prescribed in 1(a) 2 On a primary or
final decree, order or dismiss £107.00 £117.00 3 On a decree or order not
otherwise provided for (including an interlocutory order) £107.00 £117.00 4 On
the taking of an account or the holding of an inquiry by an officer pursuant
to an order of the judge, for each hour or part thereof £107.00 £117.00 5 On
the officer’s certificate thereof £43.00 £47.00 6 On an affidavit for the
lodgement in court of a sum of money (fee to cover all necessary notices and
certificates by the chief clerk) £71.00 £77.00 7 On a counterclaim in equity
proceedings £213.00 £232.00 Note: The fees prescribed above at items 1 and 2
cover, in the case of a probate suit, the Certificate of Decree to be
transmitted to the Probate Registry.

######## Fees to be taken in respect of proceedings under the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996, the Registration of Clubs (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 and the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order 1985


Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1 On a notice of application to the court in relation to a
licence, including notice of application for a declaration under Article 10 of
the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 or for an order under Article 31
of that Order £615.00 £670.00 2 On a notice of an application under Article 44
(Orders for additional permitted hours) of the Licensing (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996 £386.00 £421.00 3 On a notice of an application under Article 44A
(Public houses or hotels: order for further additional permitted hours) of the
Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 £386.00 £421.00 4 On a notice of an
application under Article 52E (Local producer’s premises: suitability for on-
sales) of the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 £386.00 £421.00 5 On a
notice of an application under Article 52F (Local producer’s premises:
authorisations for on- sales) of the Licensing (Northern Ireland Order 1996)
£97.00 £106.00 6 On a notice of an application under Article 58A (Suitability
of certain premises for underage functions) of the Licensing (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 £107.00 £117.00 7 On a notice of application to the court
for the grant of registration of a club under Article 5 of the Registration of
Clubs (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 £615.00 £670.00 8 On a notice of an
application under Article 12A (consent required for certain alterations to
premises) of the Registration of Clubs (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 £615.00
£670.00 9 On a notice of application to the Court in relation to a bookmaking
office licence (under Article 12(1) and Article 14(1) of the Betting, Gaming,
Lotteries and Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order 1985 £615.00 £670.00

######## Miscellaneous fees relating to civil proceedings and matters


Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 UNDER PART V (ENFORCEMENT OF COUNTY COURT DECREES OUTSIDE
NORTHERN IRELAND) OF ORDER 40 1 On a certified copy of a decree, or a
certificate in respect of a money provision issued under Part V of Order 40
£71.00 £77.00 This fee includes provision of the appropriate certificate in
Forms 295-298 UNDER THE PARLIAMENTARY DOCUMENTS DEPOSIT ACT 1837 2 On a search
in papers deposited under Standing Orders of Parliament, for each hour or part
thereof £28.00 £31.00 UNDER ARTICLE 5 OF THE PROTECTION FROM HARASSMENT
(NORTHERN IRELAND) ORDER 1997 3 On an application for a warrant of arrest
£0.00 £0.00 UNDER RULE 91 OF THE LAND REGISTRATION RULES (NORTHERN IRELAND)
1994 AND SECTION 3(2) OF THE REGISTRATION OF DEEDS ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 1970
4 On a request for certification of a pending action required under Rule 91(3)
of the Land Registration Rules (Northern Ireland) 1994 or section 3(2) of the
Registration of Deeds Act (Northern Ireland) 1970 £98.00 £107.00

######## Fees to be taken in respect of applications for small claims under Article 30(3) of the Order


Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1 On lodging an application in which the amount claimed, or the
value of the specific chattels claimed— does not exceed £300 £43.00 £47.00
exceeds £300 but does not exceed £500 £71.00 £77.00 exceeds £500 but does not
exceed £1000 £99.00 £108.00 exceeds £1000 £142.00 £155.00 2 On a counterclaim
or set-off where the amount thereof— does not exceed £300 £43.00 £47.00
exceeds £300 but does not exceed £500 £71.00 £77.00 exceeds £500 but does not
exceed £1000 £99.00 £108.00 exceeds £1000 £142.00 £155.00 3 On a notice of
appeal under Article 30(4)(ab) £213.00 £232.00 4 On a third party notice in a
small claims action Same fee as on the small claim application in the action
Same fee as on the small claim application in the action

######## Fees to be taken in respect of proceedings under the Criminal Damage (Compensation) (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 (“

Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1 On a notice of appeal to a county court under Article 15 of
the Criminal Damage Order £213.00 £232.00 2 On a Certificate of Readiness
£356.00 £388.00

######## Fees to be taken in respect of proceedings under the Family Law Act 1986


Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 No. of Fee Item Amount of Fee As from 01/11/23 As
from 01/10/24 1 On an application under section 27 of the Family Law Act 1986
for the registration of a custody order £107.00 £117.00

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends the County Court Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 ( S.R.
1996 No. 103 ) to increase the fees payable in respect of proceedings in the
county court over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November
2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024). It also
amends the 1996 Order to introduce some new fees and make other amendments in
consequence of amendments to the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (
S.I. 1996 No. 3158 (N.I. 22) ) and the Registration of Clubs (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996 No. 3159 (N.I. 23) ) made by the Licensing and
Registration of Clubs (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland)  2021 (c.7) .

An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from the Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals
Service, Laganside House, 23-27 Oxford Street, Belfast BT1 3LA or online
alongside this Statutory Rule at  www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

