Title: The Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Prescribed Requirements and Default Scheme) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2023
Date: 2023-07-27
Description: These Regulations amend the Council Tax Reduction Schemes and Prescribed Requirements (Wales) Regulations 2013 (“the Prescribed Requirements Regulations”) and the Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Default Scheme) (Wales) Regulations 2013 (“the Default Scheme Regulations”) made under section 13A(4) and (5) of, and Schedule 1B to, the Local Government Finance Act 1992 (“the 1992 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/47

## The Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Prescribed Requirements and Default Scheme) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2023

    Council Tax, Wales

  Made   18 January 2023

  Coming into force   20 January 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred upon them by section 13A(4) and (5) of, and paragraphs 2 to 6
of Schedule 1B to, the Local Government Finance Act 1992 .           In
accordance with section 13A(8) of that Act, a draft of this instrument has
been laid before and approved by resolution of Senedd Cymru .

### Title, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Council Tax Reduction Schemes
(Prescribed Requirements and Default Scheme) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations
2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 20 January 2023.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to a council tax reduction scheme made for
a financial year beginning on or after 1 April 2023.

1.4

In these Regulations—

“ billing authority ” (“ awdurdod bilio ”) has the meaning given in section
1(2)(b) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 (“ the 1992 Act ”); “ council
tax reduction scheme ” (“ cynllun gostyngiadau’r dreth gyngor ”) means a
scheme made by a billing authority in accordance with the Council Tax
Reduction Schemes and Prescribed Requirements (Wales) Regulations 2013 , or
the scheme that applies in default by virtue of paragraph 6(1)(e) of Schedule
1B to the 1992 Act.

### Amendments to the Council Tax Reduction Schemes and Prescribed Requirements (Wales) Regulations 2013

2

The Council Tax Reduction Schemes and Prescribed Requirements (Wales)
Regulations 2013 are amended in accordance with regulations 3 to 9.

3

3.1

Regulation 9 (non-dependants) is amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and
(3).

3.2

After paragraph (2)(f) insert—

3.2.g

a person who has been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
under or outside the immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971  or has a right of abode in the United Kingdom, within
the meaning of section 2  of that Act, where the person—

3.2.g.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022;

3.2.g.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022; and

3.2.g.iii

is residing with the applicant in connection with the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme .

3.3

in paragraph (3) for “2(a) to (c) and (f)” substitute  “2(a) to (c), (f) and
(g)” .

4

4.1

Regulation 28(5) (persons treated as not being in Great Britain) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

4.2

After sub-paragraph (m)(ii), omit “or”.

4.3

At the end of sub-paragraph (n), for “.” substitute  “; or” .

4.4

After sub-paragraph (n) insert—

4.4.o

a person in Great Britain who was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1
January 2022, left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took
place on 24 February 2022 and—

4.4.o.i

has been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971; or

4.4.o.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act.

5

5.1

Regulation 29 (persons subject to immigration control) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

5.2

In paragraph (1) for “Subject to paragraph (2), the” substitute “The” .

5.3

Omit paragraph (2).

6

In Schedule 1 (determining eligibility for a reduction: pensioners), in
paragraph 3 (non-dependant deductions: pensioners)—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “£15.95” substitute  “£16.40” ;

6.b

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “£5.30” substitute  “£5.45” ;

6.c

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “£224.00” substitute  “£236.00” ;

6.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “£224.00”, “£389.00” and “£10.60” substitute
“£236.00”, “£410.00” and “£10.90” respectively;

6.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “£389.00”, “£484.00” and “£13.35” substitute
“£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£13.70” respectively.

7

In Schedule 2 (applicable amounts: pensioners)—

7.a

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 1 (personal allowance)—

7.a.i

in sub-paragraph (1) for “£197.10” substitute  “£217.00” ;

7.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (2) for “£294.90” substitute  “£324.70” ;

7.a.iii

in sub-paragraph (3) for “£294.90” and “£97.80” substitute  “£324.70”  and
“£107.70”  respectively;

7.b

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 2(1) (child or young person amounts),
for “£70.80”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “£77.78” ;

7.c

in paragraph 3 (family premium), for “£17.85” substitute  “£18.53” ;

7.d

in the Table in Part 4 (amounts of premium specified in Part 3), in the second
column—

7.d.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£69.40”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“£76.40”  and for “£138.80” substitute  “£152.80” ;

7.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “£27.44” substitute  “£30.17” ;

7.d.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ;

7.d.iv

in sub-paragraph (4), for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” .

8

In Schedule 6 (determining eligibility for a reduction: persons who are not
pensioners), in paragraph 5 (non-dependant deductions: persons who are not
pensioners)—

8.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “£15.95” substitute  “£16.40” ;

8.b

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “£5.30” substitute  “£5.45” ;

8.c

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “£224.00” substitute  “£236.00” ;

8.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “£224.00”, “£389.00” and “£10.60” substitute
“£236.00”, “£410.00” and “£10.90” respectively;

8.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “£389.00”, “£484.00” and “£13.35” substitute
“£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£13.70” respectively.

9

In Schedule 7 (applicable amounts: persons who are not pensioners)—

9.a

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 1 (personal allowances)—

9.a.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£82.10”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“£90.40”  and for “£65.00” substitute  “£71.55” ;

9.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “£82.10” substitute  “£90.40” ;

9.a.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), for “£128.95” substitute  “£141.95” ;

9.b

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 3(1), for “£70.80”, in both places it
occurs, substitute  “£77.78” ;

9.c

in paragraph 4(1)(b) (family premium), for “£17.85” substitute  “£18.53” ;

9.d

in the Table in Part 4 (amounts of premiums specified in Part 3), in the
second column—

9.d.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£36.20” and “£51.60” substitute  “£39.85”  and
“£56.80”  respectively;

9.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “£69.40”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“£76.40”  and for “£138.80” substitute  “£152.80” ;

9.d.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ;

9.d.iv

in sub-paragraph (4), for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” ;

9.d.v

in sub-paragraph (5), for “£27.44”, “£17.75” and “£25.35” substitute “£30.17”,
“£19.55” and “£27.90” respectively;

9.e

in Part 6 (amount of components)—

9.e.i

in paragraph 23, for “£30.60” substitute  “£33.70” ;

9.e.ii

in paragraph 24, for “£40.60” substitute  “£44.70” .

### Amendments to the Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Default Scheme) (Wales) Regulations 2013

10

The scheme set out in the Schedule to the Council Tax Reduction Schemes
(Default Scheme) (Wales) Regulations 2013  is amended in accordance with
regulations 11 to 16.

11

11.1

Paragraph 9 (non-dependants) is amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and
(3).

11.2

After sub-paragraph (2)(f) insert—

11.2.g

any person who has been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
under or outside the immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971 or has a right of abode in the United Kingdom, within the
meaning of section 2 of that Act, where the person—

11.2.g.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022;

11.2.g.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022; and

11.2.g.iii

is residing with the applicant in connection with the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme.

11.3

in sub-paragraph (3) for “2(a) to (c) and (f)” substitute  “2(a) to (c), (f)
and (g)” .

12

12.1

Paragraph 19(5) (persons treated as not being in Great Britain) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

12.2

After paragraph (m)(ii), omit “or”.

12.3

At the end of paragraph (n), for “.” substitute  “; or” .

12.4

After paragraph (n) insert—

12.4.o

a person in Great Britain who was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1
January 2022, left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took
place on 24 February 2022 and—

12.4.o.i

has been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance
with immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 or

12.4.o.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act.

13

13.1

Paragraph 20 (persons subject to immigration control) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs (2) and (3).

13.2

In sub-paragraph (1) for “Subject to sub-paragraph (2), persons” substitute
“Persons” .

13.3

Omit sub-paragraph (2).

14

In paragraph 28 (non-dependant deductions: pensioners and persons who are not
pensioners)—

14.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “£15.95” substitute  “£16.40” ;

14.b

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “£5.30” substitute  “£5.45” ;

14.c

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “£224.00” substitute  “£236.00” ;

14.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “£224.00”, “£389.00” and “£10.60” substitute
“£236.00”, “£410.00” and “£10.90” respectively;

14.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “£389.00”, “£484.00” and “£13.35” substitute
“£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£13.70” respectively.

15

In Schedule 2 (applicable amounts: pensioners)—

15.a

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 1 (personal allowances)—

15.a.i

in sub-paragraph (1) for “£197.10” substitute  “£217.00” ;

15.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (2) for “£294.90” substitute  “£324.70” ;

15.a.iii

in sub-paragraph (3) of the English text for “£294.90” and “£97.80” substitute
“£324.70”  and  “£107.70”  respectively;

15.a.iv

in sub-paragraph (3) of the Welsh text for “£294.90” and “£97.90” substitute
“£324.70”  and  “£107.70”  respectively;

15.b

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 2(1) (child or young person amounts),
for “£70.80”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “£77.78” ;

15.c

in paragraph 3 (family premium), for “£17.85” substitute  “£18.53” ;

15.d

in the Table in Part 4 (amounts of premium specified in Part 3), in the second
column—

15.d.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£69.40” in both places it occurs, substitute
“£76.40”  and for “£138.80” substitute  “£152.80” ;

15.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “£27.44” substitute  “£30.17” ;

15.d.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ;

15.d.iv

in sub-paragraph (4), for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” .

16

In Schedule 3 (applicable amounts: persons who are not pensioners)—

16.a

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 1 (personal allowances)—

16.a.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£82.10”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“£90.40”  and for “£65.00” substitute  “£71.55” ;

16.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “£82.10” substitute  “£90.40” ;

16.a.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), for “£128.95” substitute  “£141.95” ;

16.b

in column (2) of the Table in paragraph 3(1) (child or young person amounts),
for “£70.80”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “£77.78” ;

16.c

in paragraph 4(1)(b) (family premium), for “£17.85” substitute  “£18.53” ;

16.d

in the Table in Part 4 (amount of premiums specified in Part 3), in the second
column—

16.d.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£36.20” and “£51.60” substitute  “£39.85”  and
“£56.80”  respectively;

16.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “£69.40”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“£76.40”  and for “£138.80” substitute  “£152.80” ;

16.d.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), for “£68.04” substitute  “£74.69” ;

16.d.iv

in sub-paragraph (4), for “£38.85” substitute  “£42.75” ;

16.d.v

in sub-paragraph (5), for “£27.44”, “£17.75” and “£25.35” substitute “£30.17”,
“£19.55” and “£27.90” respectively;

16.e

in Part 6 (amount of components)—

16.e.i

in paragraph 23, for “£30.60” substitute  “£33.70” ;

16.e.ii

in paragraph 24, for “£40.60” substitute  “£44.70” .

Rebecca Evans Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the Welsh
Ministers 18 January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Council Tax Reduction Schemes and Prescribed
Requirements (Wales) Regulations 2013 (“ the Prescribed Requirements
Regulations ”) and the Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Default Scheme) (Wales)
Regulations 2013 (“ the Default Scheme Regulations ”) made under section
13A(4) and (5) of, and Schedule 1B to, the Local Government Finance Act 1992
(“ the 1992 Act ”).

  The Prescribed Requirements Regulations require each billing authority in
Wales to make a scheme specifying the reductions that are to apply to amounts
of council tax payable by persons, or classes of persons, whom the authority
considers are in financial need. The Prescribed Requirements Regulations also
set out the matters that must be included in such a scheme.

  The Default Scheme Regulations set out a scheme that will take effect, in
respect of dwellings situated in the area of a billing authority, if the
authority fails to make its own scheme.

  These Regulations amend the Prescribed Requirements Regulations and the
Default Scheme Regulations.

  Regulation 3 amends the definition of “non-dependant” in the Prescribed
Requirements Regulations so that a person who has leave to enter or remain in,
or a right of abode in, the United Kingdom, who left Ukraine in connection
with the Russian invasion and who resides with an applicant under the Homes
for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, must be treated as dependent on the applicant
for the purpose of calculating entitlement to a council tax discount. The same
amendment is made to the Default Scheme Regulations by regulation 11.

  Regulation 4 inserts a new category into the list of persons who are not to
be treated as not being in Great Britain for the purpose of the residence
criteria set out in regulation 28 of the Prescribed Requirements Regulations.
The new category relates to persons to whom leave is granted under immigration
rules, or who have a right of abode in the United Kingdom, where that person
was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022 and who left Ukraine
in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022.
The effect of the amendment is to ensure those persons are not treated as not
being habitually resident in Great Britain for the purpose of determining an
applicant’s eligibility for a council tax reduction. The same amendment is
made to the Default Scheme Regulations by regulation 12.

  Regulation 5 amends regulation 29 of the Prescribed Requirements Regulations
which specifies that persons subject to immigration control are a class of
person prescribed for the purposes of paragraph 3(1)(b) of Schedule 1B to the
1992 Act and must not be included in a billing authority’s scheme. The
amendment removes the exception that a person who is a national of a state
which has ratified the European Convention on Social and Medical Assistance or
a state which has ratified the Council of Europe Social Charter and who is
lawfully present in the United Kingdom is not treated as a person subject to
immigration control. The same amendment is made to the Default Scheme
Regulations by regulation 13.

  The amendments made to the Prescribed Requirements Regulations by
regulations 6 to 9 uprate certain figures used to calculate whether a person
is entitled to a reduction, and if so, the amount of that reduction. The
uprated figures apply to non-dependant deductions (adjustments made to the
maximum amount of a reduction that a person can receive taking into account
adults living in the dwelling who are not the applicant’s dependants) and the
applicable amount (the amount against which an applicant’s income is compared
to determine the reduction, if any, which the applicant may be entitled to
receive). A number of other figures are also uprated to reflect changes to
various other entitlements. The same amendments are made to the Default Scheme
Regulations by regulations 14 to 16. Regulation 15 also corrects a
typographical error in the Welsh text of the Default Scheme Regulations.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, a regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely
costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained
from Local Government Finance Reform, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff,
CF10 3NQ and is published on   www.gov.wales  .

