Title: The Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein) (Norway) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order makes provision for the modification of certain social security legislation, so as to give effect to the Convention on Social Security Coordination between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed at London on 30th June 2023 (“the Convention”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/181

## The Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein) (Norway) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   19th October 2023

  Coming into operation in accordance with article 1(1)

      The Secretary of State and the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue
and Customs make the following Order in exercise of the powers conferred by
section 155(1)(a) and (2) of the Social Security Administration (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Social Security (Iceland) (Liechtenstein)
(Norway) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023 and comes into operation—

1.1.a

in relation to the United Kingdom and the first EEA EFTA State to notify the
Depositary in accordance with Article 74(1) and (2) (Entry into force) of the
Convention set out in the Schedule to this Order, on the first day of the
month following the later of the dates on which the Depositary receives the
notification of that EEA EFTA State and the United Kingdom ; and

1.1.b

in relation to an EEA EFTA State which notifies the Depositary after the
notification given by the EEA EFTA State referred to in sub-paragraph (a) in
accordance with Article 74(1) and (3) of the Convention set out in the
Schedule to this Order, on the first day of the month following the date on
which the Depositary receives the notification of that EEA EFTA State.

1.2

In this Order—

1.2.a

“ the Convention ” means the Convention on Social Security Coordination
between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed at London on
30th June 2023 ;

1.2.b

“the Depositary” is to be interpreted in accordance with Article 73(2)
(Authentic text and depositary) of the Convention set out in the Schedule to
this Order; and

1.2.c

“ EEA EFTA State ” has the meaning given to it in Article 1(o) (Definitions)
of the Convention set out in the Schedule to this Order.

### Modification of legislation


2

2.1

The legislation to which this paragraph applies is modified to the extent
required to give effect to the provisions contained in the Convention set out
in the Schedule to this Order, so far as they relate to Northern Ireland.

2.2

Paragraph  (1)  applies to—

2.2.a

the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 ;

2.2.b

the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 ;

2.2.c

the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ;

2.2.d

Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 ;

2.2.e

the State Pension Credit Act (Northern Ireland) 2002 ;

2.2.f

Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act (Northern Ireland) 2007 ;

2.2.g

Parts 2 and 5 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 ;

2.2.h

Parts 1 and 5 of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 ;

2.2.i

the following as they form part of domestic law by virtue of section 3 of the
European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 ;

2.2.i.i

Regulation  (EC) No 883/2004  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems;

2.2.i.ii

Regulation  (EC) No 987/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 September 2009 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation  (EC)
No 883/2004 ; and

2.2.j

regulations within the scope of section 155(5) of the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 .

### Variation of Orders


3

The Social Security (Iceland) Order (Northern Ireland) 1985  and the Social
Security (Norway) Order (Northern Ireland) 1991  are varied in accordance with
Article 78 (Relationship with pre-existing Social Security Coordination
Agreements) of the Convention set out in the Schedule to this Order, so far as
they relate to Northern Ireland.

      Signed by the authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
Guy Opperman   Minister of State   Department for Work and Pensions     17th
October 2023         Jonathan Athow   Jim Harra   Two of the Commissioners for
His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs     19th October 2023

  Convention on Social Security Coordination between Iceland, the Principality
of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland

Articles 1, 2 and 3

      PREAMBLE

  Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;

  NOTING that the United Kingdom withdrew from the European Union on 31
January 2020 and ceased applying the Agreement on the European Economic Area
with effect from 1 January 2021;

  RECOGNISING the importance of the coordination of social security rights
enjoyed by persons moving between the States to work, to stay or to reside, as
well as the rights enjoyed by their family members and survivors;

  Have agreed as follows:             TITLE I       GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1       Definitions

  For the purposes of this Convention, the following definitions apply:     a
“ the 1983 Convention ” means the 1983 Convention on Social Security between
the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
the Government of Iceland, signed in Reykjavik on 25 August 1983;         b
“ the 1990 Convention ” means the Convention on Social Security between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Government of the Kingdom of Norway, signed in Oslo on 19 June 1990;         c
“ activity as an employed person ” means any activity or equivalent situation
treated as such for the purposes of the social security legislation of the
State in which such activity or equivalent situation exists;         d     “
activity as a self-employed person ” means any activity or equivalent
situation treated as such for the purposes of the social security legislation
of the State in which such activity or equivalent situation exists;         e
“ activity in the continental shelf area ” means an activity which occurs in
the continental shelf area in connection with the exploration of the seabed or
subsoil or the exploitation of the natural resources of the continental shelf
area;         f     “ assisted reproduction services ” means any medical,
surgical or obstetric services provided for the purpose of assisting a person
to carry a child;         g     “ benefits in kind ” means:     i     for the
purposes of Chapter 1 of Title III, benefits in kind provided for under the
legislation of a State which are intended to supply, make available, pay
directly or reimburse the cost of medical care and products and services
ancillary to that care;         ii     for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Title
III, all benefits in kind relating to accidents at work and occupational
diseases as defined in sub-paragraph (i) of this definition and provided for
under the States’ accidents at work and occupational diseases schemes;
h     “ civil servant ” means a person considered to be such or treated as
such by the State to which the administration employing them is subject;
i     “ competent authority ” means, in respect of each State, the Minister,
Ministers or other equivalent authority responsible for social security
schemes throughout or in any part of the State in question;         j     “
competent institution ” means:     i     the institution with which the person
concerned is insured at the time of the application for benefit; or         ii
the institution from which the person concerned is or would be entitled to
benefits if that person or a member or members of their family resided in the
State in which the institution is situated; or         iii     the institution
designated by the competent authority of the State concerned; or         iv
in the case of a scheme relating to an employer’s obligations in respect of
the benefits set out in Article 6, either the employer or the insurer involved
or, in default thereof, the body or authority designated by the competent
authority of the State concerned;             k     “ competent State ” means
the State in which the competent institution is situated;         l     “
continental shelf area ” means, in relation to the United Kingdom, any area
outside the territorial sea of the United Kingdom which in accordance with
international law has been designated, under the laws of the United Kingdom
concerning the continental shelf, as an area within which the rights of the
United Kingdom with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural
resources may be exercised; and, in relation to Norway, the seabed and subsoil
of the submarine areas that extend beyond the territorial sea of the Kingdom
of Norway which, in accordance with international law, are subject to
Norwegian sovereign rights in respect of the exploration and exploitation of
natural resources;         m     “ death grant ” means any one-off payment in
the event of death, excluding the lump-sum benefits referred to in sub-
paragraph (ff);         n     “ EEA EFTA Separation Agreement ” means the
Agreement on arrangements between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein,
the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European
Union, the European Economic Area Agreement and other agreements applicable
between the United Kingdom and the EEA EFTA States by virtue of the United
Kingdom’s membership of the European Union, signed in London on 28 January
2020;         o     “ EEA EFTA State ” means each of Iceland, the Principality
of Liechtenstein (“Liechtenstein”) and/or the Kingdom of Norway (“Norway”),
collectively the “EEA EFTA States”;         p     “ electronic exchange ”
means a system for the exchange of social security information using
transmission by electronic means;         q     “ family benefit ” means all
benefits in kind or in cash intended to meet family expenses;         r     “
frontier worker ” means any person pursuing an activity as an employed or
self-employed person in a State and who resides in another State to which that
person returns as a rule daily or at least once a week;         s     “ home
base ” means the place from where the crew member normally starts and ends a
duty period or a series of duty periods, and where, under normal conditions,
the operator/airline is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew
member concerned;         t     “ institution ” means, in respect of each
State, the body or authority responsible for applying all or part of the
legislation;         u     “institution of the place of residence” and
“institution of the place of stay” mean, respectively, the institution which
is competent to provide benefits in the place where the person concerned
resides and the institution which is competent to provide benefits in the
place where the person concerned is staying, in accordance with the
legislation administered by that institution or, where no such institution
exists, the institution designated by the competent authority of the State
concerned;         v     “ insured person ”, in relation to the social
security branches covered by Chapters 1  and 3 of Title III, means any person
satisfying the conditions required under the legislation of the State
competent under Title II in order to have the right to benefits, taking into
account the provisions of this Convention;         w     “ Joint
Administrative Committee ” means the committee established under Article 70 of
this Convention.         x     “ legal residence ” means residence or stay in
accordance with the relevant State’s immigration laws;         y     “
legislation ” means, in respect of each State, laws, regulations and other
statutory provisions and all other implementing measures relating to the
social security branches covered by Article 6(1), but excludes contractual
provisions other than those which serve to implement an insurance obligation
arising from the laws and regulations referred to in this sub-paragraph or
which have been the subject of a decision by the public authorities which
makes them obligatory or extends their scope, provided that the State
concerned makes a declaration to that effect, notified to the other States and
to the Joint Administrative Committee;         z     “ long-term care benefit
” means a benefit in kind or in cash the purpose of which is to address the
care needs of a person who, on account of impairment, requires considerable
assistance, including but not limited to assistance from another person or
persons to carry out essential activities of daily living for an extended
period of time in order to support their personal autonomy; this includes
benefits granted for the same purpose to a person providing such assistance;
aa     “ member of the family ” means:     i     (A) any person defined or
recognised as a member of the family or designated as a member of the
household by the legislation under which benefits are provided;   (B) with
regard to benefits in kind pursuant to Chapter 1 of Title III, any person
defined or recognised as a member of the family or designated as a member of
the household by the legislation of the State in which that person resides;
ii     if the legislation of a State which is applicable under sub-paragraph
(i) does not make a distinction between the members of the family and other
persons to whom it is applicable, the spouse, minor children, and dependent
children who have reached the age of majority shall be considered members of
the family;         iii     if, under the legislation which is applicable
under sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii), a person is considered a member of the
family or member of the household only if that person lives in the same
household as the insured person or pensioner, this condition shall be
considered satisfied if the person in question is mainly dependent on the
insured person or pensioner;             bb     “ obligation of professional
secrecy ” means an obligation to protect information subject to such an
obligation effectively through appropriate security, technical and
organisational measures and prevent unauthorised access, unauthorised
modification and unauthorised disclosure of such information;         cc
“period of employment” or “period of self-employment” mean periods so defined
or recognised by the legislation under which they were completed, and all
periods treated as such, where they are regarded by that legislation as
equivalent to periods of employment or to periods of self-employment;
dd     “ period of insurance ” means periods of contribution, employment or
self-employment as defined or recognised as periods of insurance by the
legislation under which they were completed or considered as completed, and
all periods treated as such, where they are regarded by that legislation as
equivalent to periods of insurance;         ee     “ period of residence ”
means periods so defined or recognised by the legislation under which they
were completed or considered as completed;         ff     “pension” covers not
only pensions but also lump-sum benefits which can be substituted for them and
payments in the form of reimbursement of contributions and, subject to the
provisions of Title III, revaluation increases or supplementary allowances;
gg     “ personal data ” means any data concerning or relating to an
identified or identifiable natural person;         hh     “ refugee ” has the
meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention relating to the Status
of Refugees, signed in Geneva on 28 July 1951;         ii     “ registered
office or place of business ” means the registered office or place of business
where the essential decisions of the undertaking are adopted and where the
functions of its central administration are carried out;         jj
“residence”, except in Article 3, means the place where a person habitually
resides;         kk     “ special non-contributory cash benefits ” means those
non-contributory cash benefits which:     i     are intended to provide
either:   (A) supplementary, substitute or ancillary cover against the risks
covered by the branches of social security referred to in Article 6(1), and
which guarantee the persons concerned a minimum subsistence income having
regard to the economic and social situation in the State concerned; or   (B)
solely specific protection for the disabled, closely linked to the said
person’s social environment in the State concerned, and         ii     where
the financing exclusively derives from compulsory taxation intended to cover
general public expenditure and the conditions for providing and for
calculating the benefits are not dependent on any contribution in respect of
the beneficiary. However, benefits provided to supplement a contributory
benefit shall not be considered to be contributory benefits for this reason
alone;             ll     “special scheme for civil servants”, means any
social security scheme which is different from the general social security
scheme applicable to employed persons in the State concerned and to which all,
or certain categories of, civil servants are directly subject;         mm
“ State ” means each of the United Kingdom, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway,
collectively “States”;         nn     “ stateless person ” has the meaning
assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention relating to the Status of
Stateless Persons, signed in New York on 28 September 1954;         oo     “
stay ” means temporary residence.             ARTICLE 2       Persons Covered

  This Convention applies to persons, including stateless persons and
refugees, who are or have been subject to the legislation of one or more
States, as well as to the members of their families and their survivors.
ARTICLE 3       Legally Residing             1     This Convention applies to
persons legally residing in an EEA EFTA State or the United Kingdom.         2
Paragraph (1) shall not affect entitlements to cash benefits which relate to
previous periods of legal residence of persons covered by Article 2.
ARTICLE 4       Cross border situations                 1     This Convention
shall only apply to situations arising between one or more of the EEA EFTA
States and the United Kingdom.         2     Subject to paragraph (3), this
Convention shall not apply to persons whose situations are confined in all
respects either to the United Kingdom, or one or more of the EEA EFTA States.
3     This Convention shall not apply to persons whose situations are confined
in all respects either to the United Kingdom and the continental shelf area of
the United Kingdom, or Norway and the continental shelf area of Norway.
ARTICLE 5       Territorial Scope                 1     This Convention
applies, on the one hand, to the individual EEA EFTA States and, on the other
hand, to the United Kingdom.         2     The provisions of this Convention
shall not apply to the Norwegian territories of Svalbard and Jan Mayen.
ARTICLE 6       Matters Covered                 1     This Convention applies
to the following branches of social security:     a     sickness benefits;
b     maternity and equivalent paternity benefits;         c     invalidity
benefits;         d     old-age benefits;         e     survivors’ benefits;
f     benefits in respect of accidents at work and occupational diseases;
g     death grants; and         h     unemployment benefits.             2
In accordance with Article 70(3)(d), the Joint Administrative Committee may
prepare and maintain a list of cash benefits which the competent authorities
confirm fall within the branches of social security listed at paragraph (1).
3     Unless otherwise provided for in Annex 7, this Convention applies to
general and special social security schemes, whether contributory or non-
contributory, and to schemes relating to the obligations of an employer or
ship-owner.         4     The provisions of Title III do not, however, affect
the legislative provisions of any State concerning a ship-owner’s obligations.
5     This Convention does not apply to:     a     special non-contributory
cash benefits which are listed in Part 1 of Annex 2;         b     social and
medical assistance;         c     benefits in relation to which a State
assumes the liability for damages to persons and provides for compensation,
such as those for victims of war and military action or their consequences;
victims of crime, assassination, or terrorist acts; victims of damage
occasioned by agents of the State in the course of their duties; or victims
who have suffered a disadvantage for political or religious reasons or for
reasons of descent;         d     long-term care benefits which are listed in
Part 2 of Annex 2;         e     assisted reproduction services;         f
payments which are connected to a branch of social security listed in
paragraph (1) and which are:     i     paid to meet expenses for heating in
cold weather; and         ii     listed in Part 3 of Annex 2;             g
family benefits;         h     pre-retirement benefits;         i
Liechtenstein old-age, survivors’ and invalidity benefits under the statutory
occupational benefit plans;         j     any special scheme for civil
servants; or         k     Norway pension schemes under the Act on Mandatory
Occupational Pensions.             ARTICLE 7       Relationship with other
agreements                     1     This Convention applies without prejudice
to the EEA EFTA Separation Agreement.         2     Nothing in this Convention
shall be construed as requiring a State to act in a manner inconsistent with
its obligations under agreements with third countries.             ARTICLE 8
Equality of treatment                 1     Unless otherwise provided for in
this Convention, as regards the branches of social security and benefits
covered by Article 6(1), persons to whom this Convention applies shall enjoy
the same benefits and be subject to the same obligations under the legislation
of any State as the nationals thereof.         2     This provision does not
apply to the matters referred to in Article 6(5).             ARTICLE 9
Equal treatment of benefits, income, facts or events

  Unless otherwise provided for in this Convention, the States shall ensure
the application of the principle of equal treatment of benefits, income, facts
or events in the following manner:     a     where, under the legislation of
the competent State, the receipt of social security benefits and other income
has certain legal effects, the relevant provisions of that legislation shall
also apply to the receipt of equivalent benefits acquired under the
legislation of another State or to income acquired in another State;         b
where, under the legislation of the competent State, legal effects are
attributed to the occurrence of certain facts or events, that State shall take
account of like facts or events that have occurred in any other State as
though they had taken place in its own territory.             ARTICLE 10
Aggregation of periods

  Unless otherwise provided for in this Convention, the competent institution
of a State shall, to the extent necessary, take into account periods of
insurance, employment, self-employment or residence completed under the
legislation of any other State as though they were periods completed under the
legislation which it applies, where its legislation makes conditional upon the
completion of periods of insurance, employment, self-employment or residence:
a     the acquisition, retention, duration or recovery of the right to
benefits;         b     the coverage by legislation; or         c     the
access to or the exemption from compulsory, optional continued or voluntary
insurance.             ARTICLE 11       Waiving of residence rules

  The States shall ensure the application of the principle of exportability of
cash benefits in accordance with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b):     a     Cash
benefits payable under the legislation of a State or under this Convention
shall not be subject to any reduction, amendment, suspension, withdrawal or
confiscation on account of the fact that the beneficiary or the members of
their family reside in a State other than that in which the institution
responsible for providing benefits is situated.         b     Sub-paragraph
(a) does not apply to the cash benefits covered by Article 6(1)(c) and (h).
ARTICLE 12       Preventing of overlapping of benefits

  Unless otherwise provided, this Convention shall neither confer nor maintain
the right to several benefits of the same kind for one and the same period of
compulsory insurance.             TITLE II       DETERMINATION OF THE
LEGISLATION APPLICABLE                     ARTICLE 13       General rules
1     Persons to whom this Convention applies shall be subject to the
legislation of a single State only. Such legislation shall be determined in
accordance with this Title.         2     For the purposes of this Title,
persons receiving cash benefits because or as a consequence of their activity
as an employed or self-employed person shall be considered to be pursuing the
said activity. This shall not apply to invalidity, old-age, or survivors’
pensions or to pensions in respect of accidents at work or occupational
diseases or to sickness benefits in cash covering treatment for an unlimited
period.         3     Subject to Articles 14 to 18:     a     a person
pursuing an activity as an employed or self-employed person in a State shall
be subject to the legislation of that State;         b     a civil servant
shall be subject to the legislation of the State to which the administration
employing them is subject;         c     a person called up or recalled for
service in the armed forces or for civilian service in a State shall be
subject to the legislation of that State;         d     any other person to
whom sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) do not apply shall be subject to the
legislation of the State of residence, without prejudice to other provisions
of this Convention guaranteeing them benefits under the legislation of one or
more other States.             4     For the purposes of this Title, an
activity as an employed or self-employed person normally pursued on board a
vessel at sea flying the flag of a State shall be deemed to be an activity
pursued in the territory of said State. However, a person employed on board a
vessel flying the flag of a State and remunerated for such activity by an
undertaking or a person whose registered office or place of business is in the
territory of another State shall be subject to the legislation of the latter
State if that person resides in the territory of that State. The undertaking
or person paying the remuneration shall be considered as the employer for the
purposes of the said legislation.         5     An activity as a flight crew
or cabin crew member performing air passenger or freight services shall be
deemed to be an activity pursued in the territory of the State where the home
base is located.             ARTICLE 14       Detached workers
1     A person who pursues an activity as an employed person in the territory
of a State for an employer which normally carries out its activities there and
who is sent by that employer to the territory of another State to perform work
on that employer’s behalf shall continue to be subject to the legislation of
the first State, provided that:     a     the anticipated duration of such
work does not exceed 24 months; and         b     that person is not sent to
replace another detached worker.             2     A person who normally
pursues an activity as a self-employed person in the territory of a State who
goes to pursue a similar activity in the territory of another State shall
continue to be subject to the legislation of the first State, provided that
the anticipated duration of such activity does not exceed 24 months.         3
This Article shall not apply to any person to whom Article 16 applies.
ARTICLE 15       Pursuit of activities in two or more States                 1
A person who normally pursues an activity as an employed person in one or more
EEA EFTA States as well as in the United Kingdom shall be subject to:     a
the legislation of the State of residence if that person pursues a substantial
part of their activity in that State; or         b     if that person does not
pursue a substantial part of their activity in the State of residence:     i
the legislation of the State in which the registered office or place of
business of the undertaking or employer is situated if that person is employed
by one undertaking or employer; or         ii     the legislation of the State
in which the registered office or place of business of the undertakings or
employers is situated if that person is employed by two or more undertakings
or employers which have their registered office or place of business in only
one State; or         iii     the legislation of the State in which the
registered office or place of business of the undertaking or employer is
situated other than the State of residence if that person is employed by two
or more undertakings or employers, which have their registered office or place
of business in an EEA EFTA State and the United Kingdom, one of which is the
State of residence; or         iv     the legislation of the State of
residence if that person is employed by two or more undertakings or employers,
at least two of which have their registered office or place of business in
different States other than the State of residence.                 2     A
person who normally pursues an activity as a self-employed person in one or
more EEA EFTA States as well as in the United Kingdom shall be subject to:
a     the legislation of the State of residence if that person pursues a
substantial part of their activity in that State; or         b     the
legislation of the State in which the centre of interest of their activities
is situated, if that person does not reside in one of the States in which that
person pursues a substantial part of their activity.             3     A
person who normally pursues an activity as an employed person and an activity
as a self-employed person in two or more States shall be subject to the
legislation of the State in which that person pursues an activity as an
employed person or, if that person pursues such an activity in two or more
States, to the legislation determined in accordance with paragraph (1).
4     A person who is employed as a civil servant by a State and who pursues
an activity as an employed person or as a self-employed person in one or more
other States shall be subject to the legislation of the State to which the
administration employing that person is subject.         5     A person who
normally pursues an activity as an employed person in two or more EEA EFTA
States (and not in the United Kingdom) shall be subject to the legislation of
the United Kingdom if that person does not pursue a substantial part of that
activity in the State of residence and that person:     a     is employed by
one or more undertakings or employers, all of which have their registered
office or place of business in the United Kingdom;         b     resides in an
EEA EFTA State and is employed by two or more undertakings or employers, all
of which have their registered office or place of business in the United
Kingdom and the EEA EFTA State of residence;         c     resides in the
United Kingdom and is employed by two or more undertakings or employers, at
least two of which have their registered office or place of business in
different EEA EFTA States; or         d     resides in the United Kingdom and
is employed by one or more undertakings or employers, none of which have a
registered office or place of business in another State.             6     A
person who normally pursues an activity as a self-employed person in two or
more EEA EFTA States (and not in the United Kingdom), without pursuing a
substantial part of that activity in the State of residence, shall be subject
to the legislation of the United Kingdom if the centre of interest of their
activity is situated in the United Kingdom.         7     Paragraph (6) shall
not apply in the case of a person who normally pursues an activity as an
employed person and as a self-employed person in two or more EEA EFTA States.
8     Persons referred to in paragraphs (1) to (6) shall be treated, for the
purposes of the legislation determined in accordance with these provisions, as
though they were pursuing all their activities as employed or self-employed
persons and were receiving all their income in the State concerned.         9
This Article shall not apply to any person to whom Article 16 applies.
ARTICLE 16       Continental shelf area                 1     An employed
person who is resident in and subject to the legislation of either Norway or
the United Kingdom immediately before they are sent by their employer, who has
a registered office or place of business in either Norway or the United
Kingdom, to pursue an activity in the continental shelf area of the other
State, shall continue to be subject to the legislation of their State of
residence.         2     Paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of a person
who is sent from Norway to the United Kingdom to pursue an activity in the
continental shelf area, unless the person is on a Norwegian payroll as
determined by the legislation of Norway.         3     A self-employed person
who is resident in and subject to the legislation of either Norway or the
United Kingdom immediately before they pursue an activity in the continental
shelf area of the other State, shall continue to be subject to the legislation
of their State of residence.         4     A person travelling in the course
of their employment or self-employment, in connection with undertaking an
activity in the continental shelf area, between the territory of the United
Kingdom or Norway and either State’s continental shelf area in either
direction or travelling between different parts of the continental shelf area
of either State, shall be treated as if they were employed in the territory of
the State whose legislation applies in accordance with this Article.         5
This Article shall not apply to any person to whom Article 13(4) and (5)
applies.             ARTICLE 17       Voluntary insurance or optional
continued insurance                 1     Articles 13 to 16 do not apply to
voluntary insurance or to optional continued insurance unless, in respect of
one of the branches or benefits referred to in Article 6, only a voluntary
scheme of insurance exists in a State.         2     Where, by virtue of the
legislation of a State, the person concerned is subject to compulsory
insurance in that State, that person may not be subject to a voluntary
insurance scheme or an optional continued insurance scheme in another State.
In all other cases in which, for a given branch, there is a choice between
several voluntary insurance schemes or optional continued insurance schemes,
the person concerned shall join only the scheme of their choice.         3
However, in respect of invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits, the person
concerned may join the voluntary or optional continued insurance scheme of a
State, even if that person is compulsorily subject to the legislation of
another State, provided that that person has been subject, at some stage in
their career, to the legislation of the first State because or as a
consequence of an activity as an employed or self-employed person and if such
overlapping is explicitly or implicitly allowed under the legislation of the
first State.         4     Where the legislation of a State makes admission to
voluntary insurance or optional continued insurance conditional upon residence
in that State or upon previous activity as an employed or self-employed
person, Article 9(b) applies only to persons who have been subject, at some
earlier stage, to the legislation of that State on the basis of an activity as
an employed or self-employed person.             ARTICLE 18       Exceptions
to the general rules                 1     Two or more States, the competent
authorities of these States, or the bodies designated by these authorities,
may by common agreement provide for exceptions to Articles 13 to 17 in the
interest of certain persons or categories of persons.         2     A person
who receives a pension or pensions under the legislation of one or more States
and who resides in another State may at that person’s request be exempted from
application of the legislation of the latter State, provided that they are not
subject to that legislation on account of pursuing an activity as an employed
or self- employed person.             ARTICLE 19       Obligations of the
employer                 1     An employer who has its registered office or
place of business outside the competent State shall fulfil all the obligations
laid down by the legislation applicable to its employees, notably the
obligation to pay the contributions provided for by that legislation, as if it
had its registered office or place of business in the competent State.
2     An employer who does not have a place of business in the State whose
legislation is applicable and the employee may agree that the latter may
fulfil the employer’s obligations on its behalf as regards the payment of
contributions without prejudice to the employer’s underlying obligations. The
employer shall send notice of such an arrangement to the competent institution
of that State.             TITLE III       SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE
VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF BENEFITS                     CHAPTER 1       SICKNESS,
MATERNITY AND EQUIVALENT PATERNITY BENEFITS                     ARTICLE 20
Immigration applications

  This Convention applies without prejudice to the right of a State to charge
a health fee under national legislation in connection with an application for
a permit to enter, to stay, to work, or to reside in that State.
SECTION 1       INSURED PERSONS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILIES       EXCEPT
PENSIONERS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILIES                     ARTICLE 21
Residence in a State other than the competent State

  An insured person or members of their family who reside in a State other
than the competent State shall receive in the State of residence benefits in
kind provided, on behalf of the competent institution, by the institution of
the place of residence, in accordance with the legislation it applies, as
though the persons concerned were insured under the said legislation.
ARTICLE 22       Stay in the competent State when residence is in another
State – special rules for the members of the families of frontier workers
1     Unless otherwise provided for by paragraph (2), the insured person and
the members of their family referred to in Article 21 shall also be entitled
to benefits in kind while staying in the competent State. The benefits in kind
shall be provided by the competent institution and at its own expense, in
accordance with the legislation it applies, as though the persons concerned
resided in that State.         2     The members of the family of a frontier
worker shall be entitled to benefits in kind during their stay in the
competent State.

  Where the competent State is listed in Annex 3 however, the members of the
family of a frontier worker who reside in the same State as the frontier
worker shall be entitled to benefits in kind in the competent State only under
the conditions laid down in Article 23.             ARTICLE 23       Stay
outside the competent State             1     Unless otherwise provided for by
paragraph (2), an insured person and the members of their family staying in a
State other than the competent State shall be entitled to benefits in kind,
provided on behalf of the competent institution by the institution of the
place of stay in accordance with the legislation it applies, as though the
persons concerned were insured under that legislation, where:     a     the
benefits in kind become necessary on medical grounds during their stay, in the
opinion of the provider of the benefits in kind, taking into account the
nature of the benefits and the expected length of the stay;         b     the
person did not travel to that State with the purpose of receiving the benefits
in kind, unless:     i     the person is a passenger or member of the crew on
a vessel or aircraft travelling to that State and the benefits in kind became
necessary on medical grounds during the voyage or flight; or         ii
the person is employed or self-employed in the continental shelf area and the
benefits in kind became necessary on medical grounds while they were carrying
out their activity as an employed or self-employed person in the continental
shelf area; and             c     a valid entitlement document is presented in
accordance with Article 22(1) of Annex 1.             2     The Joint
Administrative Committee shall list benefits in kind which, in order to be
provided during a stay in another State, require for practical reasons a prior
agreement between the person concerned and the institution providing the care.
ARTICLE 24       Travel with the purpose of receiving benefits in kind –
authorisation to receive appropriate treatment outside the State of residence
1     Unless otherwise provided for in this Convention, an insured person
travelling to another State with the purpose of receiving benefits in kind
during the stay shall seek authorisation from the competent institution.
2     An insured person who is authorised by the competent institution to go
to another State with the purpose of receiving the treatment appropriate to
their condition shall receive the benefits in kind provided, on behalf of the
competent institution, by the institution of the place of stay, in accordance
with the legislation it applies, as though that person were insured under the
said legislation. The authorisation shall be accorded where the treatment in
question is among the benefits provided for by the legislation in the State
where the person concerned resides and where that person cannot be given such
treatment within a time limit which is medically justifiable, taking into
account their current state of health and the probable course of their
illness.         3     Paragraphs (1) and (2) apply  mutatis mutandis  to the
members of the family of an insured person.         4     If the members of
the family of an insured person reside in a State other than the State in
which the insured person resides, and this State has opted for reimbursement
on the basis of fixed amounts, the cost of the benefits in kind referred to in
paragraph (2) shall be borne by the institution of the place of residence of
the members of the family. In this case, for the purposes of paragraph (1),
the institution of the place of residence of the members of the family shall
be considered to be the competent institution.             ARTICLE 25
Cash benefits                 1     An insured person and members of their
family residing or staying in a State other than the competent State shall be
entitled to cash benefits provided by the competent institution in accordance
with the legislation it applies. By agreement between the competent
institution and the institution of the place of residence or stay, such
benefits may, however, be provided by the institution of the place of
residence or stay at the expense of the competent institution in accordance
with the legislation of the competent State.         2     The competent
institution of a State whose legislation stipulates that the calculation of
cash benefits shall be based on average income or on an average contribution
basis shall determine such average income or average contribution basis
exclusively by reference to the incomes confirmed as having been paid, or
contribution bases applied, during the periods completed under the said
legislation.         3     The competent institution of a State whose
legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on
standard income shall take into account exclusively the standard income or,
where appropriate, the average of standard incomes for the periods completed
under the said legislation.         4     Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply
mutatis mutandis  to cases where the legislation applied by the competent
institution lays down a specific reference period which corresponds in the
case in question either wholly or partly to the periods which the person
concerned has completed under the legislation of one or more other States.
ARTICLE 26       Pension claimants                 1     An insured person
who, on making a claim for a pension, or during the investigation thereof,
ceases to be entitled to benefits in kind under the legislation of the State
last competent, shall remain entitled to benefits in kind under the
legislation of the State in which that person resides, provided that the
pension claimant satisfies the insurance conditions of the legislation of the
State referred to in paragraph (2). The right to benefits in kind in the State
of residence also applies to the members of the family of the pension
claimant.         2     The benefits in kind shall be chargeable to the
institution of the State which, in the event of a pension being awarded, would
become competent under Articles 27 to 29.             SECTION 2       SPECIAL
PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONERS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILIES
ARTICLE 27       Right to benefits in kind under the legislation of the State
of residence

  A person who receives a pension or pensions under the legislation of two or
more States, of which one is the State of residence, and who is entitled to
benefits in kind under the legislation of that State, shall, with the members
of their family, receive such benefits in kind from and at the expense of the
institution of the place of residence, as though that person were a pensioner
whose pension was payable solely under the legislation of that State.
ARTICLE 28       No right to benefits in kind under the legislation of the
State of residence             1     A person who:     a     resides in a
State;         b     receives a pension or pensions under the legislation of
one or more States; and         c     is not entitled to benefits in kind
under the legislation of the State of residence,

  shall nevertheless receive such benefits for themselves and the members of
their family, insofar as the pensioner would be entitled to them under the
legislation of the State competent in respect of their pension or at least one
of the States competent, if that person resided in that State. The benefits in
kind shall be provided at the expense of the institution referred to in
paragraph (2) by the institution of the place of residence, as though the
person concerned were entitled to a pension and entitled to benefits in kind
under the legislation of that State.     2     In the cases covered by
paragraph (1), the cost of the benefits in kind shall be borne by the
institution as determined in accordance with the following rules:     a
where the pensioner is treated as if they were entitled to benefits in kind
under the legislation of one State, the cost of those benefits shall be borne
by the competent institution of that State;         b     where the pensioner
is treated as if they were entitled to benefits in kind under the legislation
of two or more States, the cost of those benefits shall be borne by the
competent institution of the State to whose legislation the person has been
subject for the longest period of time;         c     if the application of
the rule in sub-paragraph (b) would result in several institutions being
responsible for the cost of those benefits, the cost shall be borne by the
competent institution of the State to whose legislation the pensioner was last
subject.             ARTICLE 29       Pensions under the legislation of one or
more States other than the State of residence, where there is a right to
benefits in kind in the latter State

  Where a person receiving a pension or pensions under the legislation of one
or more States resides in a State under whose legislation the right to receive
benefits in kind is not subject to conditions of insurance, or conditions of
activity as an employed or self-employed person, and that person does not
receive a pension from the State of residence, the cost of benefits in kind
provided to them and to members of their family shall be borne by the
institution of one of the States competent in respect of the person’s pensions
determined in accordance with Article 28(2) to the extent that the person and
the members of their family would be entitled to such benefits if they resided
in that State.             ARTICLE 30       Residence of members of the family
in a State other than the one in which the pensioner resides

  Where a person:     a     receives a pension or pensions under the
legislation of one or more States; and         b     resides in a State other
than the one in which members of their family reside,

  those members of that person’s family shall be entitled to receive benefits
in kind from the institution of the place of their residence in accordance
with the legislation it applies insofar as the pensioner is entitled to
benefits in kind under the legislation of a State. The costs shall be borne by
the competent institution responsible for the costs of the benefits in kind
provided to the pensioner in their State of residence.             ARTICLE 31
Stay of the pensioner or the members of their family in a State other than the
State of residence – stay in the competent State – authorisation for
appropriate treatment outside the State of residence             1     Article
23 applies  mutatis mutandis  to:     a     a person receiving a pension or
pensions under the legislation of one or more States and who is entitled to
benefits in kind under the legislation of one of the States which provide
their pension(s);         b     the members of their family,

  who are staying in a State other than the one in which they reside.     2
Article 22(1) applies  mutatis mutandis  to the persons described in paragraph
(1) when they stay in the State in which is situated the competent institution
responsible for the cost of the benefits in kind provided to the pensioner in
their State of residence and that State has opted for this and is listed in
Annex 4.         3     Article 24 applies  mutatis mutandis  to a pensioner or
members of their family who are staying in a State other than the one in which
they reside with the purpose of receiving in that State the treatment
appropriate to their condition.         4     Unless otherwise provided for by
paragraph (5), the cost of the benefits in kind referred to in paragraphs (1)
to (3) shall be borne by the competent institution responsible for the cost of
benefits in kind provided to the pensioner in their State of residence.
5     The cost of the benefits in kind referred to in paragraph (3) shall be
borne by the institution of the place of residence of the pensioner or of the
members of their family, if these persons reside in a State which has opted
for reimbursement on the basis of fixed amounts. In these cases, for the
purposes of paragraph (3), the institution of the place of residence of the
pensioner or of the members of their family shall be considered to be the
competent institution.             ARTICLE 32       Cash benefits for
pensioners                 1     Cash benefits shall be paid to a person
receiving a pension or pensions under the legislation of one or more States by
the competent institution of the State in which is situated the competent
institution responsible for the cost of benefits in kind provided to the
pensioner in their State of residence. Article 25 applies  mutatis mutandis .
2     Paragraph (1) also applies to the members of a pensioner’s family.
ARTICLE 33       Contributions by pensioners                 1     The
institution of a State which is responsible under the legislation it applies
for making deductions in respect of contributions for sickness, maternity and
equivalent paternity benefits, may request and recover such deductions,
calculated in accordance with the legislation it applies, only to the extent
that the cost of the benefits pursuant to Articles 27 to 30 is to be borne by
an institution of that State.         2     Where, in the cases referred to in
Article 29, the acquisition of sickness, maternity and equivalent paternity
benefits is subject to the payment of contributions or similar payments under
the legislation of a State in which the pensioner concerned resides, these
contributions shall not be payable by virtue of such residence.
SECTION 3       COMMON PROVISIONS                     ARTICLE 34       General
Provisions

  Articles 27 to 33 do not apply to a pensioner or the members of the
pensioner’s family who are entitled to benefits under the legislation of a
State on the basis of an activity as an employed or self-employed person. In
such cases, the person concerned shall be subject, for the purposes of this
Chapter, to Articles 21 to 25.             ARTICLE 35       Prioritising of
the right to benefits in kind – special rule for the right of members of the
family to benefits in the State of residence             1     Unless
otherwise provided for by paragraphs (2) and (3), where a member of the family
has an independent right to benefits in kind based on the legislation of a
State or on this Chapter such right shall take priority over a derivative
right to benefits in kind for members of the family.         2     Unless
otherwise provided for by paragraph (3), where the independent right in the
State of residence exists directly and solely on the basis of the residence of
the person concerned in that State, a derivative right to benefits in kind
shall take priority over the independent right.         3     Notwithstanding
paragraphs (1) and (2), benefits in kind shall be provided to the members of
the family of an insured person at the expense of the competent institution in
the State in which they reside, where:     a     those members of the family
reside in a State under whose legislation the right to benefits in kind is not
subject to conditions of insurance or activity as an employed or self-employed
person; and         b     the spouse or the person caring for the children of
the insured person pursues an activity as an employed or self-employed person
in that State, or receives a pension from that State on the basis of an
activity as an employed or self-employed person.             ARTICLE 36
Reimbursement between institutions                     1     The benefits in
kind provided by the institution of a State on behalf of the institution of
another State under this Chapter shall give rise to full reimbursement.
2     The reimbursements referred to in paragraph (1) shall be determined and
effected in accordance with the arrangements set out in Appendix 2 of Annex 1,
either on production of proof of actual expenditure, or on the basis of fixed
amounts for States whose legal or administrative structures are such that the
use of reimbursement on the basis of actual expenditure is not appropriate.
3     The States, and their competent authorities, may provide for other
methods of reimbursement or waive all reimbursement between the institutions
coming under their jurisdiction.             CHAPTER 2       BENEFITS IN
RESPECT OF ACCIDENTS AT WORK AND OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES
ARTICLE 37       Rights to benefits in kind and in cash                 1
Without prejudice to any more favourable provisions in paragraphs (2) and (3)
of this Article, Articles 21, 22(1), 23(1) and 24(1) also apply to benefits
relating to accidents at work or occupational diseases.         2     A person
who has sustained an accident at work or has contracted an occupational
disease and who resides or stays in a State other than the competent State
shall be entitled to the special benefits in kind of the scheme covering
accidents at work and occupational diseases provided, on behalf of the
competent institution, by the institution of the place of residence or stay in
accordance with the legislation which it applies, as though that person were
insured under that legislation.         3     The competent institution may
not refuse to grant the authorisation provided for in Article 24(1) to a
person who has sustained an accident at work or who has contracted an
occupational disease and is entitled to benefits chargeable to that
institution, where the treatment appropriate to their condition cannot be
given in the State in which that person resides within a time limit which is
medically justifiable, taking into account that person’s current state of
health and the probable course of the illness.         4     Article 25 also
applies to benefits falling within this Chapter.             ARTICLE 38
Costs of transport                 1     The competent institution of a State
whose legislation provides for meeting the costs of transporting a person who
has sustained an accident at work or is suffering from an occupational
disease, either to their place of residence or to a hospital, shall meet such
costs to the corresponding place in the State where the person resides,
provided that that institution gives prior authorisation for such transport,
duly taking into account the reasons justifying it. Such authorisation shall
not be required in the case of a frontier worker.         2     The competent
institution of a State whose legislation provides for meeting the costs of
transporting the body of a person killed in an accident at work to the place
of burial shall, in accordance with the legislation it applies, meet such
costs to the corresponding place in the State where the person was residing at
the time of the accident.             ARTICLE 39       Benefits for an
occupational disease where the person suffering from such a disease has been
exposed to the same risk in several States

  When a person who has contracted an occupational disease has, under the
legislation of two or more States, pursued an activity which by its nature is
likely to cause the said disease, the benefits that that person or their
survivors may claim shall be provided exclusively under the legislation of the
last of those States whose conditions are satisfied.             ARTICLE 40
Aggravation of an occupational disease

  In the event of aggravation of an occupational disease for which a person
suffering from such a disease has received or is receiving benefits under the
legislation of a State, the following rules apply:     a     if the person
concerned, while in receipt of benefits, has not pursued, under the
legislation of another State, an activity as an employed or self-employed
person likely to cause or aggravate the disease in question, the competent
institution of the first State shall bear the cost of the benefits under the
provisions of the legislation which it applies, taking into account the
aggravation;         b     if the person concerned, while in receipt of
benefits, has pursued such an activity under the legislation of another State,
the competent institution of the first State shall bear the cost of the
benefits under the legislation it applies without taking the aggravation into
account. The competent institution of the second State shall grant a
supplement to the person concerned, the amount of which shall be equal to the
difference between the amount of benefits due after the aggravation and the
amount which would have been due prior to the aggravation under the
legislation it applies, if the disease in question had occurred under the
legislation of that State;         c     the rules concerning reduction,
suspension or withdrawal laid down by the legislation of a State shall not be
invoked against persons receiving benefits provided by institutions of two
States in accordance with sub-paragraph (b).             ARTICLE 41
Rules for taking into account the special features of certain legislation
1     If there is no insurance against accidents at work or occupational
diseases in the State in which the person concerned resides or stays, or if
such insurance exists but there is no institution responsible for providing
benefits in kind, those benefits shall be provided by the institution of the
place of residence or stay responsible for providing benefits in kind in the
event of sickness.         2     If there is no insurance against accidents at
work or occupational diseases in the competent State, the provisions of this
Chapter concerning benefits in kind shall nevertheless be applied to a person
who is entitled to those benefits in the event of sickness, maternity or
equivalent paternity under the legislation of that State if that person
sustains an accident at work or suffers from an occupational disease during a
residence or stay in another State. Costs shall be borne by the institution
that is competent for the benefits in kind under the legislation of the
competent State.         3     Article 9 applies to the competent institution
in a State as regards the equivalence of accidents at work and occupational
diseases which either have occurred or have been confirmed subsequently under
the legislation of another State when assessing the degree of incapacity, the
right to benefits or the amount thereof, on condition that:     a     no
compensation is due in respect of an accident at work or an occupational
disease which had occurred or had been confirmed previously under the
legislation it applies; and         b     no compensation is due in respect of
an accident at work or an occupational disease which had occurred or had been
confirmed subsequently, under the legislation of the other State under which
the accident at work or the occupational disease had occurred or been
confirmed.             ARTICLE 42       Reimbursements between institutions
1     Article 36 also applies to benefits falling within this Chapter, and
reimbursement shall be made on the basis of actual costs.         2     The
States, or their competent authorities, may provide for other methods of
reimbursement or waive all reimbursement between the institutions under their
jurisdiction.             CHAPTER 3       DEATH GRANTS
ARTICLE 43       Right to grants where death occurs in, or where the person
entitled resides in, a State other than the competent one                 1
When an insured person or a member of their family dies in a State other than
the competent State, the death shall be deemed to have occurred in the
competent State.         2     The competent institution shall be obliged to
provide death grants payable under the legislation it applies, even if the
person entitled resides in a State other than the competent State.         3
Paragraphs (1) and (2) also apply when the death is the result of an accident
at work or an occupational disease.             ARTICLE 44       Provision of
benefits in the event of the death of a pensioner                 1     In the
event of the death of a pensioner who was entitled to a pension under the
legislation of one State, or to pensions under the legislations of two or more
States, when that pensioner was residing in a State other than that of the
institution responsible for the cost of benefits in kind provided under
Articles 28 and 29, the death grants payable under the legislation
administered by that institution shall be provided at its own expense as
though the pensioner had been residing at the time of their death in the State
in which that institution is situated.         2     Paragraph (1) applies
mutatis mutandis  to the members of the family of a pensioner.
CHAPTER 4       INVALIDITY BENEFITS                     ARTICLE 45
Calculation of invalidity benefits

  Without prejudice to Article 10 where, under the legislation of the State
competent under Title II of this Convention, the amount of invalidity benefits
is dependent on the duration of the periods of insurance, employment, self-
employment or residence, the competent State is not required to take into
account any such periods completed under the legislation of another State for
the purposes of calculating the amount of invalidity benefit payable.
ARTICLE 46       Special provisions on aggregation of periods

  The competent institution of a State whose legislation makes the
acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits conditional upon
the completion of periods of insurance or residence shall, where necessary,
apply Article 50  mutatis mutandis .             ARTICLE 47       Aggravation
of invalidity

  In the case of aggravation of an invalidity for which a person is receiving
benefits under the legislation of a State in accordance with this Convention,
the benefit shall continue to be provided in accordance with this Chapter,
taking the aggravation into account.             ARTICLE 48       Conversion
of invalidity benefits into old-age benefits             1     Where provided
for in the legislation of the State paying invalidity benefit in accordance
with this Convention, invalidity benefits shall be converted into old-age
benefits under the conditions laid down by the legislation under which they
are provided and in accordance with Chapter 5 of Title III.         2
Where a person receiving invalidity benefits can establish a claim to old-age
benefits under the legislation of one or more other States, in accordance with
Article 49, any institution which is responsible for providing invalidity
benefits under the legislation of a State shall continue to provide such a
person with the invalidity benefits to which that person is entitled under the
legislation it applies until paragraph (1) becomes applicable in respect of
that institution, or otherwise for as long as the person concerned satisfies
the conditions for such benefits.             CHAPTER 5       OLD-AGE AND
SURVIVORS’ PENSIONS                     ARTICLE 49       General Provisions
1     All the competent institutions shall determine entitlement to benefit,
under all the legislations of the States to which the person concerned has
been subject, when a request for award has been submitted, unless the person
concerned expressly requests deferment of the award of old-age benefits under
the legislation of one or more States.         2     If at a given moment the
person concerned does not satisfy, or no longer satisfies, the conditions laid
down by all the legislations of the States to which that person has been
subject, the institutions applying legislation the conditions of which have
been satisfied shall not take into account, when performing the calculation in
accordance with Article 51(1)(a) or (b), the periods completed under the
legislations the conditions of which have not been satisfied, or are no longer
satisfied, where this gives rise to a lower amount of benefit.         3
Paragraph (2) applies  mutatis mutandis  when the person concerned has
expressly requested deferment of the award of old-age benefits.         4
A new calculation shall be performed automatically as and when the conditions
to be fulfilled under the other legislations are satisfied or when a person
requests the award of an old-age benefit deferred in accordance with paragraph
(1), unless the periods completed under the other legislations have already
been taken into account by virtue of paragraphs (2) or (3).
ARTICLE 50       Special provisions on aggregation of periods
1     Where the legislation of a State makes the granting of certain benefits
conditional upon the periods of insurance having been completed only in a
specific activity as an employed or self-employed person or in an occupation
which is subject to a special scheme for employed or self-employed persons,
the competent institution of that State shall take into account periods
completed under the legislation of other States only if completed under a
corresponding scheme or, failing that, in the same occupation, or where
appropriate, in the same activity as an employed or self-employed person.
2     If, account having been taken of the periods thus completed, the person
concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of the benefits of a
special scheme, these periods shall be taken into account for the purposes of
providing the benefits of the general scheme or, failing that, of the scheme
applicable to manual or clerical workers, as the case may be, provided that
the person concerned had been affiliated to one or other of those schemes.
3     The periods of insurance completed under a special scheme of a State
shall be taken into account for the purposes of providing the benefits of the
general scheme or, failing that, of the scheme applicable to manual or
clerical workers, as the case may be, of another State, provided that the
person concerned had been affiliated to one or other of those schemes, even if
those periods have already been taken into account in the latter State under a
special scheme.         4     Where the legislation or specific scheme of a
State makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits
conditional upon the person concerned being insured at the time of the
materialisation of the risk, this condition shall be regarded as having been
satisfied if that person has been previously insured under the legislation or
specific scheme of that State and is, at the time of the materialisation of
the risk, insured under the legislation of another State for the same risk or,
failing that, if a benefit is due under the legislation of another State for
the same risk. The latter condition shall, however, be deemed to be fulfilled
in the cases referred to in Article 56.             ARTICLE 51       Award of
benefits                 1     The competent institution shall calculate the
amount of the benefit that would be due:     a     under the legislation it
applies, only where the conditions for entitlement to benefits have been
satisfied exclusively under national law (independent benefit);         b
by calculating a theoretical amount and subsequently an actual amount ( pro
rata  benefit), as follows:     i     the theoretical amount of the benefit is
equal to the benefit which the person concerned could claim if all the periods
of insurance and/or of residence which have been completed under the
legislations of the other States had been completed under the legislation it
applies on the date of the award of the benefit. If, under this legislation,
the amount does not depend on the duration of the periods completed, that
amount shall be regarded as being the theoretical amount;         ii     the
competent institution shall then establish the actual amount of the  pro rata
benefit by applying to the theoretical amount the ratio between the duration
of the periods completed before materialisation of the risk under the
legislation it applies and the total duration of the periods completed before
materialisation of the risk under the legislations of all the States
concerned.                 2     Where appropriate, the competent institution
shall apply, to the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraphs (a)
and (b) of paragraph (1), all the rules relating to reduction, suspension or
withdrawal, under the legislation it applies, within the limits provided for
by Articles 52 to 54.         3     The person concerned shall be entitled to
receive from the competent institution of each State the higher of the amounts
calculated in accordance with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1).
4     Where the calculation pursuant to paragraph (1)(a) in one State
invariably results in the independent benefit being equal to or higher than
the  pro rata  benefit, calculated in accordance with paragraph (1)(b), the
competent institution shall waive the  pro rata  calculation, provided that:
a     such a situation is set out in Part 1 of Annex 5;         b     no
legislation containing rules against overlapping, as referred to in Articles
53 to 54, is applicable unless the conditions laid down in Article 54(2) are
fulfilled; and         c     Article 56 is not applicable in relation to
periods completed under the legislation of another State in the specific
circumstances of the case.             5     Notwithstanding paragraphs (1),
(2) and (3), the  pro rata  calculation shall not apply to schemes providing
benefits in respect of which periods of time are of no relevance to the
calculation, subject to such schemes being listed in Part 2 of Annex 5. In
such cases, the person concerned shall be entitled to the benefit calculated
in accordance with the legislation of the State concerned.             ARTICLE
52       Rules to prevent overlapping                 1     Any overlapping of
old-age and survivors’ benefits calculated or provided on the basis of periods
of insurance or residence completed by the same person shall be considered to
be overlapping of benefits of the same kind.         2     Overlapping of
benefits which cannot be considered to be of the same kind within the meaning
of paragraph (1) shall be considered to be overlapping of benefits of a
different kind.         3     The following provisions shall be applicable for
the purposes of rules to prevent overlapping laid down by the legislation of a
State in the case of overlapping of a benefit in respect of old-age or
survivors with a benefit of the same kind or a benefit of a different kind or
with other income:     a     the competent institution shall take into account
the benefits or incomes acquired in another State only where the legislation
it applies provides for benefits or income acquired abroad to be taken into
account;         b     the competent institution shall take into account the
amount of benefits to be paid by another State before deduction of tax, social
security contributions and other individual levies or deductions, unless the
legislation it applies provides for the application of rules to prevent
overlapping after such deductions, under the conditions and the procedures
laid down in Annex 1;         c     the competent institution shall not take
into account the amount of benefits acquired under the legislation of another
State on the basis of voluntary insurance or continued optional insurance;
d     if a single State applies rules to prevent overlapping because the
person concerned receives benefits of the same or of a different kind under
the legislation of other States or income acquired in other States, the
benefit due may be reduced solely by the amount of such benefits or such
income.             ARTICLE 53       Overlapping of benefits of the same kind
1     Where benefits of the same kind due under the legislation of two or more
States overlap, the rules to prevent overlapping laid down by the legislation
of a State shall not be applicable to a  pro rata  benefit.         2     The
rules to prevent overlapping apply to an independent benefit only if the
benefit concerned is:     a     a benefit the amount of which does not depend
on the duration of periods of insurance or residence; or         b     a
benefit the amount of which is determined on the basis of a credited period
deemed to have been completed between the date on which the risk materialised
and a later date, overlapping with:     i     a benefit of the same type,
except where an agreement has been concluded between two or more States to
avoid the same credited period being taken into account more than once; or
ii     a benefit referred to in sub-paragraph (a).

  The benefits and agreements referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) are
listed in Annex 6.             ARTICLE 54       Overlapping of benefits of a
different kind             1     If the receipt of benefits of a different
kind or other income requires the application of the rules to prevent
overlapping provided for by the legislation of the States concerned regarding:
a     two or more independent benefits, the competent institutions shall
divide the amounts of the benefit or benefits or other income, as they have
been taken into account, by the number of benefits subject to the said rules;
however, the application of this sub-paragraph cannot deprive the person
concerned of their status as a pensioner for the purposes of the other
chapters of this Title under the conditions and the procedures laid down in
Annex 1;         b     one or more  pro rata  benefits, the competent
institutions shall take into account the benefit or benefits or other income
and all the elements stipulated for applying the rules to prevent overlapping
as a function of the ratio between the periods of insurance and/or residence
established for the calculation referred to in Article 51(1)(b)(ii);         c
one or more independent benefits and one or more  pro rata  benefits, the
competent institutions shall apply  mutatis mutandis  sub-paragraph (a) as
regards independent benefits and sub-paragraph (b) as regards  pro rata
benefits.             2     The competent institution shall not apply the
division stipulated in respect of independent benefits, if the legislation it
applies provides for account to be taken of benefits of a different kind or
other income and all other elements for calculating part of their amount
determined as a function of the ratio between periods of insurance and/or
residence referred to in Article 51(1)(b)(ii).         3     Paragraphs (1)
and (2) apply  mutatis mutandis  where the legislation of one or more States
provides that a right to a benefit cannot be acquired in the case where the
person concerned is in receipt of a benefit of a different kind, payable under
the legislation of another State, or of other income.             ARTICLE 55
Additional provisions for the calculation of benefits                 1
For the calculation of the theoretical and  pro rata  amounts referred to in
Article 51(1)(b), the following rules apply:     a     where the total length
of the periods of insurance and/or residence completed before the risk
materialised under the legislations of all the States concerned is longer than
the maximum period required by the legislation of one of these States for
receipt of full benefit, the competent institution of that State shall take
into account this maximum period instead of the total length of the periods
completed; this method of calculation shall not result in the imposition on
that institution of the cost of a benefit greater than the full benefit
provided for by the legislation it applies. This provision shall not apply to
benefits the amount of which does not depend on the length of insurance;
b     the procedure for taking into account overlapping periods is laid down
in Annex 1;         c     if the legislation of a State provides that the
benefits are to be calculated on the basis of incomes, contributions, bases of
contributions, increases, earnings, other amounts or a combination of more
than one of them (average, proportional, fixed or credited), the competent
institution shall:     i     determine the basis for calculation of the
benefits in accordance only with periods of insurance completed under the
legislation it applies;         ii     use, in order to determine the amount
to be calculated in accordance with the periods of insurance and/or residence
completed under the legislation of the other States, the same elements
determined or recorded for the periods of insurance completed under the
legislation it applies;

  where necessary in accordance with the procedures laid down in Annex 7 for
the State concerned;     d     in the event that sub-paragraph (c) is not
applicable because the legislation of a State provides for the benefit to be
calculated on the basis of elements other than periods of insurance or
residence which are not linked to time, the competent institution shall take
into account, in respect of each period of insurance or residence completed
under the legislation of any other State, the amount of the capital accrued,
the capital which is considered as having been accrued or any other element
for the calculation under the legislation it administers divided by the
corresponding units of periods in the pension scheme concerned.         2
The provisions of the legislation of a State concerning the revalorisation of
the elements taken into account for the calculation of benefits apply, as
appropriate, to the elements to be taken into account by the competent
institution of that State, in accordance with paragraph (1), in respect of the
periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of other
States.             ARTICLE 56       Periods of insurance or residence of less
than one year                 1     Notwithstanding Article 51(1)(b), the
institution of a State shall not be required to provide benefits in respect of
periods completed under the legislation it applies which are taken into
account when the risk materialises, if:     a     the duration of the said
periods is less than one year; and         b     taking only these periods
into account no right to benefit is acquired under that legislation.

  For the purposes of this Article, “ periods ” shall mean all periods of
insurance, employment, self-employment or residence which either qualify for,
or directly increase, the benefit concerned.     2     The competent
institution of each of the States concerned shall take into account the
periods referred to in paragraph (1), for the purposes of Article 51(1)(b)(i).
3     If the effect of applying paragraph (1) would be to relieve all the
institutions of the States concerned of their obligations, benefits shall be
provided exclusively under the legislation of the last of those States whose
conditions are satisfied, as if all the periods of insurance and residence
completed and taken into account in accordance with Article 10 and Article
50(1) to (3) had been completed under the legislation of that State.         4
This Article does not apply to schemes listed in Part 2 of Annex 5.
ARTICLE 57       Recalculation and revaluation of benefits                 1
If the method for determining benefits or the rules for calculating benefits
are altered under the legislation of a State, or if the personal situation of
the person concerned undergoes a relevant change which, under that
legislation, would lead to an adjustment of the amount of the benefit, a
recalculation shall be carried out in accordance with Article 51.         2
On the other hand, if, by reason of an increase in the cost of living or
changes in the level of income or other grounds for adjustment, the benefits
of the State concerned are altered by a percentage or fixed amount, such
percentage or fixed amount shall be applied directly to the benefits
determined in accordance with Article 51, without the need for a
recalculation.             CHAPTER 6       UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
ARTICLE 58       Special provisions on aggregation of periods of insurance,
employment or self-employment                 1     The competent institution
of a State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention, recovery or
duration of the right to benefits conditional upon the completion of either
periods of insurance, employment or self-employment shall, to the extent
necessary, take into account periods of insurance, employment or self-
employment completed under the legislation of any other State as though they
were completed under the legislation it applies.

  However, when the applicable legislation makes the right to benefits
conditional on the completion of periods of insurance, the periods of
employment or self-employment completed under the legislation of another State
shall not be taken into account unless such periods would have been considered
to be periods of insurance had they been completed in accordance with the
applicable legislation.     2     The application of paragraph (1) of this
Article shall be conditional on the person concerned having the most recently
completed, in accordance with the legislation under which the benefits are
claimed:     a     periods of insurance, if that legislation requires periods
of insurance;         b     periods of employment, if that legislation
requires periods of employment; or         c     periods of self-employment,
if that legislation requires periods of self-employment.             ARTICLE
59       Calculation of unemployment benefits                     1     Where
the calculation of unemployment benefits is based on the amount of the
previous salary or professional income of the person concerned, the competent
State shall take into account the salary or professional income received by
the person concerned based exclusively on their last activity as an employed
or self-employed person under the legislation of the competent State.
2     Where the legislation applied by the competent State provides for a
specific reference period for the determination of the salary or professional
income used to calculate the amount of benefit, and the person concerned was
subject to the legislation of another State for all or part of that reference
period, the competent State shall only take into account the salary or
professional income received during their last activity as an employed or
self-employed person under that legislation.             TITLE IV
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS                     ARTICLE 60       Cooperation
1     The competent authorities of the States shall notify the Joint
Administrative Committee of any changes to their legislation as regards the
branches of social security covered by Article 6 which are relevant to or may
affect the implementation of this Convention.         2     The competent
authorities of the States shall communicate to each other measures taken to
implement this Convention that are not notified under paragraph (1) and that
are relevant for the implementation of the Convention.         3     For the
purposes of this Convention, the competent authorities and institutions of the
States shall lend one another their good offices and act as though
implementing their own legislation. The administrative assistance given by the
said competent authorities and institutions shall, as a rule, be free of
charge. However, the Joint Administrative Committee shall establish the nature
of reimbursable expenses and the limits above which their reimbursement is
due.         4     The competent authorities and institutions of the States
may, for the purposes of this Convention, communicate directly with one
another and with the persons involved or their representatives.         5
The competent authorities, institutions and persons covered by this Convention
shall have a duty of mutual information and cooperation to ensure the correct
implementation of this Convention.         6     The competent authorities and
institutions, in accordance with the principle of good administration, shall
respond to all queries within a reasonable period of time and shall in this
connection provide the persons concerned with any information required for
exercising the rights conferred on them by this Convention.         7     The
persons concerned must inform the institutions of the competent State and of
the State of residence as soon as possible of any change in their personal or
family situation which affects their right to benefits under this Convention.
8     Failure to respect the requirement referred to in paragraph (7) may
result in the application of proportionate measures in accordance with
national law. Nevertheless, these measures shall be equivalent to those
applicable to similar situations under domestic law and shall not make it
impossible or excessively difficult in practice for claimants to exercise the
rights conferred on them by this Convention.         9     The competent
authorities, institutions and tribunals of one State may not reject
applications or other documents submitted to them on the grounds that they are
written in an official language of another State.             ARTICLE 61
Protection of personal data                 1     Any personal data received
under this Convention shall be protected as such in accordance with the
receiving State’s domestic law.         2     Any personal data received under
this Convention shall be used solely for the purposes of this Convention and
in accordance with the domestic law of the receiving State.         3
Where one of the States wishes to use or disclose such personal data for other
purposes, it shall obtain, in conformity with the domestic law of the State
which provided the personal data, the prior written consent of the competent
authorities or competent institutions. Such use shall be subject to any
restrictions laid down by that authority or institution.         4     Where
this Convention provides for the transfer of personal data, such transfer
shall take place in accordance with the transferring State’s rules on
international transfers of personal data. Where needed, each State will make
best efforts, while respecting the transferring State’s rules on international
transfers of personal data, to establish safeguards necessary for the transfer
of personal data.             ARTICLE 62       Confidentiality
1     Any information communicated pursuant to this Convention shall be
covered by an obligation of professional secrecy and shall enjoy the
protections available to similar information subject to those obligations
under the domestic law of the receiving State, unless the State which provided
the information gives, in conformity with its domestic law, its consent to the
disclosure of such information.         2     Any information subject to an
obligation of professional secrecy that is received under this Convention
shall be used solely for the purposes of this Convention and in accordance
with the domestic law of the receiving State.         3     Where one of the
States wishes to use or disclose such information for other purposes, it shall
obtain, in conformity with the domestic law of the State which provided the
information, the prior written consent of the competent authorities or
competent institutions. Such use shall be subject to any restrictions laid
down by that authority or institution.             ARTICLE 63       Data
processing                 1     The States shall progressively use new
technologies for the exchange, access and processing of the data required to
apply this Convention.         2     Each State shall be responsible for
managing its own part of any electronic exchange.         3     An electronic
document sent or issued by a competent authority or institution in conformity
with this Convention may not be rejected by a competent authority or
institution of another State on the grounds that it was received by electronic
means, once the receiving institution has declared that it can receive
electronic documents. Reproduction and recording of such documents shall be
presumed to be a correct and accurate reproduction of the original document or
representation of the information it relates to, unless there is proof to the
contrary.         4     An electronic document shall be considered valid if
the computer system on which the document is recorded contains the safeguards
necessary in order to prevent any alteration, disclosure, or unauthorised
access to the recording. It shall at any time be possible to reproduce the
recorded information in an immediately readable form.             ARTICLE 64
Exemptions                 1     Any exemption from or reduction of taxes,
stamp duty, notarial or registration fees provided for under the legislation
of one State in respect of certificates or documents required to be produced
in application of the legislation of that State shall be extended to similar
certificates or documents required to be produced in application of the
legislation of another State or of this Convention.         2     All
statements, documents and certificates of any kind whatsoever required to be
produced in application of this Convention shall be exempt from authentication
by diplomatic or consular authorities.             ARTICLE 65       Claims,
declarations or appeals

  Any claim, declaration or appeal which should have been submitted, in
application of the legislation of one State, within a specified period to an
authority, institution or tribunal of that State shall be admissible if it is
submitted within the same period to a corresponding authority, institution or
tribunal of another State. In such a case, the authority, institution or
tribunal receiving the claim, declaration or appeal shall forward it without
delay to the competent authority, institution or tribunal of the former State
either directly or through the competent authorities of the States concerned.
The date on which such claims, declarations or appeals were submitted to the
authority, institution or tribunal of the second State shall be considered as
the date of their submission to the competent authority, institution or
tribunal.             ARTICLE 66       Medical examinations             1
Medical examinations provided for by the legislation of one State may be
carried out, at the request of the competent institution, in the territory of
another State, by the institution of the place of stay or residence of the
person entitled to benefits, under the conditions laid down in Annex 1 or
agreed between the competent authorities of the States concerned.         2
Medical examinations carried out under the conditions laid down in paragraph
(1) shall be considered as having been carried out in the territory of the
competent State.             ARTICLE 67       Collection of contributions and
recovery of benefits                 1     Collection of contributions due to
an institution of one State and recovery of benefits provided by the
institution of one State but not due, may be effected in another State in
accordance with the procedures and with the guarantees and privileges
applicable to the collection of contributions due to the corresponding
institution of the latter and the recovery of benefits provided by it but not
due.         2     Enforceable decisions of the judicial and administrative
authorities relating to the collection of contributions, interest, and any
other charges or to the recovery of benefits provided but not due under the
legislation of one State shall be recognised and enforced at the request of
the competent institution in another State within the limits and in accordance
with the procedures laid down by the legislation and any other procedures
applicable to similar decisions of the latter. Such decisions shall be
declared enforceable in that State insofar as the legislation and any other
procedures of that State so require.         3     Claims of an institution of
one State shall in enforcement, bankruptcy or settlement proceedings in
another State enjoy the same privileges as the legislation that the latter
accords to claims of the same kind.         4     The procedure for
implementing this Article, including costs reimbursement, shall be governed by
Annex 1 or, where necessary and as a complementary measure, by means of
agreements between the States.             ARTICLE 68       Rights of
institutions                 1     If a person receives benefits under the
legislation of a State in respect of an injury resulting from events occurring
in another State, any rights of the institution responsible for providing
benefits against a third party liable to provide compensation for the injury
shall be governed by the following rules:     a     where the institution
responsible for providing benefits is, under the legislation it applies,
subrogated to the rights which the beneficiary has against the third party,
such subrogation shall be recognised by each State;         b     where the
institution responsible for providing benefits has a direct right against the
third party, each State shall recognise such rights.             2     If a
person receives benefits under the legislation of one State in respect of an
injury resulting from events occurring in another State, the provisions of the
said legislation which determine the cases in which the civil liability of
employers or of their employees is to be excluded apply with regard to the
said person or to the competent institution.

  Paragraph (1) shall also apply to any rights of the institution responsible
for providing benefits against employers or their employees in cases where
their liability is not excluded.     3     Where, in accordance with Article
36(3) or Article 42(2), two or more States or their competent authorities have
concluded an agreement to waive reimbursement between institutions under their
jurisdiction, or, where reimbursement does not depend on the amount of
benefits actually provided, any rights arising against a liable third party
shall be governed by the following rules:     a     where the institution of
the State of residence or stay grants benefits to a person in respect of an
injury sustained in its territory, that institution, in accordance with the
provisions of the legislation it applies, shall exercise the right to
subrogation or direct action against the third party liable to provide
compensation for the injury;         b     for the application of sub-
paragraph (a):     i     the person receiving benefits shall be deemed to be
insured with the institution of the place of residence or stay, and         ii
that institution shall be deemed to be the institution responsible for
providing benefits;             c     paragraphs (1) and (2) shall remain
applicable in respect of any benefits not covered by the waiver agreement or a
reimbursement which does not depend on the amount of benefits actually
provided.             ARTICLE 69       Implementation of legislation

  Special provisions for implementing the legislation of a certain State are
referred to in Annex 7 to the Convention.             ARTICLE 70
Establishment and role of the Joint Administrative Committee             1
The competent authorities of the States shall establish a committee to be
called the Joint Administrative Committee. The Joint Administrative Committee
shall comprise representatives of each of the States.         2     The Joint
Administrative Committee shall be co-chaired by the representatives of the
competent authorities of:     a     the United Kingdom; and         b     one
of the EEA EFTA States, on a rotating basis.             3     The Joint
Administrative Committee may:     a     monitor and review the interpretation,
implementation and application of this Convention and make recommendations in
respect thereof;         b     agree administrative arrangements necessary for
the application of this Convention;         c     provide a forum for the
States to exchange information, and discuss best practices and technical
issues;         d     prepare and maintain an updated list of cash benefits
which the competent authorities confirm fall within scope of this Convention
as set out in Article 6(2).         e     provide a forum to resolve disputes
in accordance with Article 71(3) and (4);         f     adopt decisions in
respect of all matters where this Convention so provides; and         g
set rules of procedure for the Joint Administrative Committee.             4
The Joint Administrative Committee may, when carrying out its functions,
consider guidance issued in relation to other international social security
agreements by which any of the States are bound.         5     The Joint
Administrative Committee shall act by consensus.         6     The Joint
Administrative Committee shall meet at the request of any State, and, in any
event, at least once a year, unless the Joint Administrative Committee decides
otherwise. The Joint Administrative Committee’s meeting schedule and agenda
shall be set by consensus of the States.             ARTICLE 71       Dispute
resolution                 1     For the purposes of this Article “ Concerned
State ” means one or more State or States to this Convention whose interests
are directly affected by a dispute concerning this Convention.         2
Concerned States shall make all reasonable efforts to resolve between them all
disputes concerning this Convention.         3     If a dispute cannot be
resolved in accordance with paragraph (2) it shall be submitted by a Concerned
State for discussion at the Joint Administrative Committee.         4     The
Joint Administrative Committee shall provide a forum for States to seek to
resolve disputes submitted to it. The Concerned States shall provide it with
all information which might be of use in resolving a dispute submitted to it.
The Joint Administrative Committee shall examine all possibilities to maintain
the good functioning of the Convention.         5     If a dispute cannot be
resolved following discussion at the Joint Administrative Committee in
accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4), it shall be submitted, at the request
of a Concerned State, to an arbitration tribunal which shall be constituted in
the following manner:     a     a Concerned State shall send the request for
arbitration to the other Concerned State, and shall notify the States who are
not Concerned States;         b     the arbitration tribunal shall be composed
of three arbitrators;         c     each Concerned State shall appoint an
arbitrator within one month from receipt of the request for arbitration. The
arbitrators shall appoint a third arbitrator, who shall not be a national of a
Concerned State, within two months from the date on which the Concerned State
which was the last to appoint its arbitrator has notified the other Concerned
State of the appointment;         d     if within the prescribed period either
Concerned State should fail to appoint an arbitrator, the other Concerned
State may request the President of the International Court of Justice or, in
the event of their having the nationality of one of the Concerned States, the
Vice-President or next senior judge of that Court not having the nationality
of a Concerned State, to make the appointment. A similar procedure shall be
adopted at the request of a Concerned State if the arbitrators cannot agree on
the appointment of the third arbitrator.             6     The arbitration
tribunal shall determine its own rules of procedure, and its costs shall be
agreed with the Concerned States and borne in equal shares by them. These
rules may include provision for States other than the Concerned States to be
provided with access to, or copies of, any evidence relied upon by any of the
Concerned States before the tribunal and any documents sent by the tribunal or
a Concerned State to the other.         7     The arbitration tribunal shall
decide the matter by majority vote. The decision shall be binding on the
Concerned States.             ARTICLE 72       Annexes

  The Annexes (including any appendices) shall form integral parts of this
Convention.             TITLE V       FINAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 73       Authentic text and depositary             1     This
Convention is drawn up in a single original in the English language.         2
The Government of Norway shall be the Depositary of this Convention.
ARTICLE 74       Entry into force                 1     The States shall
notify the Depositary in writing of completion of their respective internal
requirements and procedures for entry into force of this Convention.         2
This Convention shall enter into force, in relation to those States which have
notified the Depositary, on the first day of the month following the later of
the dates on which the Depositary receives the notifications of at least one
EEA EFTA State and the United Kingdom.         3     This Convention shall
enter into force, in relation to an EEA EFTA State which notifies the
Depositary after the date on which at least one EEA EFTA State and the United
Kingdom have notified the Depositary, on the first day of the month following
the date on which the Depositary receives the notification of that EEA EFTA
State.             ARTICLE 75       Withdrawal and termination
1     Subject to Article 76, each State may withdraw from this Convention by
means of a written notification to the Depositary. The withdrawal shall take
effect 12 months after the date on which the notification is received by the
Depositary unless the States agree otherwise.         2     If the United
Kingdom withdraws, this Convention shall terminate when its withdrawal becomes
effective.             ARTICLE 76       Post-termination and post-withdrawal
arrangements                 1     In the event that this Convention is
terminated or a State withdraws from it in accordance with Article 75, to the
extent that individuals are affected by the withdrawal or termination, rights
to cash benefits acquired by a person in accordance with the provisions of
this Convention shall be maintained, if:     a     at the date of withdrawal
or termination, the person is in receipt of those cash benefits;         b
at or prior to the date of withdrawal or termination, they have lodged a claim
for, and would be entitled to receive, those cash benefits; or         c
the only reason they are not entitled to receive those cash benefits is that
they have not lodged a claim for them at or prior to the date of withdrawal or
termination.             2     Prior to the expiry of the period referred to
in Article 75, and without prejudice to the protections in paragraph (1), the
States shall commence discussions on appropriate consequential and
transitional arrangements for the protection of persons affected by a State’s
withdrawal from or the termination of this Convention.             ARTICLE 77
Transitional Provision                 1     No provision of this Convention
shall confer any right to receive a benefit for any period before the date of
entry into force of this Convention.         2     The following shall be
taken into consideration in determining the right to benefits under this
Convention:     a     any period of insurance, and, where appropriate, any
period of employment, self-employment or residence completed under the
legislation of the States before the entry into force of this Convention; and
b     insured events occurring before the entry into force of this Convention.
3     This Convention shall not apply to rights extinguished by the payment of
a lump-sum payment.         4     In this Article at paragraphs (5) and (6),
any reference to ‘a certificate’ or ‘that certificate’ is a reference to the
certificate issued under the provisions of either the 1990 Convention or the
1983 Convention confirming the state where a person is liable to be insured.
5     If, as a result of this Convention, a person is subject to the
legislation of a State other than the legislation identified as applying to
that person in a certificate issued to them, that person shall continue to be
subject to the legislation identified in that certificate for the period
identified in that certificate, provided that person’s situation remains
unchanged.         6     A person’s situation remains unchanged where the
circumstances that justified the issue of a certificate to that person
continue after the time this Convention enters into force.         7     A
person to whom paragraph (5) applies may request that they be subject to the
legislation applicable under Title II of this Convention. The request shall be
in writing and should be submitted to the State whose legislation would be
applicable to that person under Title II of this Convention within the three
months following the date this Convention enters into force. The person shall
be subject to the legislation of that State as of the date this Convention
applies to that State. If the request is made after the expiry of the three-
month period indicated, the changeover shall take place on the first day of
the following month.             ARTICLE 78       Relationship with pre-
existing Social Security Coordination Agreements                 1     Subject
to paragraphs (2) to (4), the following treaties between the United Kingdom
and relevant individual EEA EFTA States shall, as from the date of entry into
force of this Convention in relation to those EEA EFTA States in accordance
with Article 74, cease to apply to England, Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland:     a     The 1990 Convention;         b     The Protocol Concerning
Medical Treatment of 19 June 1990, supplementary to the 1990 Convention,
(“Norway Healthcare Protocol”);         c     The 1983 Convention;         d
The Agreement Between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Iceland on Health
Services, signed in Reykjavik on 22 September 1982 (“Iceland Health Services
Agreement”).             2     The provisions of the 1990 Convention, the
Norway Healthcare Protocol, and the 1983 Convention shall continue to apply to
the Isle of Man and Jersey.         3     The provisions of the Iceland Health
Services Agreement shall continue to apply to the Bailiwick of Guernsey, the
Isle of Man and Jersey.         4     The provisions of the 1990 Convention
and the 1983 Convention shall continue to apply in relation to:     a     any
award of a cash benefit, pension or allowance made prior to the date upon
which this Convention comes into force;         b     any claim to a benefit,
pension or allowance made but not determined at the date upon which this
Convention comes into force;         c     any claim to a benefit, pension or
allowance made after the date this Convention comes into force but only where
that claim relates to entitlement to such benefit, pension or allowance for a
period prior to the date upon which this Convention comes into force.

  In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised by their respective
Governments, have signed this Convention.

  Done at London, this 30th day of June 2023, in one original in the English
language, which shall be deposited with the Depositary, who shall transmit
certified copies to all the States.             For Iceland:       JOHANNA
JONSDOTTI         For the Principality of Liechtenstein:       ESTHER
SCHINDLER         For the Kingdom of Norway:       LARS-ERIK HAUGE         For
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:       LEO DOCHERTY
CONVENTION ON SOCIAL SECURITY COORDINATION BETWEEN ICELAND, THE PRINCIPALITY
OF LIECHTENSTEIN, THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY AND THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND               ANNEXES                 ANNEX 1
IMPLEMENTING PART                     TITLE I       GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1                 ARTICLE 1       Definitions

  For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions, in addition to
those set out in Article 1 of this Convention, apply.     a     “ document ”
means a set of data, irrespective of the medium used, structured in such a way
that it can be exchanged electronically and which must be communicated in
order to enable the operation of this Convention and this Annex;         b
“ fraud ” means any deliberate act or deliberate omission to act, carried out
with the intention to either:     i     receive social security benefits, or
enable another person to receive social security benefits, when the conditions
of entitlement to such benefits under the law of the State(s) concerned or
this Convention are not met; or         ii     avoid paying social security
contributions, or enable another person to avoid paying social security
contributions, when such contributions are required under the law of the
State(s) concerned or this Convention.             c     “ liaison body ”
means any body designated by the competent authority of a State for one or
more of the branches of social security referred to in Article 6 of this
Convention to respond to requests for information and assistance for the
purposes of the application of this Convention and of this Annex and which has
to fulfil the tasks assigned to it under Title IV of this Annex;         d
“ transmission by electronic means ” means the transmission of data using
electronic equipment for the processing (including digital compression) of
data and employing wires, radio transmission, optical technologies or any
other electromagnetic means.             CHAPTER 2       PROVISIONS CONCERNING
COOPERATION AND EXCHANGES OF DATA                     ARTICLE 2       Scope
and rules for exchanges between authorities and institutions                 1
For the purposes of this Annex, exchanges between the States’ authorities and
institutions and persons covered by this Convention shall be based on the
principles of public service, efficiency, active assistance, rapid delivery
and accessibility, including e-accessibility, in particular for the disabled
and the elderly.         2     The institutions shall without delay provide or
exchange all data necessary for establishing and determining the rights and
obligations of persons to whom this Convention applies. Such data shall be
transferred between the States directly by the institutions themselves or
indirectly via the liaison bodies.         3     Where a person has mistakenly
submitted information, documents or claims to an institution in the territory
of a State other than that in which the institution designated, in accordance
with this Annex, is situated, the information, documents or claims shall be
resubmitted without delay by the former institution to the institution
designated in accordance with this Annex, indicating the date on which they
were initially submitted. That date shall be binding on the latter
institution. The institutions of the States shall not, however, be held
liable, or be deemed to have taken a decision by virtue of their failure to
act as a result of the late transmission of information, documents or claims
by States’ institutions.         4     Where data are transferred indirectly
via the liaison body of the State of destination, time limits for responding
to claims shall start from the date when that liaison body received the claim,
as if it had been received by the institution in that State.
ARTICLE 3       Scope and rules for exchanges between the persons concerned
and institutions                 1     The States shall ensure that the
necessary information is made available to the persons concerned in order to
inform them of the provisions introduced by this Convention and this Annex to
enable them to assert their rights. They shall also provide for user-friendly
services.         2     Persons to whom this Convention applies shall be
required to forward to the relevant institution the information, documents or
supporting evidence necessary to establish their situation or that of their
families, to establish or maintain their rights and obligations and to
determine the applicable legislation and their obligations under it.         3
To the extent necessary for the application of this Convention and this Annex,
the relevant institutions shall forward the information and issue the
documents to the persons concerned without delay and in all cases within any
time limits specified under the legislation of the State in question.
4     The relevant institution shall notify the claimant residing or staying
in another State of its decision directly or through the liaison body of the
State of residence or stay. When refusing the benefits, it shall also indicate
the reasons for refusal, the remedies and periods allowed for appeals. A copy
of this decision shall be sent to other involved institutions.
ARTICLE 4       Forms, documents and methods of exchanging data
1     Subject to Article 73 and Appendix 1 of this Annex, the structure,
content and format of forms and documents issued on behalf of the States for
the purposes of implementing this Convention shall be agreed by the Joint
Administrative Committee.         2     The transmission of data between the
institutions or the liaison bodies may, subject to the approval of the States
through the Joint Administrative Committee, be carried out by way of
electronic exchange. To the extent the forms and documents referred to in
paragraph (1) are transmitted by electronic exchange, they shall respect the
rules applicable to that system.         3     Where the transmission of data
between institutions or the liaison bodies is not carried out by way of
electronic exchange, the relevant institutions and liaison bodies shall use
the arrangements appropriate to each case, and favour the use of electronic
means as far as possible.         4     In their communications with the
persons concerned, the relevant institutions shall use the arrangements
appropriate to each case, and favour the use of electronic means as far as
possible.             ARTICLE 5       Legal value of documents and supporting
evidence issued in another State                 1     Documents issued by the
institution of a State and showing the position of a person for the purposes
of the application of this Convention and this Annex, and supporting evidence
on the basis of which the documents have been issued, shall be accepted by the
institutions of the other States for as long as they have not been withdrawn
or declared to be invalid by the State in which they were issued.         2
Where there is doubt about the validity of a document or the accuracy of the
facts on which the particulars contained therein are based, the institution of
the State that receives the document shall ask the issuing institution for the
necessary clarification and, where appropriate, the withdrawal of that
document. The issuing institution shall reconsider the grounds for issuing the
document and, if necessary, withdraw it.         3     Pursuant to paragraph
(2), where there is doubt about the information provided by the persons
concerned, the validity of a document or supporting evidence or the accuracy
of the facts on which the particulars contained therein are based, the
institution of the place of stay or residence shall, insofar as this is
possible, at the request of the competent institution, proceed to the
necessary verification of this information or document.         4     Where no
agreement is reached between the institutions concerned, the matter may be
referred to the Joint Administrative Committee by the competent authorities.
ARTICLE 6       Provisional application of legislation and provisional
granting of benefits                 1     Unless otherwise provided for in
this Annex, where there is a difference of views between the institutions or
authorities of two or more States concerning the determination of the
applicable legislation, the person concerned shall be made provisionally
subject to the legislation of one of those States, the order of priority being
determined as follows:     a     the legislation of the State where the person
actually pursues their employment or self-employment, if the employment or
self-employment is pursued in only one State;         b     the legislation of
the State of residence if the person concerned pursues employment or self-
employment in two or more States and performs part of their activity or
activities in the State of residence, or if the person concerned is neither
employed nor self-employed;         c     in all other cases, the legislation
of the State the application of which was first requested if the person
pursues an activity, or activities, in two or more States.             2
Where there is a difference of views between the institutions or authorities
of two or more States about which institution should provide the benefits in
cash or in kind, the person concerned who could claim benefits if there was no
dispute shall be entitled, on a provisional basis, to the benefits provided
for by the legislation applied by the institution of that person’s place of
residence or, if that person does not reside on the territory of one of the
States concerned, to the benefits provided for by the legislation applied by
the institution to which the request was first submitted.         3     Where
no agreement is reached between the institutions or authorities concerned, the
matter may be referred to the Joint Administrative Committee by the competent
authorities.         4     Where it is established either that the applicable
legislation is not that of the State of provisional membership, or the
institution which granted the benefits on a provisional basis was not the
competent institution, the institution identified as being competent shall be
deemed retroactively to have been so, as if that difference of views had not
existed, at the latest from either the date of provisional membership or of
the first provisional granting of the benefits concerned.         5     If
necessary, the institution identified as being competent and the institution
which provisionally paid the cash benefits or provisionally received
contributions shall settle the financial situation of the person concerned as
regards contributions and cash benefits paid provisionally, where appropriate,
in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title IV of this Annex.         6     Benefits
in kind granted provisionally by an institution in accordance with paragraph
(2) shall be reimbursed by the competent institution in accordance with Title
IV of this Annex.             ARTICLE 7       Provisional calculation of
benefits and contributions                 1     Unless otherwise provided for
in this Annex, where a person is eligible for a benefit, or is liable to pay a
contribution in accordance with this Convention, and the competent institution
does not have all the information concerning the situation in another State
which is necessary to calculate definitively the amount of that benefit or
contribution, that institution shall, on request of the person concerned,
award this benefit or calculate this contribution on a provisional basis, if
such a calculation is possible on the basis of the information at the disposal
of that institution.         2     The benefit or the contribution concerned
shall be recalculated once all the necessary supporting evidence or documents
are provided to the institution concerned.             CHAPTER 3       OTHER
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR THE APPLICATION OF THIS CONVENTION
ARTICLE 8       Other procedures between authorities and institutions
1     The UK and one or more of the EEA EFTA States, or their competent
authorities, may agree procedures other than those provided for by this Annex,
provided that such procedures do not adversely affect the rights or
obligations of the persons concerned.         2     Any agreements concluded
to this end shall be agreed by the States in question through the Joint
Administrative Committee.             ARTICLE 9       Prevention of
overlapping of benefits

  Notwithstanding other provisions in this Convention, when benefits due under
the legislation of two or more States are mutually reduced, suspended or
withdrawn, any amounts that would not be paid in the event of strict
application of the rules concerning reduction, suspension or withdrawal laid
down by the legislation of the State concerned shall be divided by the number
of benefits subjected to reduction, suspension or withdrawal.
ARTICLE 10       Elements for determining residence             1     Where
there is a difference of views between the institutions of two or more States
about the determination of the residence of a person to whom this Convention
applies, these institutions shall establish by common agreement the centre of
interests of the person concerned, based on an overall assessment of all
available information relating to relevant facts, which may include, as
appropriate:     a     the duration and continuity of presence on the
territory of the States concerned;         b     that person’s situation,
including:     i     the nature and the specific characteristics of any
activity pursued, in particular the place where such activity is habitually
pursued, the stability of the activity, and the duration of any work contract;
ii     that person’s family status and family ties;         iii     the
exercise of any non-remunerated activity;         iv     in the case of
students, the source of that student’s income;         v     that person’s
housing situation, in particular how permanent it is;         vi     the State
in which that person is deemed to reside for taxation purposes.
2     Where the consideration of the various criteria based on relevant facts
as set out in paragraph (1) does not lead to agreement between the
institutions concerned, the person’s intention, as it appears from such facts
and circumstances, especially the reasons that led the person to move, shall
be considered to be decisive for establishing that person’s actual place of
residence.         3     The centre of interests of a student who goes to
another State to pursue a full-time course of study shall not be considered as
being in the State of study for the entire duration of the course of study in
that State, without prejudice to the possibility of rebutting this
presumption.         4     Paragraph (3) applies  mutatis mutandis  to the
family members of the student.             ARTICLE 11       Aggregation of
periods                 1     For the purposes of applying Article 10 of this
Convention, the competent institution shall contact the institutions of the
States to whose legislation the person concerned has also been subject in
order to determine all the periods completed under their legislation.
2     The respective periods of insurance, employment, self-employment or
residence completed under the legislation of a State shall be added to those
completed under the legislation of any other State, insofar as necessary for
the purposes of applying Article 10 of this Convention, provided that these
periods do not overlap.         3     Where a period of insurance or residence
which is completed in accordance with compulsory insurance under the
legislation of a State coincides with a period of insurance completed on the
basis of voluntary insurance or continued optional insurance under the
legislation of another State, only the period completed on the basis of
compulsory insurance shall be taken into account.         4     Where a period
of insurance or residence other than an equivalent period completed under the
legislation of a State coincides with an equivalent period on the basis of the
legislation of another State, only the period other than an equivalent period
shall be taken into account.         5     Any period regarded as equivalent
under the legislation of two or more States shall be taken into account only
by the institution of the State to whose legislation the person concerned was
last compulsorily subject before that period. In the event that the person
concerned was not compulsorily subject to the legislation of a State before
that period, the latter shall be taken into account by the institution of the
State to whose legislation the person concerned was compulsorily subject for
the first time after that period.         6     In the event that the time in
which certain periods of insurance or residence were completed under the
legislation of a State cannot be determined precisely, it shall be presumed
that these periods do not overlap with periods of insurance or residence
completed under the legislation of another State, and account shall be taken
thereof, where advantageous to the person concerned, insofar as they can
reasonably be taken into consideration.             ARTICLE 12       Rules for
conversion of periods                 1     Where periods completed under the
legislation of a State are expressed in units different from those provided
for by the legislation of another State, the conversion needed for the purpose
of aggregation under Article 10 of this Convention shall be carried out under
the following rules:     a     the period to be used as the basis for the
conversion shall be that communicated by the institution of the State under
whose legislation the period was completed;         b     in the case of
schemes where the periods are expressed in days the conversion from days to
other units, and vice versa, as well as between different schemes based on
days shall be calculated according to the following table:         Scheme
based on 1 day corresponds to 1 week corresponds to 1 month corresponds to 1
quarter corresponds To Maximum of days in one calendar year 5 days 9 hours 5
days 22 days 66 days 264 days 6 days 8 hours 6 days 26 days 78 days 312 days 7
days 6 hours 7 days 30 days 90 days 360 days             c     in the case of
schemes where the periods are expressed in units other than days,     i
three months or 13 weeks shall be equivalent to one quarter, and  vice versa ;
ii     one year shall be equivalent to four quarters, 12 months or 52 weeks,
and  vice versa ;         iii     for the conversion of weeks into months, and
vice versa , weeks and months shall be converted into days in accordance with
the conversion rules for the schemes based on six days in the table in sub-
paragraph (b);             d     in the case of periods expressed in
fractions, those figures shall be converted into the next smaller integer unit
applying the rules laid down in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c). Fractions of years
shall be converted into months unless the scheme involved is based on
quarters;         e     if the conversion under this paragraph results in a
fraction of a unit, the next higher integer unit shall be taken as the result
of the conversion under this paragraph.             2     The application of
paragraph (1) shall not have the effect of producing, for the total sum of the
periods completed during one calendar year, a total exceeding the number of
days indicated in the last column in the table in paragraph (1)(b), 52 weeks,
12 months or four quarters.

  If the periods to be converted correspond to the maximum annual amount of
periods under the legislation of the State in which they have been completed,
the application of paragraph (1) shall not result within one calendar year in
periods that are shorter than the possible maximum annual amount of periods
provided under the legislation concerned.     3     The conversion shall be
carried out either in one single operation covering all those periods which
were communicated as an aggregate, or for each year, if the periods were
communicated on a year-by-year basis.         4     Where an institution
communicates periods expressed in days, it shall at the same time indicate
whether the scheme it administers is based on five days, six days or seven
days.             TITLE II       DETERMINATION OF THE LEGISLATION APPLICABLE
ARTICLE 13       Details relating to Articles 14 and 15 of this Convention
1     For the purposes of the application of Article 14(1) of this Convention,
a “person who pursues an activity as an employed person in the territory of a
State for an employer which normally carries out its activities there and who
is sent by that employer to the territory of another State” shall:     a
include a person who is recruited with a view to being sent to a State, other
than the State where the employer normally carries out its activities,
provided that, immediately before the start of that person’s employment, the
person concerned is already subject to the legislation of the State in which
their employer is established;         b     have been subject to the
legislation of the State in which their employer is established for a prior
minimum period of time. The prior minimum period shall be agreed by the Joint
Administrative Committee;         c     continue to have a direct relationship
with their employer during the period of their detachment; and         d
be paid by or on behalf of their employer, in accordance with the legislation
of the State whose legislation is applicable pursuant to Title II of this
Convention, during the period of their detachment.             2     For the
purposes of the application of Article 14(1) of this Convention, the words
“which normally carries out its activities there” shall refer to an employer
that ordinarily performs substantial activities, other than purely internal
management activities, in the territory of the State in which it is
established, taking account of all criteria characterising the activities
carried out by the undertaking in question. The relevant criteria must be
suited to the specific characteristics of each employer and the real nature of
the activities carried out.         3     For the purposes of the application
of Article 14(2) of this Convention, the words “who normally pursues an
activity as a self-employed person” shall refer to a person who habitually
carries out substantial activities in the territory of the State in which that
person is established. In particular, that person must have already pursued
their activity for a minimum period of time before the date when they wish to
take advantage of the provisions of that Article and, during any period of
temporary activity in the other State, must continue to fulfil, in the State
where they are established, the requirements for the pursuit of their activity
in order to be able to pursue it on their return. The minimum period of time
that person must have already pursued their activity shall be agreed by the
Joint Administrative Committee.         4     For the purposes of the
application of Article 14(2) of this Convention, the criterion for determining
whether the activity that a self-employed person goes to pursue in another
State is “similar” to the self-employed activity normally pursued shall be
that of the actual nature of the activity, rather than of the designation of
employed or self-employed activity that may be given to this activity by the
other State where the activity occurs.         5     For the purposes of the
application of Article 15(1) and (5) of this Convention, a person who
“normally pursues an activity as an employed person in one or more EEA EFTA
States as well as in the United Kingdom”, or in “two or more EEA EFTA States
(and not in the United Kingdom ) ”, shall refer to a person who
simultaneously, or in alternation, for the same undertaking or employer or for
various undertakings or employers, exercises one or more separate activities
in such States.         6     For the purposes of Article 15 (1) and (5) of
this Convention, an employed flight crew or cabin crew member normally
pursuing air passenger or freight services in two or more States shall be
subject to the legislation of the State where the home base, as defined in
Article 1 of this Convention, is located.         7     Marginal activities
shall be disregarded for the purposes of determining the applicable
legislation under Article 15 of this Convention.         8     Article 15 of
this Annex shall apply to all cases under this Article.         9     For the
purposes of the application of Article 15(2) and (6) of this Convention, a
person who “normally pursues an activity as a self-employed person” in “one or
more EEA EFTA States as well as in the United Kingdom”, or in “two or more EEA
EFTA States (and not in the United Kingdom)” respectively, shall refer, in
particular, to a person who simultaneously or in alternation pursues one or
more separate self-employed activities, irrespective of the nature of those
activities, in such States.         10     For the purposes of distinguishing
the activities under paragraphs (5) and (9) of this Article from the
situations described in Article 14(1) of this Convention, the duration of the
activity in one or more States (whether it is permanent or of an  ad hoc  or
temporary nature) shall be decisive. For these purposes, an overall assessment
shall be made of all the relevant facts including, in particular, in the case
of an employed person, the place of work as defined in the employment
contract.         11     For the purposes of the application of Article 15(1),
(2), (5) and (6) of this Convention, a “substantial part of employed or self-
employed activity” pursued in a State shall mean a quantitatively substantial
part of all the activities of the employed or self-employed person pursued
there, without this necessarily being the major part of those activities.
12     To determine whether a substantial part of the activities is pursued in
a State, the following indicative criteria shall be taken into account:     a
in the case of an employed activity, the working time or the remuneration; and
b     in the case of a self-employed activity, the turnover, working time,
number of services rendered or income.

  In the framework of an overall assessment, a share of less than 25% in
respect of the criteria mentioned above shall be an indicator that a
substantial part of the activities is not being pursued in the relevant State.
13     For the purposes of the application of Article 15(2)(b) of this
Convention, the “centre of interest” of the activities of a self-employed
person shall be determined by taking account of all the aspects of that
person’s occupational activities, notably the place where the person’s fixed
and permanent place of business is located, the habitual nature or the
duration of the activities pursued, the number of services rendered, and the
intention of the person concerned as revealed by all the circumstances.
14     For the determination of the applicable legislation under paragraphs
(11), (12) and (13), the institutions concerned shall take into account the
situation projected for the following 12 calendar months.         15     If a
person pursues their activity as an employed person in two or more States on
behalf of an employer established outside the territory of the States, and if
this person resides in a State without pursuing substantial activity there,
they shall be subject to the legislation of the State of residence.
ARTICLE 14       Procedures for the application of Article 13(3)(b), Article
13(3)(c), Article 13(4) and Article 14 of this Convention (on the provision of
information to the institutions concerned)                 1     Unless
otherwise provided for by Article 15 of this Annex, where a person pursues
their activity outside the competent State, the employer or, in the case of a
person who does not pursue an activity as an employed person, the person
concerned shall inform the competent institution of the State whose
legislation is applicable thereof, whenever possible in advance. That
institution shall issue the attestation referred to in Article 17(2) of this
Annex to the person concerned and shall without delay make information
concerning the legislation applicable to that person, pursuant to Article
13(3)(b) or Article 14 of this Convention, available to the institution
designated by the competent authority of the State in which the activity is
pursued.         2     Paragraph (1) shall apply  mutatis mutandis  to persons
covered by Article 13(3)(c) of this Convention.         3     An employer
within the meaning of Article 13(4) of this Convention who has an employee on
board a vessel flying the flag of another State shall inform the competent
institution of the State whose legislation is applicable thereof whenever
possible in advance. That institution shall, without delay, make information
concerning the legislation applicable to the person concerned, pursuant to
Article 13(4) of this Convention, available to the institution designated by
the competent authority of the State whose flag, the vessel on which the
employee is to perform the activity, is flying.             ARTICLE 15
Procedure for the application of Article 15 of this Convention
1     A person who pursues activities in two or more States, or where Article
15(5) or (6) of this Convention applies, shall inform the institution
designated by the competent authority of the State of residence thereof.
2     The designated institution of the place of residence shall without delay
determine the legislation applicable to the person concerned, having regard to
Article 15 of this Convention and Article 13 of this Annex. That initial
determination shall be provisional. The institution shall inform the
designated institutions of each State in which an activity is pursued of its
provisional determination.         3     The provisional determination of the
applicable legislation, as provided for in paragraph (2), shall become
definitive within two months of the institutions designated by the competent
authorities of the State(s) concerned being informed of it, in accordance with
paragraph (2), unless the legislation has already been definitively determined
on the basis of paragraph (4), or at least one of the institutions concerned
informs the institution designated by the competent authority of the State of
residence by the end of this two-month period that it cannot yet accept the
determination or that it takes a different view on this.         4     Where
uncertainty about the determination of the applicable legislation requires
contacts between the institutions or authorities of two or more States, at the
request of one or more of the institutions designated by the competent
authorities of the State(s) concerned, or of the competent authorities
themselves, the legislation applicable to the person concerned shall be
determined by common agreement, having regard to Article 15 of this Convention
and Article 13 of this Annex.

  Where there is a difference of views between the institutions or competent
authorities concerned, those bodies shall seek agreement in accordance with
the conditions set out above and Article 6 of this Annex shall apply.     5
The competent institution of the State whose legislation is determined to be
applicable either provisionally or definitively shall without delay inform the
person concerned.         6     If the person concerned fails to provide the
information referred to in paragraph (1), this Article shall be applied at the
initiative of the institution designated by the competent authority of the
State of residence as soon as it is appraised of that person’s situation,
possibly via another institution concerned.             ARTICLE 16
Procedure for the application of Article 18 of this Convention

  A request by the employer or the person concerned for exceptions to Articles
13 to 17 of this Convention shall be submitted, whenever possible in advance,
to the competent authority or the body designated by the authority of the
State, whose legislation the employee or person concerned requests be applied.
ARTICLE 17       Provision of information to persons concerned and employers
1     The competent institution of the State whose legislation becomes
applicable pursuant to Title II of this Convention shall inform the person
concerned and, where appropriate, their employer(s) of the obligations laid
down in that legislation. It shall provide them with the necessary assistance
to complete the formalities required by that legislation.         2     At the
request of the person concerned or of the employer, the competent institution
of the State whose legislation is applicable pursuant to Title II of this
Convention shall provide an attestation that such legislation is applicable
and shall indicate, where appropriate, until what date and under what
conditions.             ARTICLE 18       Cooperation between institutions
1     The relevant institutions shall communicate to the competent institution
of the State whose legislation is applicable to a person pursuant to Title II
of this Convention the necessary information required to establish the date on
which that legislation becomes applicable and the contributions which that
person and their employer(s) are liable to pay under that legislation.
2     The competent institution of the State whose legislation becomes
applicable to a person pursuant to Title II of this Convention shall make the
information indicating the date on which the application of that legislation
takes effect available to the institution designated by the competent
authority of the State to whose legislation that person was last subject.
ARTICLE 19       Cooperation in case of doubts about the validity of issued
documents concerning the applicable legislation                 1     Where
there is doubt about the validity of a document showing the position of the
person for the purposes of the applicable legislation or the accuracy of the
facts on which the document is based, the institution of the State that
receives the document shall ask the issuing institution for the necessary
clarification and, where appropriate, the withdrawal or rectification of that
document. The requesting institution shall substantiate its request and
provide the relevant supporting documentation that gave rise to the request.
2     When receiving such a request, the issuing institution shall reconsider
the grounds for issuing the document and, where an error is detected, withdraw
it or rectify it within 30 working days from the receipt of the request. The
withdrawal or rectification shall have retroactive effect. However, in cases
where there is a risk of disproportionate outcome, and in particular, of the
loss of status as an insured person for the whole or part of the relevant
period in the State(s) concerned, the States shall consider a more
proportionate arrangement in such case. When the available evidence permits
the issuing institution to find that the applicant of the document has
committed fraud, it shall withdraw or rectify the document without delay and
with retroactive effect.             TITLE III       SPECIAL PROVISIONS
CONCERNING THE VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF BENEFITS                     CHAPTER 1
SICKNESS, MATERNITY AND EQUIVALENT PATERNITY BENEFITS
ARTICLE 20       General implementing provisions                 1     The
competent authorities or institutions shall ensure that any necessary
information is made available to insured persons regarding the procedures and
conditions for the granting of benefits in kind where such benefits are
received in the territory of a State other than that of the competent
institution.         2     Notwithstanding Article 9(a) of this Convention, a
State may become responsible for the cost of benefits in accordance with
Article 26 of this Convention only if, either the insured person has made a
claim for a pension under the legislation of that State, or in accordance with
Articles 27 to 33 of this Convention, they receive a pension under the
legislation of that State.             ARTICLE 21       Residence in a State
other than the competent State                 Procedure and scope of right
1     For the purposes of the application of Article 21 of this Convention,
the insured person or members of that person’s family shall be obliged to
register promptly with the institution of the place of residence. Their right
to benefits in kind in the State of residence shall be certified by a document
issued by the competent institution upon request of the insured person or upon
request of the institution of the place of residence.         2     The
document referred to in paragraph (1) shall remain valid until the competent
institution informs the institution of the place of residence of its
cancellation. The institution of the place of residence shall inform the
competent institution of any registration under paragraph (1) and of any
change or cancellation of that registration.         3     This Article
applies  mutatis mutandis  to the persons referred to in Articles 26, 28, 29
and 30 of this Convention.         Health fee reimbursement             4
Where a person or the members of that person’s family:     a     have been
issued with the document referred to in paragraph (1);         b     have
registered that document with the institution of the place of residence in
accordance with paragraph (1); and         c     a health fee has been paid by
or on behalf of the person or members of their family to the State of
residence as part of an application for a permit to enter, stay, work or
reside in that State,

  that person or members of that person’s family may apply to the institution
of the State of residence for reimbursement (in whole or part, as the case may
be) of the health fee paid.     5     Where a claim is made in accordance with
paragraph (1), the institution of the State of residence shall determine that
claim within three calendar months, starting on the day the claim was
received, and shall make any reimbursement of a health fee paid in accordance
with the conditions in this Article.         6     Where the period of
validity of the document referred to in paragraph (1) is less than the period
of time in respect of which the health fee has been paid, the amount
reimbursed shall not exceed that portion of the health fee which corresponds
to the period for which the document had been issued.         7     Where the
health fee was paid by another person on behalf of a person to whom this
Article applies, reimbursement may be made to that other person.
ARTICLE 22       Stay in a State other than the competent State
Procedure and scope of right             1     For the purposes of the
application of Article 23 of this Convention, the insured person shall present
to the health care provider in the State of stay an entitlement document
issued by the competent institution indicating their entitlement to benefits
in kind. If the insured person does not have such a document, the institution
of the place of stay, upon request or if otherwise necessary, shall contact
the competent institution in order to obtain one.         2     That document
shall indicate that the insured person is entitled to benefits in kind under
the conditions laid down in Article 23 of this Convention on the same terms as
those applicable to persons insured under the legislation of the State of
stay, and shall satisfy the requirements in Appendix 1 of this Annex.
3     The benefits in kind referred to in Article 23(1) of this Convention
shall refer to the benefits in kind which are provided in the State of stay,
in accordance with its legislation, and which become necessary on medical
grounds with a view to preventing an insured person from being forced to
return, before the end of the planned duration of stay, to the competent State
to obtain the necessary treatment.         Procedure and arrangements for
meeting the costs and providing reimbursement of benefits in kind
4     If the insured person has actually borne the costs of all or part of the
benefits in kind provided within the framework of Article 23 of this
Convention and if the legislation applied by the institution of the place of
stay enables reimbursement of those costs to an insured person, they may send
an application for reimbursement to the institution of the place of stay. In
that case, that institution shall reimburse directly to that person the amount
of the costs corresponding to those benefits within the limits of and under
the conditions of the reimbursement rates laid down in its legislation.
5     If the reimbursement of such costs has not been requested directly from
the institution of the place of stay, the costs incurred shall be reimbursed
to the person concerned by the competent institution in accordance with the
reimbursement rates administered by the institution of the place of stay or
the amounts which would have been subject to reimbursement to the institution
of the place of stay, if Article 46 of this Annex had applied in the case
concerned.

  The institution of the place of stay shall provide the competent
institution, upon request, with all necessary information about these rates or
amounts.     6     By way of derogation from paragraph (5), the competent
institution may undertake the reimbursement of the costs incurred within the
limits of and under the conditions of the reimbursement rates laid down in its
legislation, provided that the insured person has agreed to this provision
being applied to them.         7     If the legislation of the State of stay
does not provide for reimbursement pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5) in the
case concerned, the competent institution may reimburse the costs within the
limits of and under the conditions of the reimbursement rates laid down in its
legislation, without the agreement of the insured person.         8     The
reimbursement to the insured person shall not, in any event, exceed the amount
of costs actually incurred by them.         9     In the case of substantial
expenditure, the competent institution may pay the insured person an
appropriate advance as soon as that person submits the application for
reimbursement to it.         Family Members             10     Paragraphs (1)
to (9) apply  mutatis mutandis  to the members of the family of the insured
person.         Health fee reimbursement for students             11     Where
a person:     a     holds a valid entitlement document referred to in Appendix
1 of this Annex issued by the competent institution;         b     has been
accepted by a higher education institution in a State other than the competent
State (“State of study”) to pursue a full-time course of study leading to a
higher education qualification recognised by that State, including diplomas,
certificates or doctoral degrees at a higher education institution, which may
cover a preparatory course prior to such education, in accordance with
national law, or compulsory training;         c     does not exercise, or has
not exercised, an activity as an employed or self-employed person in the State
of study during the period to which the health fee relates; and         d
a health fee has been paid by or on behalf of that person to the State of
study as part of an application for a permit to enter, stay or reside for the
purposes of pursuing a full-time course of study in that State;

  that person may apply to the institution of the State of study for
reimbursement (in whole or part, as the case may be) of the health fee paid.
12     Where a claim is made in accordance with paragraph (11), the
institution of the State of study shall process and settle that claim within a
reasonable period but not later than three calendar months starting on the day
the claim was received and make any reimbursement of a health fee paid in
accordance with the conditions in this Article.         13     Where the
period of validity of the entitlement document referred to in paragraph
(11)(a) is less than the period of time in respect of which the health fee has
been paid, the amount of the health fee reimbursed shall be the amount paid
which corresponds to the period of validity of that document.         14
Where the health fee was paid by another person on behalf of a person to whom
this Article applies, reimbursement may be made to that other person.
15     Paragraphs (11) to (14) apply  mutatis mutandis  to the members of the
family of that person.         16     By way of derogation from Article 8(1)
of this Convention, charges may be imposed by the State of study in accordance
with its national law in respect of benefits in kind that do not fulfil the
criteria set out in Article 23(1)(a) of this Convention and which are provided
to a person in respect of whom reimbursement has been made during that
person’s stay for the period to which that reimbursement relates.
ARTICLE 23       Scheduled treatment                 Authorisation procedure
1     For the purposes of the application of Article 24(1) of this Convention,
the insured person shall present a document issued by the competent
institution to the institution of the place of stay. For the purposes of this
Article, the competent institution shall mean the institution which bears the
cost of the scheduled treatment; in the cases referred to in Article 24(4) and
Article 31(5) of this Convention, in which the benefits in kind provided in
the State of residence are reimbursed on the basis of fixed amounts, the
competent institution shall mean the institution of the place of residence.
2     If an insured person does not reside in the competent State, they shall
request authorisation from the institution of the place of residence, which
shall forward it to the competent institution without delay.

  In that event, the institution of the place of residence shall certify in a
statement whether the conditions set out in the second sentence of Article
24(2) of this Convention are met in the State of residence.

  The competent institution may refuse to grant the requested authorisation
only if, in accordance with the assessment of the institution of the place of
residence, the conditions set out in the second sentence of Article 24(2) of
this Convention are not met in the State of residence of the insured person,
or if the same treatment can be provided in the competent State itself, within
a time-limit which is medically justifiable, taking into account the current
state of health and the probable course of illness of the person concerned.

  The competent institution shall inform the institution of the place of
residence of its decision.

  In the absence of a reply within the deadlines set by its national
legislation, the authorisation shall be considered to have been granted by the
competent institution.     3     If an insured person who does not reside in
the competent State is in need of urgent vitally necessary treatment, and the
authorisation cannot be refused in accordance with the second sentence of
Article 24(2) of this Convention, the authorisation shall be granted by the
institution of the place of residence on behalf of the competent institution,
which shall be immediately informed by the institution of the place of
residence.

  The competent institution shall accept the findings and the treatment
options of the doctors approved by the institution of the place of residence
that issues the authorisation, concerning the need for urgent vitally
necessary treatment.     4     At any time during the procedure granting the
authorisation, the competent institution shall retain the right to have the
insured person examined by a doctor of its own choice in the State of stay or
residence.         5     The institution of the place of stay shall, without
prejudice to any decision regarding authorisation, inform the competent
institution if it appears medically appropriate to supplement the treatment
covered by the existing authorisation.         Meeting the cost of benefits in
kind incurred by the insured person             6     Without prejudice to
paragraph (7), Article 22(4) and (5) of this Annex apply  mutatis mutandis .
7     If the insured person has actually borne all or part of the costs for
the authorised medical treatment themselves and the costs which the competent
institution is obliged to reimburse to the institution of the place of stay or
to the insured person according to paragraph (6) (actual cost) are lower than
the costs which it would have had to assume for the same treatment in the
competent State (notional cost), the competent institution shall reimburse,
upon request, the cost of treatment incurred by the insured person up to the
amount by which the notional cost exceeds the actual cost. The reimbursed sum
may not, however, exceed the costs actually incurred by the insured person and
may take account of the amount which the insured person would have had to pay
if the treatment had been delivered in the competent State.         Meeting
the cost of travel and stay as part of scheduled treatment             8
Where the national legislation of the competent institution provides for the
reimbursement of the costs of travel and stay which are inseparable from the
treatment of the insured person, such costs for the person concerned and, if
necessary, for a person who must accompany them, shall be assumed by this
institution when an authorisation is granted in the case of treatment in
another State.         Family Members             9     Paragraphs (1) to (8)
apply  mutatis mutandis  to the members of the family of the insured person.
ARTICLE 24       Cash benefits relating to incapacity for work in the event of
stay or residence in a State other than the competent State
Procedure to be followed by the insured person             1     If the
legislation of the competent State requires that the insured person presents a
certificate in order to be entitled to cash benefits relating to incapacity
for work pursuant to Article 25(1) of this Convention, the insured person
shall ask the doctor of the State of residence who established that person’s
state of health to certify their incapacity for work and its probable
duration.         2     The insured person shall send the certificate to the
competent institution within the time limit laid down by the legislation of
the competent State.         3     Where the doctors providing treatment in
the State of residence do not issue certificates of incapacity for work, and
where such certificates are required under the legislation of the competent
State, the person concerned shall apply directly to the institution of the
place of residence. That institution shall immediately arrange for a medical
assessment of the person’s incapacity for work and for the certificate
referred to in paragraph (1) to be drawn up. The certificate shall be
forwarded to the competent institution forthwith.         4     The forwarding
of the document referred to in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) shall not exempt
the insured person from fulfilling the obligations provided for by the
applicable legislation, in particular with regard to that person’s employer.
Where appropriate, the employer or the competent institution may call upon the
employee to participate in activities designed to promote and assist their
return to employment.         Procedure to be followed by the institution of
the State of residence             5     At the request of the competent
institution, the institution of the place of residence shall carry out any
necessary administrative checks or medical examinations of the person
concerned in accordance with the legislation applied by this latter
institution. The report of the examining doctor concerning, in particular, the
probable duration of the incapacity for work, shall be forwarded without delay
by the institution of the place of residence to the competent institution.
Procedure to be followed by the competent institution             6     The
competent institution shall reserve the right to have the insured person
examined by a doctor of its choice.         7     Without prejudice to the
second sentence of Article 25(1) of this Convention, the competent institution
shall pay the cash benefits directly to the person concerned and shall, where
necessary, inform the institution of the place of residence thereof.         8
For the purposes of the application of Article 25(1) of this Convention, the
particulars of the certificate of incapacity for work of an insured person
drawn up in another State on the basis of the medical findings of the
examining doctor or institution shall have the same legal value as a
certificate drawn up in the competent State.         9     If the competent
institution refuses the cash benefits, it shall notify its decision to the
insured person and at the same time to the institution of the place of
residence.         Procedure in the event of a stay in a State other than the
competent State             10     Paragraphs (1) to (9) apply  mutatis
mutandis  when the insured person stays in a State other than the competent
State.             ARTICLE 25       Contributions by pensioners

  If a person receives a pension from more than one State, the amount of
contributions deducted from all the pensions paid shall, under no
circumstances, be greater than the amount deducted in respect of a person who
receives the same amount of pension from the competent State.
CHAPTER 2       BENEFITS IN RESPECT OF ACCIDENTS AT WORK AND OCCUPATIONAL
DISEASES                     ARTICLE 26       Right to benefits in kind and in
cash in the event of residence or stay in a State other than the competent
State             1     For the purposes of the application of Article 37 of
this Convention, the procedures laid down in Articles 21 to 24 of this Annex
apply  mutatis mutandis .         2     When providing special benefits in
kind in connection with accidents at work and occupational diseases under the
national legislation of the State of stay or residence, the institution of
that State shall without delay inform the competent institution.
ARTICLE 27       Procedure in the event of an accident at work or occupational
disease which occurs in a State other than the competent State
1     If an accident at work occurs or an occupational disease is diagnosed
for the first time in a State other than the competent State, the declaration
or notification of the accident at work or the occupational disease, where the
declaration or notification exists under national legislation, shall be
carried out in accordance with the legislation of the competent State, without
prejudice, where appropriate, to any other applicable legal provisions in
force in the State in which the accident at work occurred or in which the
first medical diagnosis of the occupational disease was made, which remain
applicable in such cases. The declaration or notification shall be addressed
to the competent institution.         2     The institution of the State in
the territory of which the accident at work occurred or in which the
occupational disease was first diagnosed, shall notify the competent
institution of medical certificates drawn up in the territory of that State.
3     Where, as a result of an accident while travelling to or from work which
occurs in the territory of a State other than the competent State, an inquiry
is necessary in the territory of the first State in order to determine any
entitlement to relevant benefits, a person may be appointed for that purpose
by the competent institution, which shall inform the authorities of that
State. The institutions shall cooperate with each other in order to assess all
relevant information and to consult the reports and any other documents
relating to the accident.         4     Following treatment, a detailed report
accompanied by medical certificates relating to the permanent consequences of
the accident or disease, in particular the injured person’s present state and
the recovery or stabilisation of injuries, shall be sent upon request of the
competent institution. The relevant fees shall be paid by the institution of
the place of residence or of stay, where appropriate, at the rate applied by
that institution to the charge of the competent institution.         5     At
the request of the institution of the place of residence or stay, where
appropriate, the competent institution shall notify it of the decision setting
the date for the recovery or stabilisation of injuries and, where appropriate,
the decision concerning the granting of a pension.             ARTICLE 28
Disputes concerning the occupational nature of the accident or disease
1     Where the competent institution disputes the application of the
legislation relating to accidents at work or occupational diseases under
Article 37(2) of this Convention, it shall without delay inform the
institution of the place of residence or stay which provided the benefits in
kind, which will then be considered as sickness insurance benefits.         2
When a final decision has been taken on that subject, the competent
institution shall, without delay, inform the institution of the place of
residence or stay which provided the benefits in kind.

  Where an accident at work or occupational disease is not established,
benefits in kind shall continue to be provided as sickness benefits if the
person concerned is entitled to them.

  Where an accident at work or occupational disease is established, sickness
benefits in kind provided to the person concerned shall be considered as
accident at work or occupational disease benefits from the date on which the
accident at work occurred or the occupational disease was first medically
diagnosed.     3     Article 6(6) of this Annex applies  mutatis mutandis .
ARTICLE 29       Procedure in the event of exposure to the risk of an
occupational disease in two or more States                 1     In the case
referred to in Article 39 of this Convention, the declaration or notification
of the occupational disease shall be sent to the competent institution for
occupational diseases of the last State under the legislation of which the
person concerned pursued an activity likely to cause that disease.

  When the institution to which the declaration or notification was sent
establishes that an activity likely to cause the occupational disease in
question was last pursued under the legislation of another State, it shall
send the declaration or notification and all accompanying certificates to the
equivalent institution in that State.     2     Where the institution of the
last State under the legislation of which the person concerned pursued an
activity likely to cause the occupational disease in question establishes that
the person concerned or their survivors do not meet the requirements of that
legislation,  inter alia , because the person concerned had never pursued in
that State an activity which caused the occupational disease or because that
State does not recognise the occupational nature of the disease, that
institution shall forward without delay the declaration or notification and
all accompanying certificates, including the findings and reports of medical
examinations performed by the first institution to the institution of the
previous State under the legislation of which the person concerned pursued an
activity likely to cause the occupational disease in question.         3
Where appropriate, the institutions shall reiterate the procedure set out in
paragraph (2) going back as far as the equivalent institution in the State
under whose legislation the person concerned first pursued an activity likely
to cause the occupational disease in question.             ARTICLE 30
Exchange of information between institutions and advance payments in the event
of an appeal against rejection                 1     In the event of an appeal
against a decision to refuse benefits taken by the institution of a State
under the legislation of which the person concerned pursued an activity likely
to cause the occupational disease in question, that institution shall inform
the institution to which the declaration or notification was sent, in
accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 29(2) of this Annex, and
shall subsequently inform it when a final decision is reached.         2
Where a person is entitled to benefits under the legislation applied by the
institution to which the declaration or notification was sent, that
institution shall make the advance payments, the amount of which shall be
determined, where appropriate, after consulting the institution which made the
decision against which the appeal was lodged, and in such a way that
overpayments are avoided. The latter institution shall reimburse the advance
payments made if, as a result of the appeal, it is obliged to provide those
benefits. That amount will then be deducted from the benefits due to the
person concerned, in accordance with the procedure provided for in Articles 55
and 56 of this Annex.         3     Article 6(6) of this Annex applies
mutatis mutandis .             ARTICLE 31       Aggravation of an occupational
disease

  In the cases covered by Article 40 of this Convention, the claimant must
provide the institution in the State from which they are claiming entitlement
to benefits with details concerning benefits previously granted for the
occupational disease in question. That institution may contact any other
previously competent institution in order to obtain the information it
considers necessary.             ARTICLE 32       Assessment of the degree of
incapacity in the event of occupational accidents or diseases which occurred
previously or subsequently

  Where a previous or subsequent incapacity for work was caused by an accident
which occurred when the person concerned was subject to the legislation of a
State which makes no distinction according to the origin of the incapacity to
work, the competent institution or the body designated by the competent
authority of the State in question shall:     a     upon request by the
competent institution of another State, provide information concerning the
degree of the previous or subsequent incapacity for work, and where possible,
information making it possible to determine whether the incapacity is the
result of an accident at work within the meaning of the legislation applied by
the institution in another State;         b     take into account the degree
of incapacity caused by these previous or subsequent cases when determining
the right to benefits and the amount, in accordance with the applicable
legislation.             ARTICLE 33       Submission and investigation of
claims for pensions or supplementary allowances

  In order to receive a pension or supplementary allowance under the
legislation of a State, the person concerned or their survivors residing in
the territory of another State shall submit, where appropriate, a claim either
to the competent institution or to the institution of the place of residence,
which shall send it to the competent institution.

  The claim shall contain the information required under the legislation
applied by the competent institution.             CHAPTER 3       DEATH GRANTS
ARTICLE 34       Claim for death grants

  For the purposes of Articles 43 and 44 of this Convention, the claim for
death grants shall be sent either to the competent institution or to the
institution of the claimant’s place of residence, which shall send it to the
competent institution.

  The claim shall contain the information required under the legislation
applied by the competent institution.             CHAPTER 4       INVALIDITY
BENEFITS AND OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS’ PENSIONS                     ARTICLE 35
Additional provisions for the calculation of the benefit             1     For
the purposes of calculating the theoretical amount and the actual amount of
the benefit in accordance with Article 51(1)(b) of this Convention, the rules
provided for in Article 11(3) to (6) of this Annex apply.         2     Where
periods of voluntary or optional continued insurance have not been taken into
account under Article 11(3) of this Annex, the institution of the State under
whose legislation those periods were completed shall calculate the amount
corresponding to those periods under the legislation it applies. The actual
amount of the benefit, calculated in accordance with Article 51(1)(b) of this
Convention, shall be increased by the amount corresponding to periods of
voluntary or optional continued insurance.         3     The institution of
each State shall calculate, under the legislation it applies, the amount due
corresponding to periods of voluntary or optional continued insurance which,
under Article 52(3)(c) of this Convention, shall not be subject to another
State’s rules relating to withdrawal, reduction or suspension.

  Where the legislation applied by the competent institution does not allow it
to determine this amount directly, on the grounds that that legislation
allocates different values to insurance periods, a notional amount may be
established. The Joint Administrative Committee shall lay down the detailed
arrangements for the determination of that notional amount.
ARTICLE 36       Claim for benefits                   Submission of claims for
old-age and survivors’ pensions           1     The claimant shall submit a
claim to the institution of their place of residence or to the institution of
the last State whose legislation was applicable. If the person concerned was
not, at any time, subject to the legislation applied by the institution of the
place of residence, that institution shall forward the claim to the
institution of the last State whose legislation was applicable.         2
The date of submission of the claim shall apply in all the institutions
concerned.         3     By way of derogation from paragraph (2), if the
claimant does not, despite having been asked to do so, notify the fact that
they have been employed or has resided in other States, the date on which the
claimant completes their initial claim or submits a new claim for their
missing periods of employment or/and residence in a State shall be considered
as the date of submission of the claim to the institution applying the
legislation in question, subject to more favourable provisions of that
legislation.             ARTICLE 37       Certificates and information to be
submitted with the claim by the claimant                 1     The claim shall
be submitted by the claimant in accordance with the provisions of the
legislation applied by the institution referred to in Article 36(1) of this
Annex and be accompanied by the supporting documents required by that
legislation. In particular, the claimant shall supply all available relevant
information and supporting documents relating to periods of insurance
(institutions, identification numbers), employment (employers) or self-
employment (nature and place of activity) and residence (addresses) which may
have been completed under other legislation, as well as the length of those
periods.         2     Where, in accordance with Article 49(1) of this
Convention, the claimant requests deferment of the award of old-age benefits
under the legislation of one or more States, the claimant shall state that in
their claim and specify under which legislation the deferment is requested. In
order to enable the claimant to exercise that right, the institutions
concerned shall, upon the request of the claimant, notify the claimant of all
the information available to the institutions so that the claimant can assess
the consequences of concurrent or successive awards of benefits which they
might claim.         3     Should the claimant withdraw a claim for benefits
provided for under the legislation of a particular State, that withdrawal
shall not be considered as a concurrent withdrawal of claims for benefits
under the legislation of another State.             ARTICLE 38
Investigation of claims by the institutions concerned
Contact institution               1     The institution to which the claim for
benefits is submitted or forwarded in accordance with Article 36(1) of this
Annex shall be referred to hereinafter as the “contact institution”. The
institution of the place of residence shall not be referred to as the contact
institution if the person concerned has not, at any time, been subject to the
legislation which that institution applies.         2     In addition to
investigating the claim for benefits under the legislation which it applies,
that institution shall, in its capacity as contact institution, promote the
exchange of data, the communication of decisions and the operations necessary
for the investigation of the claim by the institutions concerned, and supply
the claimant, upon request, with any information relevant to the aspects of
the investigation which arise under this Convention, and keep the claimant
informed of its progress.         Investigation of claims for old-age and
survivors’ pensions             3     The contact institution shall, without
delay, send claims for benefits and all the documents which it has available
and, where appropriate, the relevant documents supplied by the claimant to all
the institutions in question so that they can all start the investigation of
the claim concurrently. The contact institution shall notify the other
institutions of periods of insurance or residence subject to its legislation.
It shall also indicate which documents shall be submitted at a later date and
supplement the claim as soon as possible.         4     Each of the
institutions in question shall notify the contact institution and the other
institutions in question, as soon as possible, of the periods of insurance or
residence subject to their legislation.         5     Each of the institutions
in question shall calculate the amount of benefits in accordance with Article
51 of this Convention and shall notify the contact institution and the other
institutions concerned of its decision, of the amount of benefits due and of
any information required for the purposes of Articles 52 to 54 of this
Convention.         6     Should an institution establish, on the basis of the
information referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this Article, that
Article 56(2) or (3) of this Convention is applicable, it shall inform the
contact institution and the other institutions concerned.             ARTICLE
39       Notification of decisions to the claimant

  Each institution shall notify the claimant of the decision it has taken in
accordance with the applicable legislation. Each decision shall specify the
remedies and periods allowed for appeals.             ARTICLE 40
Determination of the degree of invalidity

  Each institution shall, in accordance with its legislation, have the
possibility of having the claimant examined by a medical doctor or other
expert of its choice to determine the degree of invalidity. However, the
institution of a State shall take into consideration documents, medical
reports and administrative information collected by the institution of any
other State as if they had been drawn up in its own territory.
ARTICLE 41       Provisional instalments and advance payment of a benefit
1     Notwithstanding Article 7 of this Annex, any institution which
establishes, while investigating a claim for benefits, that the claimant is
entitled to an independent benefit under the applicable legislation, in
accordance with Article 51(1)(a) of this Convention, shall pay that benefit
without delay. That payment shall be considered provisional if the amount
might be affected by the result of the claim investigation procedure.
2     Whenever it is evident from the information available that the claimant
is entitled to a payment from an institution under Article 51(1)(b) of this
Convention, that institution shall make an advance payment, the amount of
which shall be as close as possible to the amount which will probably be paid
under Article 51(1)(b) of this Convention.         3     Each institution
which is obliged to pay the provisional benefits or advance payment under
paragraph (1) or (2) shall inform the claimant without delay, specifically
drawing the claimant’s attention to the provisional nature of the measure and
any rights of appeal in accordance with its legislation.             ARTICLE
42       New calculation of benefits                 1     Where there is a
new calculation of benefits in accordance with Article 49(4) and Article 57(1)
of this Convention, Article 41 of this Annex shall apply  mutatis mutandis .
2     Where there is a new calculation, withdrawal or suspension of the
benefit, the institution which took the decision shall inform the person
concerned without delay and shall inform each of the institutions in respect
of which the person concerned has an entitlement.             ARTICLE 43
Measures intended to accelerate the pension calculation process
1     In order to facilitate and accelerate the investigation of claims and
the payment of benefits, the institutions to whose legislation a person has
been subject shall:     a     exchange with or make available to institutions
of other States the elements for identifying persons who change from one
applicable national legislation to another, and together ensure that those
identification elements are retained and correspond, or, failing that, provide
those persons with the means to access their identification elements directly;
b     sufficiently in advance of the minimum age for commencing pension rights
or before an age to be determined by national legislation, exchange with or
make available to the person concerned and to institutions of other States
information (periods completed or other important elements) on the pension
entitlements of persons who have changed from one applicable legislation to
another or, failing that, inform those persons of, or provide them with, the
means of familiarising themselves with their prospective benefit entitlement.
2     For the purposes of paragraph (1), the Joint Administrative Committee
shall agree the elements of information to be exchanged or made available and
shall establish the appropriate procedures and mechanisms, taking account of
the characteristics, administrative and technical organisation, and the
technological means at the disposal of national pension schemes. The Joint
Administrative Committee shall ensure the implementation of those pension
schemes by organising a follow-up to the measures taken and their application.
3     For the purposes of paragraph (1), the institution in the first State
where a person is allocated a Personal Identification Number (PIN) for the
purposes of social security administration should be provided with the
information referred to in this Article.             ARTICLE 44
Coordination measures in the States

  Without prejudice to Article 50 of this Convention, where national
legislation includes rules for determining the institution responsible or the
scheme applicable or for designating periods of insurance to a specific
scheme, those rules shall be applied, taking into account only periods of
insurance completed under the legislation of the State concerned.
CHAPTER 5       UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS                     ARTICLE 45
Aggregation of periods and calculation of benefits             1     Article
11(1) of this Annex applies  mutatis mutandis  to Article 58 of this
Convention. Without prejudice to the underlying obligations of the
institutions involved, the person concerned may submit to the competent
institution a document issued by the institution of the State to whose
legislation they were subject in respect of that person’s last activity as an
employed or self-employed person specifying the periods completed under that
legislation.         2     For the purpose of applying Article 59 of this
Convention, the competent institution of a State whose legislation provides
that the calculation of benefits varies with the number of members of the
family shall also take into account the members of the family of the person
concerned residing in another State as if they resided in the competent State.
This provision shall not apply where, in the State of residence of members of
the family, another person is entitled to unemployment benefits calculated on
the basis of the number of members of the family.             TITLE IV
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS                     CHAPTER 1       REIMBURSEMENT OF THE
COST OF BENEFITS IN APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 36 AND ARTICLE 42 OF THIS
CONVENTION                     SECTION 1       REIMBURSEMENT ON THE BASIS OF
ACTUAL EXPENDITURE                     ARTICLE 46       Principles
1     For the purpose of applying Articles 36 and 42 of this Convention, the
actual amount of the expenses for benefits in kind, as shown in the accounts
of the institution that provided them, shall be reimbursed to that institution
by the competent institution, except where Article 56 of this Annex is
applicable.         2     If any or part of the actual amount of the expenses
for benefits referred to in paragraph (1) is not shown in the accounts of the
institution that provided them, the amount to be refunded shall be determined
on the basis of a lump-sum payment calculated from all the appropriate
references obtained from the data available. The Joint Administrative
Committee shall agree the bases to be used for calculation of the lump-sum
payment and shall decide the amount thereof.         3     Higher rates than
those applicable to the benefits in kind provided to insured persons subject
to the legislation applied by the institution providing the benefits referred
to in paragraph (1) may not be taken into account in the reimbursement.
SECTION 2       REIMBURSEMENT ON THE BASIS OF FIXED AMOUNTS
ARTICLE 47       Identification of the State(s) concerned                 1
The States referred to in Article 36(2) of this Convention, whose legal or
administrative structures are such that the use of reimbursement on the basis
of actual expenditure is not appropriate, are listed in Appendix 2 of this
Annex.         2     In the case of the States listed in Appendix 2 of this
Annex, the amount of benefits in kind supplied to:     a     family members
who do not reside in the same State as the insured person, as provided for in
Article 21 of this Convention; and to         b     pensioners and members of
their family, as provided for in Article 28(1), Article 29 and Article 30 of
this Convention,

  shall be reimbursed by the competent institutions to the institutions
providing those benefits, on the basis of a fixed amount established for each
calendar year. This fixed amount shall be as close as possible to actual
expenditure.             ARTICLE 48       Calculation method of the monthly
fixed amounts and the total fixed amount             1     For each creditor
State, the monthly fixed amount per person (Fi) for a calendar year shall be
determined by dividing the annual average cost per person (Yi), broken down by
age group (i), by 12 and by applying a reduction (X) to the result in
accordance with the following formula:

  Fi = Yi*1/12*(1-X)

  Where:          the index ( i  = 1, 2 and 3) represents the three age groups
used for calculating the fixed amounts:           i  = 1: persons aged under
20,           i  = 2: persons aged from 20 to 64,           i  = 3: persons
aged 65 and over,           Yi  represents the annual average cost per person
in age group i, as defined in paragraph (2),           the coefficient X (0.20
or 0.15) represents the reduction as defined in paragraph (3).           2
The annual average cost per person ( Yi ) in age group  i  shall be obtained
by dividing the annual expenditure on all benefits in kind provided by the
institutions of the creditor State to all persons in the age group concerned
subject to its legislation and residing within its territory by the average
number of persons concerned in that age group in the calendar year in
question.         3     The reduction to be applied to the monthly fixed
amount shall, in principle, be equal to 20% ( X  = 0.20). It shall be equal to
15% ( X  = 0.15) for pensioners and members of their family where the
competent State is not listed in Appendix 2 of this Annex.         4     For
each debtor State, the total fixed amount for a calendar year shall be the sum
of the products obtained by multiplying, in each age group  i , the determined
monthly fixed amounts per person by the number of months completed by the
persons concerned in the creditor State in that age group.

  The number of months completed by the persons concerned in the creditor
State shall be the sum of the calendar months in a calendar year during which
the persons concerned were, because of their residence in the territory of the
creditor State, eligible to receive benefits in kind in that territory at the
expense of the debtor State. Those months shall be determined from an
inventory kept for that purpose by the institution of the place of residence,
based on documentary evidence of the entitlement of the beneficiaries supplied
by the competent institution.     5     The Joint Administrative Committee may
present a proposal containing any amendments which may prove necessary in
order to ensure that the calculation of fixed amounts comes as close as
possible to the actual expenditure incurred and the reductions referred to in
paragraph (3) do not result in unbalanced payments or double payments for the
States.         6     The Joint Administrative Committee shall establish the
methods for determining the elements for calculating the fixed amounts
referred to in this Article.             ARTICLE 49       Notification of
annual average costs

  The annual average cost per person in each age group for a specific year
shall be notified to the Joint Administrative Committee at the latest by the
end of the second year following the year in question. If the notification is
not made by this deadline, the annual average cost per person which the Joint
Administrative Committee has last determined for a previous year will be
taken.             SECTION 3       COMMON PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 50       Procedure for reimbursement between institutions
1     Reimbursements between the States shall be made as promptly as possible.
Every institution concerned shall be obliged to reimburse claims before the
deadlines mentioned in this Section, as soon as it is in a position to do so.
A dispute concerning a particular claim shall not hinder the reimbursement of
another claim or other claims.         2     The reimbursements between the
institutions of the EEA EFTA States and the United Kingdom, provided for in
Articles 36 and 42 of this Convention, shall be made via the liaison body.
There may be a separate liaison body for reimbursements under Articles 36 and
42 of this Convention.             ARTICLE 51       Deadlines for the
introduction and settlement of claims                 1     Claims based on
actual expenditure shall be introduced to the liaison body of the debtor State
within 12 months of the end of the calendar half-year during which those
claims were recorded in the accounts of the creditor institution.         2
Claims for fixed amounts for a calendar year shall be introduced to the
liaison body of the debtor State within the 12-month period following the
month during which the average costs for the year concerned were approved by
the Joint Administrative Committee. The inventories referred to in Article
48(4) of this Annex shall be presented by the end of the year following the
reference year.         3     In the case referred to in Article 6(6) of this
Annex, the deadline set out in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall
not start before the competent institution has been identified.         4
Claims introduced after the deadlines specified in paragraphs (1) and (2)
shall not be considered.         5     The claims shall be paid to the liaison
body of the creditor State referred to in Article 50 of this Annex by the
debtor institution within 18 months of the end of the month during which they
were introduced to the liaison body of the debtor State. This does not apply
to the claims which the debtor institution has rejected for a relevant reason
within that period.         6     Any disputes concerning a claim shall be
settled, at the latest, within 36 months following the month in which the
claim was introduced.         7     The Joint Administrative Committee shall
facilitate the final closing of accounts in cases where a settlement cannot be
reached within the period set out in paragraph (6), and, upon a reasoned
request by one of the parties in the dispute, shall give its opinion on a
dispute within six months following the month in which the matter was referred
to it.             ARTICLE 52       Interest on late payments and down
payments                 1     From the end of the 18-month period set out in
Article 51(5) of this Annex, interest can be charged by the creditor
institution on outstanding claims, unless the debtor institution has made,
within six months of the end of the month during which the claim was
introduced, a down payment of at least 90% of the total claim introduced
pursuant to Article 51(1) or (2) of this Annex. For those parts of the claim
not covered by the down payment, interest may be charged only from the end of
the 36-month period set out in Article 51(6) of this Annex.         2     The
interest shall be calculated on the basis of the reference rate agreed by the
Joint Administrative Committee. The reference rate applicable shall be that in
force on the first day of the month on which the payment is due.         3
No liaison body shall be obliged to accept a down payment as provided for in
paragraph (1). If however, a liaison body declines such an offer, the creditor
institution shall no longer be entitled to charge interest on late payments
related to the claims in question other than under the second sentence of
paragraph (1).             ARTICLE 53       Statement of Annual Accounts

  The States shall notify each other of the amount of the claims introduced,
settled or contested (creditor position) and the amount of claims received,
settled or contested (debtor position).             CHAPTER 2       RECOVERY
OF BENEFITS PROVIDED BUT NOT DUE, RECOVERY OF PROVISIONAL PAYMENTS AND
CONTRIBUTIONS, OFFSETTING AND ASSISTANCE WITH RECOVERY
SECTION 1       PRINCIPLES                     ARTICLE 54       Common
provisions

  For the purposes of applying Article 67 of this Convention and within the
framework defined therein, the recovery of claims shall, wherever possible, be
by way of offsetting either between the institutions of the States concerned,
or vis-à-vis the natural or legal person concerned in accordance with Articles
55 to 57 of this Annex. If it is not possible to recover all or any of the
claim via this offsetting procedure, the remainder of the amount due shall be
recovered in accordance with Articles 58 to 68 of this Annex.
SECTION 2       OFFSETTING                     ARTICLE 55       Benefits
received unduly             1     If the institution of a State has paid undue
benefits to a person, that institution may, within the terms and limits laid
down in the legislation it applies, request the institution of the State
responsible for paying benefits to the person concerned to deduct the undue
amount from arrears or on-going payments owed to the person concerned
regardless of the social security branch under which the benefit is paid. The
institution of the latter State shall deduct the amount concerned subject to
the conditions and limits applying to this kind of offsetting procedure in
accordance with the legislation it applies in the same way as if it had made
the overpayments itself, and shall transfer the amount deducted to the
institution that has paid undue benefits.         2     By way of derogation
from paragraph (1), if, when awarding or reviewing benefits in respect of
invalidity benefits, old-age and survivors’ pensions pursuant to Chapters 3
and 4 of Title III of this Convention, the institution of a State has paid to
a person benefits of undue sum, that institution may request the institution
of the State responsible for the payment of corresponding benefits to the
person concerned to deduct the amount overpaid from the arrears payable to the
person concerned. After the latter institution has informed the institution
that has paid an undue sum of these arrears, the institution which has paid
the undue sum shall within two months communicate the amount of the undue sum.
If the institution which is due to pay arrears receives that communication
within the deadline it shall transfer the amount deducted to the institution
which has paid undue sums. If the deadline expires, that institution shall
without delay pay out the arrears to the person concerned.         3     If a
person has received social welfare assistance in one State during a period in
which they were entitled to benefits under the legislation of another State,
the body which provided the assistance may, if it is legally entitled to
reclaim the benefits due to the person concerned, request the institution of
any other State responsible for paying benefits in favour of the person
concerned to deduct the amount of assistance paid from the amounts which that
State pays to the person concerned.

  This provision applies  mutatis mutandis  to any family member of a person
concerned who has received assistance in the territory of a State during a
period in which the insured person was entitled to benefits under the
legislation of another State in respect of that family member.

  The institution of a State which has paid an undue amount of assistance
shall send a statement of the amount due to the institution of the other
State, which shall then deduct the amount, subject to the conditions and
limits laid down for this kind of offsetting procedure in accordance with the
legislation it applies, and transfer the amount without delay to the
institution that has paid the undue amount.             ARTICLE 56
Provisionally paid benefits in cash or contributions             1     For the
purposes of applying Article 6 of this Annex, at the latest three months after
the applicable legislation has been determined or the institution responsible
for paying the benefits has been identified, the institution which
provisionally paid the cash benefits shall draw up a statement of the amount
provisionally paid and shall send it to the institution identified as being
competent.

  The institution identified as being competent for paying the benefits shall
deduct the amount due in respect of the provisional payment from the arrears
of the corresponding benefits it owes to the person concerned and shall
without delay transfer the amount deducted to the institution which
provisionally paid the cash benefits.

  If the amount of provisionally paid benefits exceeds the amount of arrears,
or if arrears do not exist, the institution identified as being competent
shall deduct this amount from ongoing payments subject to the conditions and
limits applying to this kind of offsetting procedure under the legislation it
applies, and without delay transfer the amount deducted to the institution
which provisionally paid the cash benefits.     2     The institution which
has provisionally received contributions from a legal or natural person shall
not reimburse the amounts in question to the person who paid them until it has
ascertained from the institution identified as being competent the sums due to
it under Article 6(4) of this Annex.

  Upon request of the institution identified as being competent, which shall
be made at the latest three months after the applicable legislation has been
determined, the institution that has provisionally received contributions
shall transfer them to the institution identified as being competent for that
period for the purpose of settling the situation concerning the contributions
owed by the legal or natural person to it. The contributions transferred shall
be retroactively deemed as having been paid to the institution identified as
being competent.

  If the amount of provisionally paid contributions exceeds the amount the
legal or natural person owes to the institution identified as being competent,
the institution which provisionally received contributions shall reimburse the
amount in excess to the legal or natural person concerned.             ARTICLE
57       Costs related to offsetting

  No costs are payable where the debt is recovered via the offsetting
procedure provided for in Articles 55 and 56 of this Annex.
SECTION 3       RECOVERY                     ARTICLE 58       Definitions and
common provisions             1     For the purposes of this Section:     a
“ claim ” means all claims relating to contributions or to benefits paid or
provided unduly, including interest, fines, administrative penalties and all
other charges and costs connected with the claim in accordance with the
legislation of the State making the claim;         b     “ applicant party ”
means, in respect of each State, any institution which makes a request for
information, notification or recovery concerning a claim as defined above;
c     “ requested party ” means, in respect of each State, any institution to
which a request for information, notification or recovery can be made.
2     Requests and any related communications between the States shall, in
general, be addressed via designated institutions.         3     Practical
implementation measures, including, among others, those related to Article 4
of this Annex and to setting a minimum threshold for the amounts for which a
request for recovery can be made, shall be taken by the Joint Administrative
Committee.             ARTICLE 59       Requests for information
1     At the request of the applicant party, the requested party shall provide
any information which would be useful to the applicant party in the recovery
of its claim.         2     In order to obtain that information, the requested
party shall make use of the powers provided for under the laws, regulations or
administrative practices applying to the recovery of similar claims arising in
its own State. The request for information from the applicant party shall
indicate the name, last known address, and any other relevant information
relating to the identification of the legal or natural person concerned to
whom the information to be provided relates and the nature and amount of the
claim in respect of which the request is made.         3     The requested
party shall not be obliged to supply information:     a     which it would not
be able to obtain for the purpose of recovering similar claims arising in its
own territory;         b     which would disclose any commercial, industrial
or professional secrets; or         c     the disclosure of which would be
liable to prejudice the security of or be contrary to the public policy of a
State.             4     The requested party shall inform the applicant party
of the grounds for refusing a request for information.             ARTICLE 60
Notification                 1     The requested party shall, at the request
of the applicant party, and in accordance with the rules in force for the
notification of similar instruments or decisions in its own territory, notify
the addressee of all instruments and decisions, including those of a judicial
nature, which come from the State of the applicant party and which relate to a
claim or to its recovery.         2     The request for notification shall
indicate the name, address and any other relevant information relating to the
identification of the addressee concerned to which the applicant party
normally has access, the nature and the subject of the instrument or decision
to be notified and, if necessary the name, address and any other relevant
information relating to the identification of the debtor and the claim to
which the instrument or decision relates, and any other useful information.
3     The requested party shall without delay inform the applicant party of
the action taken on its request for notification and, particularly, of the
date on which the decision or instrument was forwarded to the addressee.
ARTICLE 61       Request for recovery                 1     At the request of
the applicant party, the requested party shall recover claims that are the
subject of an instrument permitting enforcement issued by the applicant party
to the extent permitted by and in accordance with the laws and administrative
practices in force in the State of the requested party.         2     The
applicant party may only make a request for recovery if:     a     it also
provides to the requested party an official or certified copy of the
instrument permitting enforcement of the claim in the State of the applicant
party;         b     the claim or instrument permitting its enforcement are
not contested in its own State;         c     it has, in its own State,
applied appropriate recovery procedures available to it on the basis of the
instrument referred to in paragraph (1), and the measures taken will not
result in the payment in full of the claim;         d     the period of
limitation according to its own legislation has not expired.             3
The request for recovery shall indicate:     a     the name, address and any
other relevant information relating to the identification of the natural or
legal person concerned or to the identification of any third party holding
that person’s assets;         b     the name, address and any other relevant
information relating to the identification of the applicant party;         c
a reference to the instrument permitting its enforcement, issued in the State
of the applicant party;         d     the nature and amount of the claim,
including the principal, interest, fines, administrative penalties and all
other charges and costs due indicated in the currencies of the State(s) of the
applicant and requested parties;         e     the date of notification of the
instrument to the addressee by the applicant party or by the requested party;
f     the date from which and the period during which enforcement is possible
under the laws in force in the State of the applicant party;         g     any
other relevant information.             4     The request for recovery shall
also contain a declaration by the applicant party confirming that the
conditions laid down in paragraph (2) have been fulfilled.         5     The
applicant party shall forward to the requested party any relevant information
relating to the matter which gave rise to the request for recovery, as soon as
this comes to its knowledge.             ARTICLE 62       Instrument
permitting enforcement of recovery                 1     In accordance with
Article 67(2) of this Convention, the instrument permitting enforcement of the
claim shall be directly recognised and treated automatically as an instrument
permitting the enforcement of a claim of the State of the requested party.
2     Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the instrument permitting enforcement of
the claim may, where appropriate and in accordance with the provisions in
force in the State of the requested party, be accepted as, recognised as,
supplemented with, or replaced by an instrument authorising enforcement in the
territory of that State.         3     Within three months of the date of
receipt of the request for recovery, the State(s) shall endeavour to complete
the acceptance, recognition, supplementing or replacement, except in cases
where paragraph (4) applies. States may not refuse to complete these actions
where the instrument permitting enforcement is properly drawn up. The
requested party shall inform the applicant party of the grounds for exceeding
the three-month period.         4     If any of these actions should give rise
to a dispute in connection with the claim or the instrument permitting
enforcement issued by the applicant party, Article 64 of this Annex shall
apply.             ARTICLE 63       Payment arrangements and deadline
1     Claims shall be recovered in the currency of the State of the requested
party. The entire amount of the claim that is recovered by the requested party
shall be remitted by the requested party to the applicant party.         2
The requested party may, where the laws, regulations or administrative
provisions in force in its own State so permit, and after consulting the
applicant party, allow the debtor time to pay or authorise payment by
instalment. Any interest charged by the requested party in respect of such
extra time to pay shall also be remitted to the applicant party.         3
From the date on which the instrument permitting enforcement of the recovery
of the claim has been directly recognised in accordance with Article 62(1) of
this Annex or accepted, recognised, supplemented or replaced in accordance
with Article 62(2) of this Annex, interest shall be charged for late payment
under the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force in the
State of the requested party and shall also be remitted to the applicant
party.             ARTICLE 64       Contestation concerning the claim or the
instrument permitting enforcement of its recovery and contestation concerning
enforcement measures                 1     If, in the course of the recovery
procedure, the claim or the instrument permitting its enforcement issued in
the State of the applicant party are contested by an interested party, the
action shall be brought by this party before the appropriate authorities of
the State of the applicant party, in accordance with the laws in force in that
State. The applicant party shall without delay notify the requested party of
this action. The interested party may also inform the requested party of the
action.         2     As soon as the requested party has received the
notification or information referred to in paragraph (1) either from the
applicant party or from the interested party, it shall suspend the enforcement
procedure pending the decision of the appropriate authority in the matter,
unless the applicant party requests otherwise in accordance with the second
sub-paragraph of this paragraph. Should the requested party deem it necessary,
and without prejudice to Article 67 of this Annex, it may take precautionary
measures to guarantee recovery insofar as the laws or regulations in force in
its own State allow such action for similar claims.

  Notwithstanding the first sub-paragraph, the applicant party may, in
accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative practices in force in
its own State, request the requested party to recover a contested claim,
insofar as the relevant laws, regulations and administrative practices in
force in the requested party’s State allow such action. If the result of the
contestation is subsequently favourable to the debtor, the applicant party
shall be liable for the reimbursement of any sums recovered, together with any
compensation due, in accordance with the legislation in force in the requested
party’s State.     3     Where the contestation concerns enforcement measures
taken in the State of the requested party, the action shall be brought before
the appropriate authority of that State in accordance with its laws and
regulations.         4     Where the appropriate authority before which the
action is brought in accordance with paragraph (1) is a judicial or
administrative tribunal, the decision of that tribunal, insofar as it is
favourable to the applicant party and permits recovery of the claim in the
State of the applicant party, shall constitute the “instrument permitting
enforcement” within the meaning of Articles 61 and 62 of this Annex and the
recovery of the claim shall proceed on the basis of that decision.
ARTICLE 65       Limits applying to assistance                 1     The
requested party shall not be obliged:     a     to grant the assistance
provided for in Articles 61 to 64 of this Annex, if recovery of the claim
would, because of the situation of the debtor, create serious economic or
social difficulties in the State of the requested party, insofar as the laws,
regulations or administrative practices in force in the State of the requested
party allow such action for similar national claims;         b     to grant
the assistance provided for in Articles 59 to 64 of this Annex, if the initial
request under Articles 59 to 61 of this Annex applies to claims more than five
years old, dating from the moment the instrument permitting the recovery was
established in accordance with the laws, regulations or administrative
practices in force in the State of the applicant party at the date of the
request. However, if the claim or instrument is contested, the time limit
begins from the moment that the State of the applicant party establishes that
the claim or the enforcement order permitting recovery may no longer be
contested.             2     The requested party shall inform the applicant
party of the grounds for refusing a request for assistance.
ARTICLE 66       Periods of limitation                 1     Questions
concerning periods of limitation shall be governed as follows:     a     by
the laws in force in the State of the applicant party, insofar as they concern
the claim or the instrument permitting its enforcement; and         b     by
the laws in force in the State of the requested party, insofar as they concern
enforcement measures in the requested State.

  Periods of limitation according to the laws in force in the State of the
requested party shall start from the date of direct recognition or from the
date of acceptance, recognition, supplementing or replacement in accordance
with Article 62 of this Annex.     2     Steps taken in the recovery of claims
by the requested party in pursuance of a request for assistance, which, if
they had been carried out by the applicant party, would have had the effect of
suspending or interrupting the period of limitation according to the laws in
force in the State of the applicant party, shall be deemed to have been taken
in the latter, insofar as that effect is concerned.             ARTICLE 67
Precautionary measures                 1     Upon reasoned request by the
applicant party, the requested party shall take precautionary measures to
ensure recovery of a claim insofar as the laws and regulations in force in the
State of the requested party so permit.         2     For the purposes of
implementing the first paragraph, the provisions and procedures laid down in
Articles 61, 62, 64 and 65 of this Annex apply  mutatis mutandis .
ARTICLE 68       Costs related to recovery                 1     The requested
party shall recover from the natural or legal person concerned and retain any
costs linked to recovery which it incurs, in accordance with the laws and
regulations of the State of the requested party that apply to similar claims.
2     Mutual assistance afforded under this Section shall, as a rule, be free
of charge. However, where recovery poses a specific problem or concerns a very
large amount in costs, the applicant and the requested parties may agree on
reimbursement arrangements specific to the cases in question.         3
The State of the applicant party shall remain liable to the State of the
requested party for any costs and any losses incurred as a result of actions
held to be unfounded, as far as either the substance of the claim or the
validity of the instrument issued by the applicant party is concerned.
TITLE V       MISCELLANEOUS, TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 69       Medical examination and administrative checks
1     Without prejudice to other provisions, where a recipient or a claimant
of benefits, or a member of that person’s family, is staying or residing
within the territory of a State other than that in which the debtor
institution is located, the medical examination shall be carried out, at the
request of that institution, by the institution of the beneficiary’s place of
stay or residence in accordance with the procedures laid down by the
legislation applied by that institution.

  The debtor institution shall inform the institution of the place of stay or
residence of any special requirements, if necessary, to be followed and points
to be covered by the medical examination.     2     The institution of the
place of stay or residence shall forward a report to the debtor institution
that requested the medical examination. This institution shall be bound by the
findings of the institution of the place of stay or residence.

  The debtor institution shall reserve the right to have the beneficiary
examined by a doctor of its choice. However, the beneficiary may be asked to
return to the State of the debtor institution only if the beneficiary is able
to make the journey without prejudice to that person’s health and the cost of
travel and accommodation is paid for by the debtor institution.     3
Where a recipient or a claimant of benefits, or a member of that person’s
family, is staying or residing in the territory of a State other than that in
which the debtor institution is located, the administrative check shall, at
the request of the debtor institution, be performed by the institution of the
beneficiary’s place of stay or residence.

  Paragraph (2) shall also apply in this case.     4     As an exception to
the principle of free-of-charge mutual administrative cooperation in Article
60(3) of this Convention, the effective amount of the expenses of the checks
referred to in this Article shall be refunded to the institution which was
requested to carry them out by the debtor institution which requested them.
ARTICLE 70       Notifications                 1     The States shall notify
the Joint Administrative Committee of the details of the bodies and entities
defined in Article 1 of this Convention and of the institutions designated in
accordance with this Annex.         2     The bodies specified in paragraph
(1) shall be provided with an electronic identity in the form of an
identification code and electronic address.         3     The Joint
Administrative Committee shall agree the structure, content and detailed
arrangements, including the common format and model, for notification of the
details specified in paragraph (1).         4     The States shall be
responsible for keeping the information specified in paragraph (1) up to date.
ARTICLE 71       Currency conversion

  For the purposes of this Convention and this Annex, the exchange rates
between currencies shall be the reference rates published by the financial
institution designated for this purpose by the Joint Administrative Committee.
The date to be taken into account for determining the exchange rates shall be
fixed by the Joint Administrative Committee.             ARTICLE 72
Implementing provisions

  The Joint Administrative Committee may adopt further guidance on the
implementation of this Convention and of this Annex.             ARTICLE 73
Interim provisions for forms and documents

  For an interim period, the end date of which shall be agreed by the Joint
Administrative Committee, all forms and documents issued by the competent
institutions in the format used immediately before this Convention comes into
force shall be valid for the purposes of implementing this Convention and,
where appropriate, shall continue to be used for the exchange of information
between competent institutions. All such forms and documents issued before and
during that interim period shall be valid until their expiry or cancellation.
APPENDIX 1       ENTITLEMENT DOCUMENT       (Article 23 and 31(1) of this
Convention and Article 22 of this Annex)             1     Entitlement
documents valid for the purposes of Articles 23 and 31(1) of this Convention
and Article 22 of this Annex shall contain the following data:     a
surname and forename of the document holder;         b     personal
identification number of the document holder;         c     date of birth of
the document holder;         d     expiry date of the document;         e
the code “UK” in lieu of the ISO code of the United Kingdom, or the ISO code
for the State in question, as the case may be;         f     identification
and acronym of the competent institution issuing the document;         g
logical number of the document;         h     in the case of a provisional
document, the date of issue and date of delivery of the document, and the
signature and stamp of the competent institution.             2     The
technical specifications of entitlement documents shall be agreed by the
States through the Joint Administrative Committee in order to facilitate the
acceptance of the respective documents by institutions of the States providing
the benefits in kind.             APPENDIX 2       STATES CLAIMING THE
REIMBURSEMENT OF THE COST OF BENEFITS IN KIND ON THE BASIS OF FIXED AMOUNTS
(Article 36(2) of this Convention and Article 47 of this Annex)
NORWAY       UNITED KINGDOM             ANNEX 2       CERTAIN BENEFITS IN CASH
TO WHICH THIS CONVENTION SHALL NOT APPLY                     PART 1
SPECIAL NON-CONTRIBUTORY CASH BENEFITS       (Article 6(5)(a) of this
Convention)               ICELAND       Additional social support for the
elderly (Act No 74/2020 of 3 July 2020).       LIECHTENSTEIN     a
Maternity allowances (Maternity Allowances Act of 25 November 1981 as
amended);         b     Supplementary benefits to the old-age, survivors’ and
invalidity insurance (Supplementary Benefits to the Old-Age, Survivors’ and
Invalidity Insurance Act of 10 December 1965 as amended).           NORWAY
a     Guaranteed minimum benefits to persons who are born disabled or become
disabled at an early age pursuant to Chapters 12, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the
National Insurance Act of 28 February 1997;         b     Special benefits in
accordance with the Act of 29 April  2005 No. 21  on supplementary allowance
to persons with short periods of residence in Norway.           UNITED KINGDOM
a     State Pension Credit (State Pension Credit Act 2002 and State Pension
Credit Act (Northern Ireland) 2002);         b     Income-based allowances for
jobseekers (Jobseekers Act 1995 and Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995);
c     Disability Living Allowance, mobility component (Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 and Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992);         d     Personal Independence
Payment, mobility component (Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Part 4) and Welfare
Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Part 5));         e     Employment and
Support Allowance Income-related (Welfare Reform Act 2007 and Welfare Reform
Act (Northern Ireland) 2007);         f     Best Start Foods payment (Welfare
Foods (Best Start Foods) (Scotland) Regulations 2019 ( SSI 2019/193 ));
g     Best Start Grants (pregnancy and baby grant, early learning grant,
school-age grant) (The Early Years Assistance (Best Start Grants) (Scotland)
Regulations 2018 ( SSI 2018/370 ));         h     Funeral Support Payment
(Funeral Expense Assistance (Scotland) Regulations 2019 ( SSI 2019/292 ));
i     Scottish Child Payment (The Scottish Child Payment Regulations 2020 (
SSI 2020/351 ));         j     Child Disability Payment, mobility component
(The Disability Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland)
Regulations 2021 ( SSI 2021/174 )).             PART 2       LONG-TERM CARE
BENEFITS       (Article 6(5)(d) of this Convention)
LIECHTENSTEIN     a     Helpless allowance according to Art. 3bis of the
Supplementary Benefits for Old-age, Survivors’ and Invalidity Insurance Act of
10 December 1965 as amended;         b     Support and Care Allowance
according to Art. 3octies of the Supplementary Benefits for Old-age,
Survivors’ and Invalidity Insurance Act of 10 December 1965 as amended;
c     Home care for pensioners with low income according to Art. 2 paragraph 4
lit. e and h of the Supplementary Benefits for Old-age, Survivors’ and
Invalidity Insurance Act of 10 December 1965 as amended;         d
Helpless allowance according to Art. 26 of the Compulsory Accident Insurance
Act of 28 November 1989 as amended;         e     Allowances for blind persons
(Granting of Allowances for Blind Persons Act of 17 December 1970 as amended).
NORWAY     a     Basic Benefit pursuant to Chapter 6 of the National Insurance
Act of 28 February 1997;         b     Attendance Benefit pursuant to Chapter
6 of the National Insurance Act of 28 February 1997;         c     Care
Benefit pursuant to Chapter 9 of the National Insurance Act of 28 February
1997;         d     Attendance Allowance pursuant to Chapter 9 of the National
Insurance Act of 28 February 1997;         e     Training Allowance pursuant
to Chapter 9 of the National Insurance Act of 28 February 1997.
UNITED KINGDOM     a     Attendance Allowance (Social Security Contributions
and Benefits Act 1992, Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations
1991, Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992
and Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
1992);         b     Carer’s Allowance (Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992, The Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations
1976, Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992)
and The Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1976;         c     Disability Living Allowance, care component
(Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, Social Security
(Disability Living Allowance) Regulations 1991, Social Security Contributions
and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 and Social Security (Disability
Living Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992);         d     Personal
Independence Payment, daily living component (Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Part
4), Social Security (Personal Independence Payment) Regulations 2013, The
Personal Independence Payment (Transitional Provisions) Regulations 2013,
Personal Independence Payment (Transitional Provisions) (Amendment)
Regulations 2019, Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Part 5), The
Personal Independence Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016, The
Personal Independence Payment (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 and Personal Independence Payment (Transitional Provisions)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2019;         e     Carer’s
Allowance Supplement (The Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018);         f
Young Carer’s Grant (The Carer’s Assistance (Young Carer Grants) (Scotland)
Regulations 2019 ( SSI 2019/324 ));         g     Child Winter Heating
Assistance (The Winter Heating Assistance for Children and Young People
(Scotland) Regulations 2020 ( SSI 2020/352 ));         h     Child Disability
Payment, care component (The Disability Assistance for Children and Young
People (Scotland) Regulations 2021 ( SSI 2021/174 )).             PART 3
PAYMENTS WHICH ARE CONNECTED TO A BRANCH OF SOCIAL SECURITY LISTED IN ARTICLE
6(1) OF THIS CONVENTION AND WHICH ARE PAID TO MEET EXPENSES FOR HEATING IN
COLD WEATHER       (Article 6(5)(f) of this Convention)
ICELAND       None.       LIECHTENSTEIN       None.       NORWAY       None.
UNITED KINGDOM       Winter Fuel Payment (Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992, Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2000, Social
Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 and Social
Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000).
ANNEX 3       RESTRICTION OF RIGHTS TO BENEFITS IN KIND FOR MEMBERS OF THE
FAMILY OF A FRONTIER WORKER       (Article 22(2) of this Convention)
ICELAND       NORWAY       UNITED KINGDOM             ANNEX 4       MORE
RIGHTS FOR PENSIONERS RETURNING TO THE COMPETENT STATE       (Article 31(2) of
this Convention)               ICELAND       LIECHTENSTEIN       UNITED
KINGDOM             ANNEX 5       CASES IN WHICH THE  PRO RATA  CALCULATION
SHALL BE WAIVED OR SHALL NOT APPLY       (Article 51(4) and (5) of this
Convention)                     PART 1       CASES IN WHICH THE  PRO RATA
CALCULATION SHALL BE WAIVED PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 51(4) OF THIS CONVENTION
ICELAND       All applications from the old-age scheme according to the Act on
Social Security No 100/2007.       LIECHTENSTEIN       All applications for
old-age, survivors’ and invalidity pensions under the basic scheme (Old-age
and Survivors’ Insurance Act of 14 December 1952 as amended and Invalidity
Insurance Act of 23 December 1959 as amended).       NORWAY       All
applications for old-age pension.       UNITED KINGDOM       All applications
for retirement pension, state pension pursuant to Part 1 of the Pensions Act
2014, widows’ and bereavement benefits, with the exception of those for which
during a tax year beginning on or after 6 April 1975:     i     the person
concerned had completed periods of insurance, employment or residence under
the legislation of the United Kingdom and another State; and one (or more) of
the tax years was not considered a qualifying year within the meaning of the
legislation of the United Kingdom;         ii     the periods of insurance
completed under the legislation in force in the United Kingdom for the periods
prior to 5 July 1948 would be taken into account for the purposes of sub-
paragraph (b) of Article 51(1) of this Convention by application of the
periods of insurance, employment or residence under the legislation of another
State.           All applications for additional pension pursuant to the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, section 44, and the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992,
section 44.             PART 2       CASES IN WHICH ARTICLE 51(5) OF THIS
CONVENTION APPLIES               ICELAND       Old-age employment pension
scheme.       LIECHTENSTEIN       None.       NORWAY       Old-age income
pension pursuant to Chapter 20 of the National Insurance Act of 28 February
1997 and supplementary benefits pursuant to Chapter 17 of the National
Insurance Act of 28 February 1997.       UNITED KINGDOM       Graduated
retirement benefits paid pursuant to the National Insurance Act 1965, sections
36 and 37, and the National Insurance Act (Northern Ireland) 1966, sections 35
and 36.             ANNEX 6       BENEFITS AND AGREEMENTS WHICH ALLOW THE
APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 53 OF THIS CONVENTION                 1     Benefits
referred to in Article 53(2)(a) of this Convention, the amount of which is
independent of the length of periods of insurance or residence completed.
ICELAND       Child pension in accordance with the Act on Social Security No
100/2007, and child pension in accordance with the Act on Mandatory Pension
Insurance and on the Activities of Pension Funds No 129/1997.
LIECHTENSTEIN       None.       NORWAY       None.       UNITED KINGDOM
None.         2     Benefits referred to in Article 53(2)(b) of this
Convention, the amount of which is determined by reference to a credited
period deemed to have been completed between the date on which the risk
materialised and a later date.       ICELAND       None.       LIECHTENSTEIN
None.       NORWAY       None.       UNITED KINGDOM       None.         3
Agreements referred to in Article 53(2)(b)(i) of this Convention intended to
prevent the same credited period being taken into account two or more times.
ICELAND       None.       LIECHTENSTEIN       None.       NORWAY       None.
UNITED KINGDOM       None.             ANNEX 7       SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR
THE APPLICATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE STATES       (Article 6(3), Article
55(1) and Article 69 of this Convention)               ICELAND     1       a
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 of this Convention, persons who
have not been gainfully employed in one or more of the States are entitled to
an Icelandic social pension only if they have been, or have previously been,
permanent residents of Iceland for at least three years, subject to the age
limits prescribed by Icelandic legislation.         b     The above mentioned
provisions do not apply to Icelandic social pension entitlement for the
members of the family of persons who are or have been gainfully employed in
Iceland, or for students or the members of their families.             2
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 of this Convention, and paragraph
1(a) and (b) of this Annex, entitlement to invalidity pension according to the
Act on Social Security No. 100/2007 shall under this Convention only arise
when a person has completed Icelandic periods of insurance totalling at least
one year at the time of the materialisation of the risk.
LIECHTENSTEIN       Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 of this
Convention, entitlement to invalidity pensions under the basic scheme
according to the Invalidity Insurance Act of 23 December 1959 under this
Convention shall only arise when a person has completed periods of insurance
in Liechtenstein totalling at least one year at the time of the
materialisation of the risk.       NORWAY     1     The transitional
provisions of the Norwegian legislation entailing a reduction of the insurance
period which is required for a full supplementary pension for persons born
before 1937 shall be applicable to persons covered by the Convention provided
that they have been residents of Norway, or engaged in gainful occupation as
employed or self-employed in Norway, for such a number of years as is required
after their sixteenth birthday and before 1 January 1967. This requirement
shall be one year for each year the person’s year of birth falls before 1937.
2     Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 of this Convention and
paragraph 3(a) and (b) of this Annex, entitlement to Disability Benefit
pursuant to Chapter 12 of the National Insurance Act of 28 February 1997 shall
under this Convention only arise when a person has completed Norwegian periods
of insurance totalling at least one year at the time of the materialisation of
the risk.         3       a     Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10
of this Convention, persons who have not been gainfully employed in one or
more States are entitled to a Norwegian social pension only if they have been,
or have previously been, permanent residents of Norway for at least five years
at the time of the materialisation of the risk, subject to the age limits
prescribed by Norwegian legislation.         b     The above mentioned
provisions do not apply to Norwegian social pension entitlement for the
members of the family of persons who are or have been gainfully employed in
Norway, or for students or the members of their families.             4
Article 11(a), Article 25(1) and Article 32 of this Convention shall not apply
to Work Assessment Allowance pursuant to Chapter 11 of the National Insurance
Act of 28 February 1997.         5     Article 11(a) of this Convention shall
not apply to Birth Allowance in case of delivery at home pursuant to Section
5-13 of the National Insurance Act of 28 February 1997.         6     Article
11(a) of this Convention shall not apply to benefits provided under the
special provisions concerning benefits to refugees. These benefits shall be
provided only on the conditions specified in the legislation of Norway.
UNITED KINGDOM     1     Where, in accordance with United Kingdom legislation,
a person may be entitled to a retirement pension if:     a     the
contributions of a former spouse are taken into account as if they were that
person’s own contributions; or         b     the relevant contribution
conditions are satisfied by that person’s spouse or former spouse, then
provided, in each case, that the spouse or former spouse is or had been
exercising an activity as an employed or self-employed person, and had been
subject to the legislation of two or more States, the provisions of Chapter 5
of Title III of this Convention shall apply in order to determine entitlement
under United Kingdom legislation. In that case, references in Articles 49 to
57 of this Convention to “ periods of insurance ” shall be construed as
references to periods of insurance completed by:     i     a spouse or former
spouse where a claim is made by:         a married woman, or           a
person whose marriage has terminated otherwise than by the death of the
spouse; or               ii     a former spouse, where a claim is made by:
a widower who immediately before pensionable age is not entitled to a widowed
parent’s allowance, or           a widow who immediately before pensionable
age is not entitled to a widowed mother’s allowance, widowed parent’s
allowance or widow’s pension, or who is only entitled to an age-related
widow’s pension calculated pursuant to Article 51(1)(b) of this Convention,
and for this purpose ‘age related widow’s pension’ means a widow’s pension
payable at a reduced rate in accordance with section 39(4) of the Social
Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992.                       2     For
the purposes of Article 11 of this Convention in the case of old-age or
survivors’ cash benefits, pensions for accidents at work or occupational
diseases and death grants, any beneficiary under United Kingdom legislation
who is staying in the territory of another State shall, during that stay, be
considered as if they resided in the territory of that other State.         3
a     For the purpose of calculating an earnings factor in order to determine
entitlement to benefits under United Kingdom legislation, for each week of
activity as an employed person under the legislation of another State, and
which commenced during the relevant income tax year within the meaning of
United Kingdom legislation, the person concerned shall be deemed to have paid
contributions as an employed earner, or have earnings on which contributions
have been paid, on the basis of earnings equivalent to two-thirds of that
year’s upper earnings limit.         b     For the purposes of Article
51(1)(b) of this Convention, where:     i     in any income tax year starting
on or after 6 April 1975, a person carrying out activity as an employed person
has completed periods of insurance, employment or residence exclusively in
another State, and the application of paragraph (3)(a) results in that year
being counted as a qualifying year within the meaning of United Kingdom
legislation for the purposes of Article 51(1)(b)(i) of this Convention, they
shall be deemed to have been insured for 52 weeks in that year in that other
State;         ii     any income tax year starting on or after 6 April 1975
does not count as a qualifying year within the meaning of United Kingdom
legislation for the purposes of Article 51(1)(b)(i) of this Convention, any
periods of insurance, employment or residence completed in that year shall be
disregarded.             c     For the purpose of converting an earnings
factor into periods of insurance, the earnings factor achieved in the relevant
income tax year within the meaning of United Kingdom legislation shall be
divided by that year’s lower earnings limit. The result shall be expressed as
a whole number, any remaining fraction being ignored. The figure so calculated
shall be treated as representing the number of weeks of insurance completed
under United Kingdom legislation during that year, provided that such figure
shall not exceed the number of weeks during which in that year the person was
subject to that legislation.         d     Where receipt of Widowed Parent’s
Allowance or Bereavement Support Payment (higher rate) is contingent on
entitlement to UK Child Benefit, a person meeting all other eligibility
criteria, and who would be eligible to receive UK Child Benefit if they, or
the relevant child, were resident in the UK, will not be prevented from
claiming Widowed Parent’s Allowance or Bereavement Support Payment (higher
rate) in accordance with this Convention, notwithstanding the fact that UK
Child Benefit is excluded from the material scope of this Convention under
Article 6(5)(g).

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision for the modification of certain social security
legislation, so as to give effect to the Convention on Social Security
Coordination between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom
of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, signed
at London on 30th June 2023 (“ the Convention ”).

  It also varies the Social Security (Iceland) Order (Northern Ireland) 1985 (
S.R. 1985 No. 205 ) and the Social Security (Norway) Order (Northern Ireland)
1991 ( S.R. 1991 No. 139 ) in accordance with Article 78 (Relationship with
pre-existing Social Security Coordination Agreements) of the Convention, so
far as they relate to Northern Ireland.

  This Order has effect from the date on which the Convention enters into
force in accordance with Article 74 (Entry into force) of the Convention.
Article 74 provides that the States shall notify the Depositary in writing of
completion of their respective internal requirements and procedures for entry
into force of the Convention. The Convention shall enter into force in
relation to those States which have notified the Depositary, on the first day
of the month following the later of the dates on which the Depositary receives
the notifications of at least one EEA EFTA State and the United Kingdom. Where
an EEA EFTA State notifies the Depositary after this date, the Convention
shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date on
which the Depositary receives that State’s notification.

  This Order does not impose any costs on business, charities or the voluntary
sector. A Tax Information and Impact Note has not been prepared for this
instrument as it gives effect to previously announced policy.

