Title: The Alcoholic Products (Excise Duty) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations provide for a single excise duty system for alcoholic products generally, consolidating and replacing the various systems used for individual alcoholic products. Duty is based on the volume and strength of the finished product. These Regulations also make provision for reliefs from excise duty.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/806

## The Alcoholic Products (Excise Duty) Regulations 2023

Excise

Made 14th July 2023

Laid before the House of Commons 17th July 2023

Coming into force 1st August 2023

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs make these Regulations
in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 45(3) and (4), 55(1)(d),
88(1), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (j), (k) and (m) and (2)(c) to (e), 92(1)(d)
and 118(1) to (3) of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 .

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Alcoholic Products (Excise Duty)
Regulations 2023 and come into force on 1st August 2023.

1.2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023;           “ actual
strength method ” means ascertaining the strength of an alcoholic product in
accordance with Schedule 2;           “ large pack ” means a container  that
is intended to contain a volume of more than 10 litres but not more than 400
litres;           “ volume production limit condition ” has the meaning given
in regulation 9.

### Alcoholic strength

#### The volume of alcoholic product in any container

2

2.1

For the purposes of Part 2 of the Act, except where paragraph (4) applies, the
volume of alcoholic product in any container is to be ascertained in
accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

2.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the volume of alcoholic product in any container is
to be ascertained by reference to—

2.2.a

the label of the container of the alcoholic product,

2.2.b

any invoice issued in relation to the alcoholic product,

2.2.c

any delivery note issued in relation to the alcoholic product, and

2.2.d

any document similar to an invoice or delivery note issued in relation to the
alcoholic product.

2.3

Where the volumes ascertained by reference to the sources described in
paragraph (2)(a) to (d) differ, the volume of alcoholic product in any
container is to be taken to be the greater of those volumes.

2.4

Where—

2.4.a

a large pack does not meet the tolerance requirements set out in Schedule 1,
or

2.4.b

due care has not been taken to ensure that the volume of an alcoholic product
ascertained in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) accurately represents
its actual volume,

the volume of alcoholic product in the container is to be taken to be the
actual volume of alcoholic product with which the container is filled.

2.5

The Commissioners  must publish a notice making provision for the purposes of
paragraph (4)(b) about the meaning of “due care”.

2.6

Whether due care has been taken for the purposes of paragraph (4)(b) is to be
ascertained in accordance with a notice published under paragraph (5).

#### The strength of alcoholic product

3

3.1

For the purposes of Part 2 of the Act, except where paragraph (6) applies, the
strength of an alcoholic product is to be ascertained in accordance with
paragraphs to (2) to (5).

3.2

Paragraphs (3) and (4) apply to cask-conditioned alcoholic products or any
unfinished alcoholic products.

3.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the strength of a cask-conditioned alcoholic product
or any unfinished alcoholic product is to be—

3.3.a

the strength the producer of the alcoholic product reasonably expects it to
have when sold by retail or otherwise supplied for consumption,

3.3.b

ascertained by reference to the label of the container of the alcoholic
product,

3.3.c

ascertained by reference to any invoice issued in relation to the alcoholic
product,

3.3.d

ascertained by reference to any delivery note issued in relation to the
alcoholic product, and

3.3.e

ascertained by reference to any document similar to an invoice or delivery
note issued in relation to the alcoholic product.

3.4

Where the strengths ascertained by reference to the sources described in
paragraph (3)(a) to (e) differ, the strength of a cask-conditioned alcoholic
product or any unfinished alcoholic product is to be taken to be the greater
of those strengths.

3.5

In the case of any alcoholic product to which paragraphs (3) and (4) do not
apply, its strength is to be ascertained—

3.5.a

by reference to the label of the container of the alcoholic product,

3.5.b

if there is no label on the container of the alcoholic product, by reference
to any other document relating to the container, or

3.5.c

if there is no label on the container of the alcoholic product and it is not
possible to ascertain the strength by reference to a document relating to the
container, using the actual strength method.

3.6

Where due care has not been taken to ensure that the strength of an alcoholic
product ascertained in accordance with paragraphs (3) to (5)(b) accurately
represents its actual strength, the strength of the alcoholic product is to be
ascertained using the actual strength method.

3.7

The Commissioners must publish a notice making provision for the purposes of
paragraph (6) about the meaning of “due care”.

3.8

Whether due care has been taken for the purposes of paragraph (6) is to be
ascertained in accordance with a notice published under paragraph (7).

3.9

A notice published under paragraph (7) may make provision by reference to
specified factors or documentation.

3.10

In this regulation—

      “ cask-conditioned alcoholic product ” means any alcoholic product which
undergoes fermentation in the container from which it is served for
consumption, but does not include alcoholic product served for consumption
from containers of such type as may be specified in a notice published by the
Commissioners;           “ producer ” means a person approved under section 82
of the Act (approval requirement: producers);           “ unfinished alcoholic
product ” means any alcoholic product in any stage of production before it has
reached the state of maturity at which it is fit for consumption.

#### Assessments where incorrectly low rate of alcohol duty applied

4

4.1

This regulation applies if—

4.1.a

alcohol duty  is charged on alcoholic products,

4.1.b

the duty is charged on the basis of strength ascertained in accordance with
regulation 3(3) to 3(5)(b), and

4.1.c

the strength is to be ascertained using the actual strength method.

4.2

The Commissioners—

4.2.a

may assess as being alcohol duty due from the liable person an amount equal to
any duty shortfall, and

4.2.b

must notify that person or that person’s representative of any assessment
under sub-paragraph (a).

4.3

In this regulation “ duty shortfall ” means any difference between—

4.3.a

the actual amount of alcohol duty chargeable on the alcoholic product, and

4.3.b

the lower amount that, at the excise duty point , was charged as a result of
ascertaining strength in accordance with regulation 3(3) to 3(5)(b).

4.4

The reference in paragraph (2) to the “ liable person ” is a reference to the
person liable to pay the alcohol duty on the alcoholic products.

### Reliefs

#### Relief from duty for undrinkable sediment

5

5.1

This regulation applies to undrinkable sediment.

5.2

Undrinkable sediment is relieved at the excise duty point from alcohol duty.

5.3

Relief given under this regulation is subject to any conditions specified in a
notice published by the Commissioners.

5.4

In this regulation—

“ cask-conditioned alcoholic product ” means alcoholic product which undergoes
fermentation in the cask from which it is served for consumption; “
undrinkable sediment ” means such part of a cask-conditioned alcoholic product
as cannot be consumed.

#### Grower’s domestic consumption relief

6

6.1

Wine  and other fermented product  may without payment of alcohol duty be sent
out from an alcoholic product production premises for the domestic consumption
of the grower of the ingredients from which the wine or other fermented
product is produced.

6.2

Cider  made from fruit grown by the producer may without payment of alcohol
duty be sent out from the producer’s alcoholic product production premises for
consumption—

6.2.a

domestically, by the producer, or

6.2.b

free of charge by agricultural workers employed by the producer.

6.3

Relief given under this regulation is subject to any conditions specified in a
notice published by the Commissioners.

6.4

In this regulation—

“ alcoholic product production premises ” means any premises, rooms, places
and vessels on or in which cider, wine or other fermented product is made by a
producer for use in their trade as producer; “ fruit ” includes honey produced
by bees; “ grower ” includes beekeeper and “ grown ” is to be construed
accordingly; “ producer ” means a producer of cider, wine or other fermented
product who is approved under section 82 of the Act (approval requirement:
producers).

#### Draught relief – information to be provided

7

7.1

This regulation applies if—

7.1.a

a person liable to pay alcohol duty on qualifying draught products  has
elected for duty to be charged at the full rates , and

7.1.b

there has been a supply by one person (a “supplier”) to another person (a
“recipient”) of those qualifying draught products.

7.2

Information or documents evidencing that duty has been charged at the full
rates must be provided by the supplier to the recipient at or before the time
of the supply described in paragraph (1)(b).

7.3

The Commissioners may specify in a notice information or documents they
consider sufficient evidence for the purposes of paragraph (2).

7.4

If the Commissioners publish a notice under paragraph (3), they must determine
whether evidence is sufficient for the purposes of paragraph (2) in accordance
with that notice.

#### Small producer relief – the volume production limit condition

8

8.1

This regulation applies where alcoholic products produced in, or imported
into, Northern Ireland are chargeable to alcohol duty.

8.2

Alcoholic products are not small producer alcoholic products  unless they are
produced on production premises  that meet the volume production limit
condition relevant to that category of products.

9

9.1

The “volume production limit condition” relevant to a category of products is
met in relation to non-group premises  if, in relation to those premises,
neither of the following volumes exceeds the volume production limit specified
for that category of products in paragraph (3)—

9.1.a

the total production volume of that category of products for the previous year
;

9.1.b

the estimated total production volume of that category of products for the
current year .

9.2

The “volume production limit condition” relevant to a category of products is
met in relation to group premises  if neither of the following volumes exceeds
the volume production limit specified for that category of products in
paragraph (3)—

9.2.a

the aggregate of the total production volume of that category of products, in
relation to every set of premises in the production group , for the previous
year;

9.2.b

the aggregate of the estimated total production volume of that category of
products, in relation to every set of premises in the production group, for
the current year.

9.3

The “volume production limit” is, in the case of—

9.3.a

beer, 200,000 hectolitres,

9.3.b

cider or other fermented product, 15,000 hectolitres,

9.3.c

wine, 1,000 hectolitres, and

9.3.d

alcohol contained in spirits, 10 hectolitres.

9.4

In relation to production premises—

9.4.a

the “total production volume” for a production year  is (as the case may be)
the volume of—

9.4.a.i

beer,

9.4.a.ii

cider or other fermented product,

9.4.a.iii

wine, or

9.4.a.iv

alcohol contained in spirits,

produced on those premises in that year, and

9.4.b

the “estimated total production volume” for a production year is the
producer’s reasonable estimate of the total production volume of the relevant
category of products for those premises in that year.

9.5

The references in paragraph (4) to the volume of beer, cider or other
fermented product, wine and alcohol contained in spirits produced on a set of
premises do not include references to volumes that are spoilt or destroyed
before the excise duty point.

9.6

Paragraph (7) applies where premises are in use for the purposes of the
production of alcoholic products for part only (the “relevant part”) of a
production year (including where premises begin to be used for those purposes
part-way through a production year).

9.7

The total production volume or (as the case may be) the estimated total
production volume of a category of products is treated, for the purposes of
this Part, as being the volume given by—

9.7.a

dividing the actual total production volume of that category of products, or
(as the case may be) the estimate of that volume, by the number of days in the
relevant part of the production year, and

9.7.b

multiplying the volume amount given by paragraph (a) by the number of days in
the production year.

9.8

An officer of Revenue and Customs may, if satisfied that the circumstances are
exceptional, agree with a producer that certain alcoholic products, or a
certain volume of alcoholic products, may be disregarded for the purposes of
determining—

9.8.a

the total production volume, or

9.8.b

the estimated total production volume,

in relation to production premises for any production year.

#### Small producer relief – certain removals within the United Kingdom

10

10.1

This regulation applies where—

10.1.a

a person (P) is liable for the payment of alcohol duty chargeable at the
discounted rate  on an alcoholic product produced in, or imported into, Great
Britain,

10.1.b

P intends, and intended from the time the product became so chargeable, to
remove the product to Northern Ireland from Great Britain, and

10.1.c

the product was produced on production premises that did not meet, at the time
of production, the volume production limit condition.

10.2

P may pay duty charged at the standard rate  on the product.

10.3

If P elects to pay alcohol duty in accordance with paragraph (2), P must pay
such amount on or before the date that the payment arising under paragraph
(1)(a) would otherwise become due.

11

11.1

This regulation applies where—

11.1.a

a person (P) is liable for the payment of alcohol duty chargeable at the
standard rate on an alcoholic product produced in, or imported into, Northern
Ireland,

11.1.b

P intends, and intended from the time the product became so chargeable, to
remove the product to Great Britain from Northern Ireland, and

11.1.c

but for the volume production limit condition, alcohol duty would have been
chargeable on the product at the discounted rate.

11.2

P may pay duty charged at the discounted rate on the product.

11.3

If P elects to pay alcohol duty in accordance with paragraph (2), P must pay
such amount on or before the date that the payment arising under paragraph
(1)(a) would otherwise become due.

#### Small producer relief – certificates required for imported alcoholic products

12

12.1

This regulation applies if—

12.1.a

an alcoholic product is imported into the United Kingdom,

12.1.b

alcohol duty is chargeable on that product, and

12.1.c

the importer indicates to the Commissioners that the product is a small
producer alcoholic product on which alcohol duty is charged at the discounted
rate.

12.2

An alcoholic product is not a small producer alcoholic product unless the
importer produces, on request by an officer of Revenue and Customs, a
certificate endorsed by or on behalf of the relevant tax authorities of the
country or territory in which the alcoholic product was produced certifying
whether the product was, at the time of production, eligible to be charged at
the discounted rate in Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

#### Small producer relief – documentation to be provided

13

13.1

Subject to paragraph (3), this regulation applies where—

13.1.a

a person (P) has paid, or is liable for the payment of, alcohol duty at the
discounted rate on an alcoholic product produced in, or imported into, Great
Britain.

13.1.b

any person (the “supplier”) intends to supply the product to any other person
(the “recipient”) in Great Britain,

13.1.c

the supplier does not know whether the product is intended to be consumed in
Great Britain, and

13.1.d

the product was produced on production premises that did not meet, at the time
of production, the volume production limit condition.

13.2

The supplier must provide to the recipient, at or before the time of supply,
documentation confirming—

13.2.a

the amount of alcohol duty that was paid, and rate at which such duty was
paid, on the product, and

13.2.b

that the product was produced on production premises that did not meet, at the
time of production, the volume production limit condition.

13.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply to any supplier other than P where that supplier
has not been provided with the documentation described in paragraph (2).

#### Small producer relief – record-keeping

14

14.1

This regulation applies where a person (P) has paid, or is liable for the
payment of, alcohol duty at the discounted rate on alcoholic products produced
in, or imported into, the United Kingdom.

14.2

P must keep, and make available for inspection by an officer of Revenue and
Customs, records for a period of six years, commencing with the date on which
the products became chargeable to alcohol duty, for the purposes of
determining whether the products were, at the time of production, eligible to
be charged at the discounted rate in Great Britain and Northern Ireland
respectively.

14.3

The Commissioners may publish a notice specifying the records to be kept, and
made available for inspection, for the purposes of paragraph (2).

### Denatured alcohol

#### Denatured alcohol

15

15.1

This regulation applies where a person deals wholesale in denatured alcohol .

15.2

A person may deal wholesale in completely denatured alcohol without an excise
licence.

15.3

In this regulation “ completely denatured alcohol ” has the meaning given in
regulation 4 of the Denatured Alcohol Regulations 2005 .

### Travellers’ allowances

#### Amendment of the Travellers’ Allowances Order 1994

16

In Schedule 2 to the Travellers’ Allowances Order 1994 , in the entry relating
to—

16.a

beer, for “£0.80” substitute  “£0.88” ;

16.b

still wine, for “£2.97” substitute  “£3.28” ;

16.c

sparkling wine, for “£3.81” substitute  “£3.28” ;

16.d

cider, for “£0.40” substitute  “£0.44” ;

16.e

sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength not exceeding 5.5% by volume, for
“£0.40” substitute  “£0.44” ;

16.f

sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength exceeding 5.5% but less than 8.5% by
volume, for “£2.88” substitute  “£1.73” ;

16.g

made-wine, for—

16.g.i

“made-wine” substitute “other fermented products”, and

16.g.ii

“£2.97” substitute “£3.28”;

16.h

spirits, for “£10.77” substitute  “£11.88” .

      Myrtle Lloyd   Joanna Rowland   Two of the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs     14th July 2023

  THE TOLERANCE REQUIREMENTS

Regulation 2

1

1.1

This paragraph applies to large packs filled with a metered or weighed volume
of alcoholic product.

1.2

The tolerance requirement is that the volume of alcoholic product does not
exceed the volume ascertained by reference to the label of that large pack and
any invoice, delivery note or similar document issued in relation to it by
more than the amount set out in sub-paragraph (3).

1.3

The amount referred to in sub-paragraph (2) is—

1.3.a

in the case of a pack intended to contain a volume exceeding 100 litres, 0.5
per cent of that volume, or

1.3.b

in any other case, 0.5 litres.

1.4

Where the sources described in sub-paragraph (2) indicate different volumes,
the volume to be used for the purposes of this paragraph is the greater of
those volumes.

2

2.1

This paragraph applies to large packs filled with a volume of alcoholic
product that is not metered or weighed.

2.2

The tolerance requirement is that the volume of alcoholic product in a large
pack does not exceed the volume ascertained by reference to the label of that
pack and any invoice, delivery note or similar document issued in relation to
it by more than the amount set out in sub-paragraph (3).

2.3

The amount referred to in sub-paragraph (2) is—

2.3.a

in the case of a pack intended to contain a volume exceeding 200 litres, 3
litres,

2.3.b

in the case of a pack intended to contain a volume exceeding 100 litres but
not exceeding 200 litres, 2 litres, or

2.3.c

in any other case, 1 litre.

2.4

Where the sources described in sub-paragraph (2) indicate different volumes,
the volume to be used for the purposes of this paragraph is the greater of
those volumes.

  METHOD OF DETERMINING THE STRENGTH OF ALCOHOLIC PRODUCT

Regulation 1(2)

1

1.1

Except where sub-paragraph (2) applies, the strength of spirits is to be
determined—

1.1.a

by determining the density of the spirits in air at 20 degrees Celsius and
taking the strength of the spirits to be the percentage of alcohol by volume
corresponding to that density in the Laboratory Alcohol Table, provided that
where the density of any spirits determined as mentioned falls between any two
consecutive numbers in that table the strength shall be determined by linear
interpolation, or

1.1.b

using any method that measures the strength of spirits to a level of accuracy
equivalent to, or greater than, that measured by a method set out in sub-
paragraph (a).

1.2

Where spirits contain any substance other than alcohol and water the
Commissioners may either—

1.2.a

require that the strength of the spirits be ascertained by any of the means
prescribed by sub-paragraph (1) after removing from the spirits any such
substance to the extent which they consider necessary by distillation or such
other process as they direct and adding water to replace the volume so
removed, or

1.2.b

allow the strength of the spirits to be ascertained, as though they contained
alcohol and water only, by either of the means prescribed by sub-paragraph
(1).

2

2.1

Except where sub-paragraph (2) applies, the strength of any alcoholic product
other than spirits is to be determined—

2.1.a

in the following manner—

2.1.a.i

a representative sample is to be taken and, after first being cleared of
sediment and gas by filtration, at the temperature of 20 degrees Celsius is to
be distilled,

2.1.a.ii

the distillate is to be made up at the temperature of 20 degrees Celsius with
distilled water to the original measure of the quantity before distillation,

2.1.a.iii

the strength of the distillate made up in accordance with sub-paragraph (ii)
is to be ascertained by determining its density in air at the temperature of
20 degrees Celsius by means of a pycnometer, and

2.1.a.iv

the strength of alcoholic product is to be taken to be the percentage of
alcohol by volume in the Laboratory Alcohol Table which corresponds to the
density determined in accordance with paragraph (iii) except that where the
density so determined is between two consecutive numbers in the table
aforesaid the strength is to be determined by linear interpolation, or

2.1.b

using any method that measures the strength of alcoholic product to a level of
accuracy equivalent to, or greater than, that measured by the method set out
in sub-paragraph (a).

2.2

Where the result ascertained by a method specified in sub-paragraph (1) is
rendered inaccurate by the presence of substances other than alcohol, that
method is to be adjusted for the purpose of producing an accurate result until
such result is produced.

3

In this Schedule “ Laboratory Alcohol Table ” means a table, published on 11th
July 2023, entitled “Laboratory Alcohol Table” showing the relation between
density at 20 degrees Celsius and alcoholic strength of mixtures of ethanol
and water expressed as percentage by volume at 20 degrees Celsius and
percentage by mass .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations provide for a single excise duty system for alcoholic
products generally, consolidating and replacing the various systems used for
individual alcoholic products. Duty is based on the volume and strength of the
finished product. These Regulations also make provision for reliefs from
excise duty.

  Part 1 of these Regulations provides for citation, commencement and
interpretation.

  Part 2 provides for a new system for measuring alcoholic strength.
Regulations 2 and 3 set out the methods for ascertaining the volume and
strength of alcoholic products respectively. Regulation 4 sets out the
circumstances in which and the means by which HMRC may carry out assessments
where an incorrectly low amount of duty has been applied.

  Part 3 makes provision in relation to reliefs from duty. Regulation 5 does
so for undrinkable sediment, regulation 6 for grower’s domestic consumption
relief and regulation 7 for draught relief. Regulations 8 to 14 do so for
small producer relief (specifically as to what constitutes a small producer
alcoholic product in Northern Ireland, how payments of duty may be made where
products are moved between Great Britain and Northern Ireland, documentation
to be provided, and record-keeping.

  Part 4, in regulation 15, makes provision in relation to denatured alcohol.

  Part 5, in regulation 16, makes provision in relation to travellers’
allowances (specifically in relation to rates).

  Schedule 1 provides for the tolerance requirements for large packs filled
with metered or weighed volumes of alcoholic product. Schedule 2 provides for
the method of determining the strength of alcoholic product where due care has
not been taken to ensure that the strength ascertained in accordance with any
of the deeming methods set out in regulation 3 accurately represents the
actual strength of the alcoholic product.

  Any notices referred to in these Regulations will be published at
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/alcohols-notices . A person unable
to access the notices electronically may access them in hard copy by post free
of charge on application to Alcohol Policy, Indirect Tax, HM Revenue &
Customs, Trinity Bridge House, 2 Dearmans Place, Salford, M3 5BS.

  A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument will be published
on the HMRC website at  https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/tax-
information-and-impact-notes-tiins .

