Title: The Public Service (Civil Servants and Others) Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Public Service Pensions Act 2013 (c. 25) (“PSPA 2013”) makes provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “scheme regulations” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2013), about the establishment of public service pension schemes. The Public Service (Civil Servants and Others) Pensions Regulations 2014 (S.I. 2014/1964) (“the 2014 Regulations”) are the scheme regulations establishing alpha, the successor civil service pension scheme to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme (“the PCSPS”). The 2014 Regulations provided for transitional protection for certain cohorts of PCSPS members. This transitional protection was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between civil service pension scheme members on the basis of age.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/942

## The Public Service (Civil Servants and Others) Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations 2023

    Public Service Pensions

  Made   4th September 2023

  Laid before Parliament   6th September 2023

  Coming into force   1st October 2023

      The Minister for the Civil Service makes these Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(a), 2(1) (together with
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2) and 3(1), (2)(a) (as read with paragraph 13 of
Schedule 3) and (c) and (3) of the Public Service Pensions Act 2013  (“ the
2013 Act ”) and sections 5(1) and (5), 6(1), 7(3), 8(1) and (3), 10(1), 11(1)
and (5), 12(1) and (3), 18(1) to (3), (5), (6) and (8), 19(1), (4) and (5),
20(1), (4) and (5), 21, 22(1) and (6), 24(1), 25(1) and (4), 26(1) and (2),
29(1), (7) and (8) and 31(2) and (3) of the Public Service Pensions and
Judicial Offices Act 2022  (“PSPJOA 2022”).       In accordance with section
3(5) of the 2013 Act, these Regulations are made with the consent of the
Treasury.       In accordance with section 21(1) of the 2013 Act, the Minister
for the Civil Service has consulted the representatives of such persons as
appear to the Minister likely to be affected by these Regulations.
To the extent required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022, these Regulations are
made in accordance with Treasury directions made under that section.

### Introductory provisions


#### Citation, commencement and extent


1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Public Service (Civil Servants and Others) Pensions
(Remediable Service) Regulations 2023;

1.b

come into force on 1st October 2023;

1.c

extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation


2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022;           “ the 2014 Regulations ” means the Public Service (Civil
Servants and Others) Pensions Regulations 2014 ;           “ the PSP
Directions 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers,
Compensation and Information) Directions 2022 ;           “ alpha ” means the
pension scheme established by the 2014 Regulations;           “ alpha benefits
” means new scheme benefits  under alpha;           “ civil service scheme ”
means alpha or the PCSPS;           “ deferred choice decision ” has the
meaning given in regulation  12(1) ;           “ deferred choice decision-
maker ” means the person who may make a deferred choice decision under
regulation  12(2) ;           “ deferred choice member ” means a member with
remediable service who is not an immediate choice member;           “ end of
the section 10 election period ”, in relation to a deferred choice member,
means the end of the day determined in accordance with—         where the
member is the deferred choice decision-maker, regulation  13(1)(b) ;
where a person other than the member is the deferred choice decision-maker,
regulation  13(4)(b) ;                 “ immediate choice decision ” has the
meaning given in regulation  8(1) ;           “ immediate choice decision-
maker ” means the person who may make an immediate choice decision under
regulation  8(2) ;           “ immediate choice member ” means a member with
remediable service who, immediately before 1st October 2023, was deceased or
entitled to the present payment of a pension, other than an excluded pension,
under a civil service scheme; and “ excluded pension ” means a pension the
rate of which—         is not determined (by any extent) by reference to the
member’s remediable service, and           is not affected by the coming into
force of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022;                 “ member ” means an
active, deferred, deceased or pensioner, but not a pension credit , member of
a civil service scheme;           “ opted-out service election ” has the
meaning given in regulation  6(1) ;           “ the PCSPS ” means the pension
scheme made under section 1 of the Superannuation Act 1972  which is the
principal civil service pension scheme within the meaning of section 2(10)  of
that Act, and in relation to a member—         “ the PCSPS ” means the Section
of the PCSPS that is the relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme  for the member;
“ PCSPS benefits ” means benefits under the PCSPS;                 “
remediable service ”, in relation to a member, means (except in this
definition) the member’s remediable service  in an employment or office that
is pensionable service under a civil service scheme;           “ remedy member
” means a deferred choice member or an immediate choice member;           “
the scheme manager ” means the Minister for the Civil Service;           “
Section I ” means Section I of the PCSPS;           “ Section II ” means
Section II of the PCSPS;           “ Section III ” means Section III of the
PCSPS;           “ section 6 election ” has the meaning given in regulation
8(1)(a) ;           “ section 10 election ” has the meaning given in
regulation  12(1)(a) .

2.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, a reference in PSPJOA 2022 to section
2(1) of that Act coming into force is to be understood as a reference to that
section coming into force in relation to members of a civil service scheme.

2.3

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.3.a

is defined in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
PSPJOA 2022, and

2.3.b

is not defined differently in these Regulations,

has the meaning given in, or for the purposes of, that provision.

2.4

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.4.a

is defined in the 2014 Regulations, Section I, Section II or Section III (a
“relevant scheme”), and

2.4.b

is not defined differently in—

2.4.b.i

these Regulations, or

2.4.b.ii

in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022,

has, in relation to the relevant scheme, the meaning given in that scheme.

2.5

In these Regulations, a reference to a provision of the PSP Directions 2022 is
a reference to that provision as amended from time to time.

#### Delegation


3

The scheme manager may delegate any functions of the scheme manager under
these Regulations, including this power to delegate.

### Remediable service statements


#### Requirements relating to remediable service statements


4

4.1

The scheme manager must provide a remediable service statement in respect of a
remedy member (“ M ”) in accordance with—

4.1.a

section 29 of PSPJOA 2022,

4.1.b

direction 20 of the PSP Directions 2022, and

4.1.c

this regulation.

4.2

The scheme manager must provide a remediable service statement in respect of
M—

4.2.a

before the relevant date ,

4.2.b

where M is, in relation to their remediable service, for the time being—

4.2.b.i

an active member, at least once in each year ending with the anniversary of
the relevant date;

4.2.b.ii

a deferred member, within three months of receipt of a written request by the
member , and

4.2.c

where M is a deferred choice member, as soon as is reasonably practicable
following receipt of notification—

4.2.c.i

that M intends to claim payment of any pension benefits in relation to M’s
remediable service, or

4.2.c.ii

that M has died.

4.3

The remediable service statement must be provided—

4.3.a

to M, or

4.3.b

where—

4.3.b.i

M is deceased, and

4.3.b.ii

the eligible decision-maker as determined in accordance with the Schedule is a
person other than the scheme manager,

to the person who is for the time being the eligible decision-maker in
relation to M’s remediable service in accordance with the Schedule.

4.4

The remediable service statement must include—

4.4.a

where the scheme manager has determined that any information to be provided in
connection with M’s remediable service must be communicated in a particular
form and manner, information about that form and manner;

4.4.b

where M is an immediate choice member, information about the irrevocability of
an immediate choice decision;

4.4.c

where M is a deferred choice member, information about the circumstances in
which a deferred choice decision is revocable, and the circumstances in which
it is irrevocable;

4.4.d

where regulation  61  applies in relation to M, information about the election
that may be made in accordance with regulation  61(2) , how to make that
election, and the consequences of making, or not making, that election.

4.5

For further provision about—

4.5.a

what a remediable service statement must include, see—

4.5.a.i

section 29(5) of PSPJOA 2022;

4.5.a.ii

direction 20(1) of the PSP Directions 2022;

4.5.b

when a remediable service statement must be combined with a benefit
information statement provided under section 14 of the Public Service Pensions
Act 2013, see direction 20(2) of the PSP Directions 2022.

### Decisions about the treatment of remediable service


#### Opted-out service elections


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


5

5.1

This Chapter applies to and in respect of a member (“ M ”) with PCSPS opted-
out service.

5.2

In this Chapter—

      “ opted-out service decision-maker ” means the person who may make an
opted-out service election under regulation  6(2) ;           “ PCSPS opted-
out service ” means relevant opted-out service  in an employment or office in
relation to the PCSPS.

##### Election in relation to PCSPS opted-out service


6

6.1

An election (an “opted-out service election”) may be made in relation to M’s
PCSPS opted-out service in accordance with this Chapter and section 5 of
PSPJOA 2022.

6.2

An opted-out service election may be made—

6.2.a

by M or,

6.2.b

where M is a deceased member, by the eligible decision-maker determined in
accordance with the Schedule.

6.3

Where a person other than the scheme manager is the opted-out service
decision-maker, an opted-out service election may only be made after the
scheme manager determines an application which is—

6.3.a

made by or on behalf of M,

6.3.b

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

6.3.c

received by the scheme manager during the period beginning with 1st October
2023 and ending—

6.3.c.i

at the end of 30th September 2024, or

6.3.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, and

6.3.d

accompanied by such information—

6.3.d.i

which is within the person’s possession, or

6.3.d.ii

which the person may reasonably be expected to obtain,

that the scheme manager may by written notice require the person to provide in
relation to the decision which caused the service in question to become opted-
out service.

6.4

As soon as is reasonably practicable after receipt of an application, the
scheme manager must—

6.4.a

determine whether an opted-out service election may be made in relation to M,
and

6.4.b

notify the person who made the application whether such an opted-out service
election may be made.

6.5

Where the scheme manager is the opted-out service decision-maker, the scheme
manager must, as soon as is reasonably practicable after determining that they
are the opted-out service decision-maker, determine whether to make an opted-
out service election in relation to M.

6.6

The scheme manager may refuse an application where any of the following
conditions is not met—

6.6.a

the decision by virtue of which M’s service became opted-out service was
communicated to the scheme manager on or after 12th March 2012;

6.6.b

the decision by virtue of which M’s service became opted-out service was made
pursuant to a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule ;

6.6.c

any—

6.6.c.i

assets held for the purposes of a partnership pension account  that are
referable to pension contributions made by or on behalf of M in respect of M’s
PCSPS opted-out service are transferred to the PCSPS, and

6.6.c.ii

entitlement to a future or current pension under the partnership pension
account that would otherwise arise under the rules of the partnership pension
account in respect of the value of the assets transferred is surrendered;

6.6.d

where any assets that are referable to pension contributions made by or on
behalf of M in respect of M’s PCSPS opted-out service have been paid or
transferred out of a partnership pension account, an amount determined by the
scheme manager following consultation with the scheme actuary is paid to the
PCSPS in respect of the payment or transfer.

6.7

An opted-out service election to be made by—

6.7.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when that person confirms that
an opted-out service election is to be made following receipt of the
notification mentioned in paragraph (4)(b);

6.7.b

the scheme manager is made at the time determined by the scheme manager.

6.8

See section 5(2) to (4) of PSPJOA 2022 about the effect, timing and
irrevocability of an opted-out service election.

#### Immediate choice decision for alpha or PCSPS benefits


##### Application of Chapter 2


7

7.1

This Chapter applies in respect of the remediable service of an immediate
choice member (“ M ”).

7.2

Where M has remediable service in multiple employments or offices, this
Chapter applies separately in relation to the remediable service in each
employment or office.

##### Immediate choice decision for alpha or PCSPS benefits: general


8

8.1

A decision (an “immediate choice decision”) may be made in accordance with
this Chapter—

8.1.a

to make an election (a “section 6 election”) by virtue of section 6 of PSPJOA
2022 in relation to M’s remediable service, or

8.1.b

that no section 6 election is to be made in relation to that service.

8.2

An immediate choice decision may be made—

8.2.a

by M, or

8.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

8.3

An immediate choice decision made by—

8.3.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when it is received by the
scheme manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

8.3.b

the scheme manager is made at the time determined by the scheme manager.

8.4

An immediate choice decision may only be made before the end of the section 6
election period .

8.5

An immediate choice decision is irrevocable.

8.6

An immediate choice decision to make a section 6 election takes effect as a
section 6 election (see sections 6(5) and (7), 7(1)(b) and 9 of PSPJOA 2022
about the effect of a section 6 election).

8.7

Paragraph (8) applies where—

8.7.a

immediately before 1st October 2023, M has remediable service in alpha (“alpha
service”), and

8.7.b

an immediate choice decision is made that no section 6 election is to be made
in relation to M’s remediable service.

8.8

Where this paragraph applies, section 6(4) of PSPJOA 2022 does not apply in
relation to M’s alpha service (and, accordingly, section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022
has effect in relation to M’s alpha service for the purposes mentioned in
section 2(3)(b) of that Act from the time the immediate choice decision
mentioned in paragraph (7)(b) is made).

8.9

The following provisions of PSPJOA 2022 have effect in relation to an
immediate choice decision that no section 6 election is to be made as they
have effect in relation to a section 6 election—

8.9.a

section 6(7) (section 6 election has effect in respect of all remediable
service in the employment or office);

8.9.b

section 7(1)(b) (provision about when a section 6 election is to be treated as
having taken effect);

8.9.c

section 9 (provision about persons with remediable service in more than one
Chapter 1 legacy scheme).

##### Immediate choice decision: additional requirements


9

9.1

This regulation applies where the immediate choice decision-maker (“ D ”) is a
person other than the scheme manager.

9.2

An immediate choice decision may not be made unless a remediable service
statement has been provided to D in accordance with regulation  4(2)(a) .

9.3

An immediate choice decision is to be treated as having been made only if D
provides any information specified in a written request from the scheme
manager that is—

9.3.a

information in D’s possession, or

9.3.b

information which D can reasonably be expected to obtain.

##### Immediate choice decision: deemed section 6 election


10

10.1

A section 6 election is treated as made in relation to M’s remediable service
immediately before the end of the section 6 election period where—

10.1.a

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M has passed,

10.1.b

no immediate choice decision has been made in relation to M’s remediable
service, and

10.1.c

condition A or B is met.

10.2

Condition A is met where all of M’s remediable service was in alpha.

10.3

Condition B is met where—

10.3.a

M’s remediable service was mixed service, and

10.3.b

the scheme manager determines, having consulted the scheme actuary, that the
value of benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable service would be
greater if payable as alpha benefits than if they were payable as PCSPS
benefits.

#### Deferred choice decision for alpha or PCSPS benefits


##### Application of Chapter 3


11

11.1

This Chapter applies in respect of the remediable service of a deferred choice
member (“ M ”).

11.2

Where M has remediable service in multiple employments or offices, this
Chapter applies separately in relation to the remediable service in each
employment or office.

##### Deferred choice decision for alpha or PCSPS benefits: general


12

12.1

A decision (a “deferred choice decision”) may be made—

12.1.a

to make an election (a “section 10 election”) by virtue of section 10 of
PSPJOA 2022 in relation to M’s remediable service, or

12.1.b

that no section 10 election is to be made in relation to that service.

12.2

A deferred choice decision may be made—

12.2.a

by M, or

12.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

12.3

A deferred choice decision made by—

12.3.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when it is received by the
scheme manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

12.3.b

the scheme manager is made at a time determined by the scheme manager.

12.4

A deferred choice decision may only be made before the end of the section 10
election period.

12.5

A deferred choice decision to make a section 10 election takes effect as a
section 10 election (see sections 10(4) and (5), 11(3)(b), (4) and (7) and 13
of PSPJOA 2022 about the effect of a section 10 election).

12.6

Where the deferred choice decision is that no section 10 election is to be
made, the benefits payable to or in respect of M, so far as they are
determined by reference to M’s remediable service, are PCSPS benefits.

12.7

The following provisions of PSPJOA 2022 have effect in relation to a decision
that no section 10 election is to be made as they have effect in relation to a
section 10 election—

12.7.a

section 10(5) (section 10 election has effect in respect of all remediable
service in the employment or office);

12.7.b

section 11(3)(b), (4) and (7) (provision about when a section 10 election
takes effect, and the effect of lapse or revocation of a section 10 election);

12.7.c

section 13 (persons with remediable service in more than one Chapter 1 legacy
scheme).

##### Deferred choice decision: when a deferred choice decision may be made


13

13.1

Where the deferred choice decision-maker is M, a deferred choice decision may
be made only during the period—

13.1.a

beginning on the date of issue of the remediable service statement issued
under regulation  4(2)(c)(i) , and

13.1.b

ending—

13.1.b.i

at the end of the day 3 months before the day the scheme manager reasonably
expects, by virtue of the notification mentioned in regulation  4(2)(c)(i) ,
that benefits in relation to M’s remediable service will become payable,

13.1.b.ii

subject to paragraph (2), at the end of such other day as the scheme manager
considers reasonable in all the circumstances, or

13.1.b.iii

if earlier than the time which applies by virtue of paragraph (i) or (ii), at
the end of the day before the day on which benefits become payable in relation
to M’s remediable service.

13.2

The end of the period during which a deferred choice decision may be made must
not be more than one year before the day on which it is reasonably expected
that, if a section 10 election were made, alpha benefits would become payable
to or in respect of M.

13.3

Where—

13.3.a

the period for making a deferred choice decision has begun in accordance with
paragraph (1)(a), and

13.3.b

the scheme manager receives notice that M has died before benefits become
payable to M in relation to M’s remediable service,

the period during which a deferred choice decision may be made is to be
treated as ending in accordance with paragraph (4)(b) instead of paragraph
(1)(b).

13.4

Where the deferred choice decision-maker is a person other than M (“ D ”), a
deferred choice decision may only be made during the period—

13.4.a

beginning—

13.4.a.i

where D is a person other than the scheme manager, on the date of issue of the
remediable service statement issued under regulation  4(2)(c)(ii) , or

13.4.a.ii

where D is the scheme manager, on the date the scheme manager receives notice
that M has died, and

13.4.b

ending—

13.4.b.i

at the end of the day 12 months after that date,

13.4.b.ii

except where D is the scheme manager, at the end of such other day as the
scheme manager considers reasonable in all the circumstances, or

13.4.b.iii

if earlier than the time which applies by virtue of paragraph (i) or (ii),
immediately after a deferred choice decision is made by D.

13.5

Where—

13.5.a

the deferred choice decision-maker is D, and

13.5.b

M had made a deferred choice decision,

D may make a deferred choice decision only if they revoke M’s deferred choice
decision in accordance with regulation  14(2) .

##### Deferred choice decision: revocation


14

14.1

Where the deferred choice decision-maker is M, M may revoke a deferred choice
decision—

14.1.a

at any time before benefits become payable in relation to M’s remediable
service, and

14.1.b

by M communicating to the scheme manager notice of the revocation in a form
and manner determined by the scheme manager.

14.2

Where—

14.2.a

the deferred choice decision-maker is a person other than M or the scheme
manager (“ D ”),

14.2.b

M had made a deferred choice decision,

14.2.c

immediately before M’s death, no pension benefits were payable in relation to
M’s remediable service, and

14.2.d

the end of the section 10 election period has not passed,

D may revoke M’s deferred choice decision by communicating to the scheme
manager notice of the revocation in a form and manner determined by the scheme
manager.

14.3

A deferred choice decision made by a person other than M is irrevocable.

##### Deferred choice decision: additional requirements


15

Where the deferred choice decision-maker (“ D ”) is a person other than the
scheme manager, a deferred choice decision is to be treated as having been
made only if D provides any information specified in a written request from
the scheme manager that is—

15.a

information in D’s possession, or

15.b

information which D can reasonably be expected to obtain.

### Provision about divorce and dissolution arrangements


#### Pension credit and pension debit members


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


###### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


16

16.1

This Chapter applies in relation to—

16.1.a

a pension credit member,

16.1.b

the corresponding pension debit member, and

16.1.c

the pension sharing order by virtue of which C became a pension credit member
in relation to D’s remediable service (the “ relevant pension sharing order
”).

16.2

In this Chapter—

      “ appropriate person ” means—         D, or           where D is
deceased, D’s personal representatives;                 “ C ” means the
pension credit member mentioned in paragraph (1)(a);           “ cash
equivalent ” means an amount calculated in accordance with regulations made
under section 30 of WRPA 1999 ;           “ corresponding pension debit member
” means the remedy member referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of the definition
of “pension credit member”;           “ D ” means the corresponding pension
debit member mentioned in paragraph (1)(b);           “ pension credit member
” means a member of a civil service scheme who has rights under the scheme—
which are attributable (directly or indirectly) to a pension credit,
which arise by virtue of a pension sharing order with a transfer day on or
after 1st April 2015, and           the value of which was determined (to any
extent) by reference to the value of benefits payable in respect of the
remediable service of a remedy member;                 “ pension sharing order
” means the order or provision by virtue of which section 29 of WRPA 1999
applies in relation to a pension credit member and the corresponding pension
debit member;           “ relevant pension sharing order ” has the meaning
given in paragraph (1)(c);           “ remediable relevant benefits ” means
the benefits or future benefits described in section 29(4) and (5) of WRPA
1999 to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights;
“ remediable shareable rights ” means D’s shareable rights secured by virtue
of D’s remediable service during the period beginning with 1st April 2015 and
ending with the earlier of—         the day before the transfer date, or
the last day of D’s remediable service;                 “ shareable rights ”
has the meaning given in section 27(2) of WRPA 1999;           “ transfer day
” means the day on which the relevant pension sharing order takes effect;
“ valuation day ” has the meaning given in section 29(7) of WRPA 1999.

##### Pension sharing orders: information provided before 1st October 2023


###### Application and interpretation of Section 2


17

17.1

This Section applies where, before 1st October 2023, the scheme manager has
provided information for the purpose of determining amounts under section 29
of WRPA 1999 in respect of a remedy member’s remediable service.

17.2

In this Section—

      “ alternative amount ” has the meaning given in regulation  18 ;
“alternative reduction amount” and “alternative reduction amounts” have the
meanings given in, respectively, regulation  21(3)  and (4);           “
alternative scheme ”, in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that
does not relate to mixed service , means—         where the initial scheme is
the PCSPS, alpha;           where the initial scheme is alpha, the PCSPS;
“ C’s pension account ” has the meaning given in regulation  20(4) ;
“ initial amount ” means the total amount determined for the purposes of the
relevant pension sharing order under section 29(2) and (3) of WRPA 1999 in
relation to D’s remediable shareable rights;           “ initial reduction
amount ” means the amount by which D’s remediable relevant benefits were
reduced pursuant to the relevant pension sharing order;           “ initial
scheme ”, in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that does not relate
to mixed service, means the civil service scheme in respect of which an
initial amount or an initial reduction amount was determined;           “
remediable credit adjustment ” has the meaning given in regulation  19(2) .

17.3

For the purposes of this Section, a relevant pension sharing order relates to
mixed service if it specifies an appropriate amount in accordance with section
29(2) or (3) of WRPA 1999 by reference to the value of remediable relevant
benefits to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights
secured in both the PCSPS and alpha (and, accordingly, a relevant pension
sharing order does not relate to mixed service if it specifies an appropriate
amount by reference to remediable shareable rights secured in only one of
those schemes).

###### Meaning of “alternative amount”


18

18.1

“ Alternative amount ” means—

18.1.a

in relation to a relevant pension order that does not relate to mixed service,
where an initial amount was determined under—

18.1.a.i

section 29(2) of WRPA 1999 in relation to a percentage value to be transferred
from the initial scheme, the amount that would have been determined applying
the relevant percentage value under that section on the valuation day if the
remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the alternative scheme;

18.1.a.ii

section 29(3) of WRPA 1999 in relation to an amount to be transferred from the
initial scheme, the amount equal to the implied percentage of the cash
equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day determined
as if all of those benefits had been secured in the alternative scheme;

18.1.b

in relation to a relevant pension order that relates to mixed service, the
greater of—

18.1.b.i

the PCSPS amount, and

18.1.b.ii

the alpha amount.

18.2

In paragraph (1)(b)—

      “ the PCSPS amount ” means, where the initial amount was—
determined under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999 in relation to a percentage value
to be transferred from both the PCSPS and alpha, the amount that would have
been determined applying—         in relation to pre-taper date remediable
relevant benefits, the PCSPS percentage value, and           in relation to
post-taper date remediable relevant benefits, the alpha percentage value,
under that section on the valuation day if all of the remediable relevant
benefits had been secured in the PCSPS;           determined under section
29(3) of WRPA 1999 in relation to an amount to be transferred from both the
PCSPS and alpha, the amount equal to the implied percentage of the cash
equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day determined
as if all of those benefits had been secured in the PCSPS;                 “
the alpha amount ” means, where the initial amount was—         determined
under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999 in relation to a percentage value to be
transferred from both the PCSPS and alpha, the amount that would have been
determined applying—         in relation to pre-taper date remediable relevant
benefits, the PCSPS percentage value, and           in relation to post-taper
date remediable relevant benefits, the alpha percentage value,         under
that section on the valuation day if all of the remediable relevant benefits
had been secured in alpha;           determined under section 29(3) of WRPA
1999 in relation to an amount to be transferred from both the PCSPS and alpha,
the amount equal to the implied percentage of the cash equivalent of the
remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day determined as if all of
those benefits had been secured in alpha.

18.3

In this regulation—

      “ alpha percentage value ” means the percentage value specified in a
relevant pension sharing order in relation to alpha for the purpose of
determining an amount under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999;           “ implied
percentage ”, in relation to the value of benefits under a civil service
scheme, means the percentage that an initial amount determined under section
29(3) of WRPA 1999 represented of the cash equivalent of the remediable
relevant benefits under that scheme on valuation day;           “ PCSPS
percentage value ” means the percentage value specified in a relevant pension
sharing order in relation to the PCSPS for the purpose of determining an
amount under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999;           “ post-taper date
remediable relevant benefits ” means remediable relevant benefits to which D
is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights secured by virtue of D’s
remediable service after D’s tapered protection closing date;           “ pre-
taper date remediable relevant benefits ” means remediable relevant benefits
to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights secured by
virtue of D’s remediable service on or before D’s tapered protection closing
date;           “ relevant percentage value ” means—         where the
relevant pension sharing order specifies a percentage value in relation to
only the initial scheme for the purpose of determining an amount under section
29(2) of WRPA 1999, that percentage value;           otherwise, the percentage
value that is specified in relation to the alternative scheme;
“ tapered protection closing date ”, in relation to D, has the meaning given
in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2014 Regulations.

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: calculating a remediable credit adjustment


19

19.1

The scheme manager must determine the alternative amount in relation to C’s
pension credit—

19.1.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th September 2023, and

19.1.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

19.2

Where—

19.2.a

the alternative amount is greater than the initial amount, or

19.2.b

the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service and the
alternative amount is lower than the initial amount,

C’s pension account is subject to an adjustment (a “remediable credit
adjustment”) equal to the difference.

19.3

The scheme manager must, by the end of 30th September 2024, provide C with a
statement setting out—

19.3.a

the alternative amount,

19.3.b

any remediable credit adjustment, and

19.3.c

where regulation  20(4)(b)  applies in relation to C, an explanation of the
request that may be made in accordance with regulation  20(5)  and the
consequences of making, or not making, such a request.

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: applying a remediable credit adjustment


20

20.1

This regulation applies where C’s pension account is subject to a remediable
credit adjustment.

20.2

The scheme manager must adjust C’s pension account by an amount equal to the
remediable credit adjustment.

20.3

An adjustment made under paragraph (2) has effect as if it had been made on
the transfer day.

20.4

“ C’s pension account ” means, where C has, in relation to the relevant
pension sharing order—

20.4.a

a pension credit in only one civil service scheme, C’s pension account under
that scheme;

20.4.b

a pension credit in both civil service schemes—

20.4.b.i

the pension account identified by C in a request made in accordance with
paragraph (5), or

20.4.b.ii

if no request is made in accordance with paragraph (5), C’s pension account
under the PCSPS.

20.5

A request is made in accordance with this paragraph if—

20.5.a

it is made in writing to the scheme manager for the purpose of paragraph
(4)(b)(i),

20.5.b

it is in a form determined by the scheme manager,

20.5.c

it unambiguously identifies only one of C’s pension accounts, and

20.5.d

it is received by the scheme manager by—

20.5.d.i

the end of the day 6 months after the date the statement required by
regulation  19(3)  was provided to C, or

20.5.d.ii

the end of such later day that the scheme manager considers reasonable in all
the circumstances.

20.6

A request made in accordance with paragraph (5) is irrevocable.

20.7

Section 14(3) to (6) of PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to C as it applies in
relation to a member described in section 14(1) (“ M ”) as if—

20.7.a

a reference to M’s remediable service in an employment or office were a
reference to C’s pension credit;

20.7.b

a reference to any effect of sections 2(1) and 6(4) and (5) were a reference
to the effect of this regulation;

20.7.c

the term “ operative time ” means the time at which the adjustment mentioned
in paragraph (2) is made (disregarding paragraph (3)).

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: recalculating D’s reduction of benefit


21

21.1

This regulation applies where D’s remediable relevant benefits have been
reduced by an initial reduction amount.

21.2

The scheme manager must determine the alternative reduction amount or, where
the relevant pension sharing relates to mixed service, the alternative
reduction amounts in relation to D’s remediable relevant benefits—

21.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th September 2023, and

21.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

21.3

Where the relevant pension sharing order does not relate to mixed service, the
“alternative reduction amount” is such amount as the scheme manager considers
appropriate having regard to—

21.3.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if they had been secured in the alternative scheme,

21.3.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the relevant
pension sharing order, and

21.3.c

the provisions of sections 29 and 31 of WRPA 1999.

21.4

Where the pension sharing order relates to mixed service, the “alternative
reduction amounts” are such amounts as the scheme manager considers
appropriate having regard to—

21.4.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if they had all been secured in—

21.4.a.i

the PCSPS, and separately

21.4.a.ii

alpha, and

21.4.b

the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) and (c).

##### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023


###### Application and interpretation of Section 3


22

22.1

This Section applies where, on or after 1st October 2023, the scheme manager
provides information for the purpose of determining amounts under section 29
of WRPA 1999 in respect of a remedy member’s remediable service.

22.2

In this Section—

      “ the alpha cash equivalent ” has the meaning given in regulation
23(2)(b) ;           “ alternative reduction amount ” has the meaning given in
regulation  24(3) ;           “ appropriate amount ” means an amount
calculated for the purposes of section 29(1) of WRPA 1999;           “
immediate choice pensioner member ” means an immediate choice member who is,
immediately before these Regulations come into force, a pensioner member in
relation to their remediable service;           “ the PCSPS cash equivalent ”
has the meaning given in regulation  23(2)(a) .

###### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023: calculation of pension credits and debits


23

23.1

This regulation applies where D is—

23.1.a

a deferred choice member and no pension benefits have become payable in
relation to D’s remediable service, or

23.1.b

an immediate choice pensioner member and—

23.1.b.i

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to D has not passed, and

23.1.b.ii

no immediate choice decision has been made in relation to D’s remediable
service.

23.2

For the purpose of calculating the appropriate amount, the scheme manager must
determine—

23.2.a

the cash equivalent of D’s remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if those remediable relevant benefits were in the PCSPS (“the PCSPS cash
equivalent”), and

23.2.b

the cash equivalent of those benefits on valuation day as if they were in
alpha (“the alpha cash equivalent”).

23.3

For the purpose of calculating the pension credit and the pension debit, the
scheme manager must use the greater of—

23.3.a

the PCSPS cash equivalent, or

23.3.b

the alpha cash equivalent.

###### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023: recalculating D’s reduction of benefit


24

24.1

This regulation applies where D’s remediable relevant benefits are to be
reduced in relation to a pension debit calculated under regulation  23(3) .

24.2

The scheme manager must determine the alternative reduction amount in relation
to D’s remediable relevant benefits—

24.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the transfer day, and

24.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

24.3

The “alternative reduction amount” is such amount as the scheme manager
considers appropriate having regard to—

24.3.a

the cash equivalent of D’s remediable relevant benefits on valuation day as if
they had been remediable relevant benefits secured in—

24.3.a.i

where the pension debit mentioned in paragraph (1) was calculated on the basis
of the PCSPS cash equivalent, alpha;

24.3.a.ii

where the pension debit was calculated on the basis of the alpha cash
equivalent, the PCSPS;

24.3.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the relevant
pension sharing order, and

24.3.c

the provisions of sections 29 and 31 of WRPA 1999.

#### Arrangements on divorce, annulment or dissolution other than a pension sharing order


##### Arrangements other than a pension sharing order: calculating the value of pension benefits


25

25.1

This regulation applies where—

25.1.a

the value of the remediable rights of a member (“ M ”) must be determined for
the purpose of proceedings connected to M’s divorce, annulment or the
dissolution of M’s civil partnership,

25.1.b

the divorce, annulment or dissolution is to take effect—

25.1.b.i

on or after 1st October 2023, and

25.1.b.ii

before the earlier of—

25.1.b.ii.aa

a decision taking effect in relation to M’s remediable service, or

25.1.b.ii.bb

the end of the relevant election period, and

25.1.c

the value of M’s remediable rights is not to be subject to a pension sharing
order.

25.2

The value of M’s remediable rights for the purpose of the proceedings is the
greater of those rights valued by the scheme manager, having consulted the
scheme actuary, as if they were—

25.2.a

secured in the PCSPS, or

25.2.b

secured in alpha.

25.3

In this regulation—

      “ decision ” means an immediate choice decision or a deferred choice
decision;           “ end of the relevant election period ” means, where M is—
a deferred choice member, the end of the section 10 election period in
relation to M;           an immediate choice member, the end of the section 6
election period in relation to M;                 “ pension sharing order ”
means an order or provision by virtue of section 29 of WRPA 1999 in relation
to M’s remediable rights;           “ remediable rights ” means the rights
secured by virtue of M’s remediable service.

### Voluntary contributions


#### Added pension


##### Interpretation of Chapter 1


26

In this Chapter—

      “ added pension rights ” means rights to alpha added pension or PCSPS
added pension;           “ alpha added pension ” means benefits secured under
Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the 2014 Regulations;           “ PCSPS added pension
” means benefits secured under—         rule C1.1 or C1.2 of Section I;
Section 14 of Section II;           rule D.4 or D.5 of Section III;
“ periodic arrangement ” means an arrangement under which a remedy member
secures added pension rights by virtue of periodic voluntary contributions.

##### Lump sum purchase of added pension


27

27.1

This regulation applies in relation to added pension rights secured by a lump
sum voluntary contribution made by a remedy member ( “M” ) during the period
of M’s remediable service (“the remediable voluntary contribution”).

27.2

The scheme manager must—

27.2.a

as soon as practicable after 1st October 2023, and

27.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary,

determine the equivalent value of the added pension rights that would have
been secured in the alternative scheme if the remediable voluntary
contribution had been paid to the alternative scheme in the same relevant
pension year in which the remediable voluntary contribution was paid (“the
alternative added pension value”).

27.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

27.3.a

M is a deferred choice member, and

27.3.b

the added pension rights mentioned in paragraph (1) are rights to alpha added
pension.

27.4

Where this paragraph applies—

27.4.a

the rights to alpha added pension secured by the remediable voluntary
contribution are extinguished, and

27.4.b

the scheme manager must confer rights to PCSPS added pension that are of
equivalent value to the alternative added pension value.

27.5

Paragraph (6) applies where—

27.5.a

M has rights to PCSPS added pension (whether or not by virtue of paragraph
(4)), and

27.5.b

the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable service are alpha benefits
by virtue of—

27.5.b.i

a section 6 election (including a deemed section 6 election), or

27.5.b.ii

a section 10 election.

27.6

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must, having consulted the
scheme actuary, vary M’s rights to PCSPS added pension so that they are
equivalent to added pension rights that would have been secured under alpha if
the remediable voluntary contribution had been paid to alpha in the same
relevant pension year in which the remediable voluntary contribution was paid.

27.7

In this regulation—

      “ alternative scheme ” means—         in relation to added pension
rights secured or treated as secured in alpha, the PCSPS;           in
relation to added pension rights secured or treated as secured in the PCSPS,
alpha;                 “ relevant pension year ” has the meaning given in
direction 5(16)(c)(i) of the PSP Directions 2022.

##### Periodic arrangements for alpha added pension


28

28.1

This regulation applies in relation to a periodic arrangement for alpha added
pension ( “the relevant periodic arrangement” )—

28.1.a

of a member (“ M ”) who is—

28.1.a.i

a deferred choice member, or

28.1.a.ii

an immediate choice member in respect of whose remediable service section
2(3)(b) of PSPJOA 2022 has effect, and

28.1.b

which commenced during M’s period of remediable service.

28.2

The relevant periodic arrangement is to be treated on and after 1st October
2023 as if it is (and always was) a periodic arrangement for PCSPS added
pension.

28.3

The rights to alpha added pension secured by payment of any voluntary
contribution pursuant to the relevant periodic arrangement are extinguished.

28.4

The scheme manager must—

28.4.a

as soon as is practicable after 1st October 2023, and

28.4.b

having consulted the scheme actuary,

confer rights to PCSPS added pension that are of an equivalent value to the
added pension rights that would have been secured in the PCSPS if each
voluntary contribution paid to alpha pursuant to the relevant periodic
arrangement had been paid to the PCSPS in the same relevant pension year in
which the voluntary contribution was paid to alpha.

##### PCSPS added pension: treatment on a section 6 or 10 election


29

29.1

This regulation applies where—

29.1.a

a remedy member (“ M ”) has rights to PCSPS added pension—

29.1.a.i

secured by voluntary contributions made pursuant to a periodic arrangement
which commenced during the period of M’s remediable service, or

29.1.a.ii

conferred under regulation  28(4)  in place of extinguished rights to alpha
added pension, and

29.1.b

the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable service are, by virtue of a
section 6 election (including a deemed section 6 election) or a section 10
election, alpha benefits.

29.2

The scheme manager must, having consulted the scheme actuary, vary the rights
to PCSPS added pension so that they are equivalent to the added pension rights
that would have been secured in alpha if the voluntary contributions that
originally secured the rights mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) had been paid to
alpha in the same relevant pension year in which the voluntary contribution
was paid.

#### Effective pension age and enhanced effective pension age


##### Treatment of EPA and EEPA rights


30

30.1

This regulation applies where a remedy member (“ M ”) entered into an
arrangement during the period of their remediable service to pay periodic
voluntary contributions (the “remediable voluntary contributions”) to secure
EPA or EEPA rights.

30.2

The scheme manager must, as soon as is practicable after 30th September 2023
and having consulted the scheme actuary, determine—

30.2.a

the equivalent value of added pension rights that would have been secured in
the PCSPS if each remediable voluntary contribution had been paid to secure
added pension rights in the PCSPS in the same relevant pension year in which
the remediable voluntary contribution was paid ( “the PCSPS added pension
value” ), and

30.2.b

the “compensatable amount”, being an amount by way of compensation which is
equal to—

30.2.b.i

the aggregate of all of M’s remediable voluntary contributions, less

30.2.b.ii

an amount in respect of the value of tax relief in accordance with direction
5(5) to (9) of the PSP Directions 2022.

30.3

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 5(8) of the PSP
Directions 2022, the following apply—

30.3.a

direction 5(10) (provision of explanation);

30.3.b

direction 5(11) and (12) (appeals).

30.4

When making a remedy decision that no section 6 election or (as the case may
be) no section 10 election is to be made in respect of M’s remediable service,
the relevant decision-maker may also make a decision in accordance with
paragraph (5) that—

30.4.a

rights to added pension are to be conferred under the PCSPS that are of an
equivalent value to the PCSPS added pension value, or

30.4.b

the scheme manager is required to pay M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives the compensatable amount.

30.5

A decision is made in accordance with this paragraph where it is communicated
to the scheme manager—

30.5.a

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager, and

30.5.b

at the same time as the remedy decision mentioned in paragraph (4).

30.6

Where—

30.6.a

a decision is made in accordance with paragraph (5) for the purpose in
paragraph (4)(a), or

30.6.b

no decision has been made in accordance with paragraph (5), and—

30.6.b.i

the period during which a remedy decision may be made in relation to M’s
remediable service has passed,

30.6.b.ii

no remedy decision has been made that a section 6 election or a section 10
election is to be made in relation to M’s remediable service, and

30.6.b.iii

M is not an immediate choice member in respect of whose remediable service a
section 6 election is deemed to have been made under regulation  10 ,

the scheme manager must confer rights to added pension under the PCSPS that
are of an equivalent value to the PCSPS added pension value.

30.7

Where a decision is made in accordance with paragraph (5) for the purpose in
paragraph (4)(b), the scheme manager must pay to M or, where M is deceased,
M’s personal representatives the compensatable amount.

30.8

Where—

30.8.a

rights to added pension under the PCSPS are conferred under paragraph (6), or

30.8.b

compensation is paid in relation to M’s remediable EPA or EEPA rights under
paragraph (7),

any rights that would otherwise have been secured by the remediable voluntary
contributions are extinguished.

30.9

In this regulation—

      “ added pension ”, in relation to the PCSPS, has the meaning given to
“PCSPS added pension” in regulation  26 ;           “ EPA or EEPA rights ”
means rights to benefits secured under Part 3 or Part 4 of Schedule 1 to the
2014 Regulations;           “ remediable EPA or EEPA rights ” means EPA or
EEPA rights secured by virtue of remediable voluntary contributions;
“ remedy decision ” means an immediate choice decision or a deferred choice
decision;           “ relevant decision-maker ” means—         where M is a
deferred choice member, the deferred choice decision-maker;           where M
is an immediate choice member, the immediate choice decision-maker;
“ relevant pension year ” has the meaning given in direction 5(16)(c)(i) of
the PSP Directions 2022.

#### Treatment of remediable added pension rights


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 3


31

31.1

This Chapter applies in relation to “remediable added pension rights”, being
added pension rights secured by a remedy member (“ M ”) by virtue of—

31.1.a

a lump sum voluntary contribution made during the period of M’s remediable
service, or

31.1.b

a voluntary contribution under a periodic arrangement which commenced during
the period of M’s remediable service.

31.2

In paragraph (1), “added pension rights” and “periodic arrangement” have the
meanings given in regulation  26 .

##### Treatment of added pension rights under alpha


32

32.1

Where M’s remediable added pension rights would, apart from this regulation,
be rights to benefits under alpha, the rights—

32.1.a

are not, and are treated as never having been, rights to benefits under alpha,
and

32.1.b

are treated as being, and as always having been, rights to benefits under the
PCSPS.

32.2

Paragraph (1) has effect for the purpose of determining which civil service
scheme is (or at any time was) required to pay benefits to or in respect of
M’s remediable added pension rights.

32.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

32.3.a

section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 has effect in relation to the remediable service
of an immediate choice member (“ M ”),

32.3.b

M secured rights to alpha added pension (within the meaning of regulation  26
) by virtue of—

32.3.b.i

an arrangement under which M paid a lump sum voluntary contribution during the
period of M’s remediable service, or

32.3.b.ii

a periodic arrangement which commenced during the period of M’s remediable
service, and

32.3.c

immediately before 1st October 2023, M was a pensioner member in relation to
alpha.

32.4

Where this paragraph applies—

32.4.a

the rights to alpha added pension mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) are to be
treated for the purposes of these Regulations and of PSPJOA 2022 as if those
rights were secured by virtue of M’s remediable service, and

32.4.b

section 2(5)(a) of PSPJOA 2022 does not apply in relation to the arrangement
by virtue of which M secured the rights to alpha added pension (and,
accordingly, section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 affects that arrangement).

##### Benefits already paid in relation to added pension rights


33

33.1

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to any benefits (“the paid benefits”) that
alpha has at any time paid to a person (“ P ”) so far as—

33.1.a

they are calculated by reference to remediable added pension rights, and

33.1.b

they are benefits that, as a result of regulation  32(1)(a) , P was not
entitled to receive.

33.2

The paid benefits are to be treated for all purposes—

33.2.a

as not having been paid to P by alpha, but

33.2.b

as having been paid to P instead by the PCSPS.

##### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits in relation to remediable additional rights


34

34.1

This regulation applies in relation to any benefits that have been paid to or
in respect of the remediable added pension rights of an immediate choice
member.

34.2

Where, at the operative time—

34.2.a

the aggregate of benefits that (after taking into account the effect, if any,
of regulation  33(2) ) have been paid under the PCSPS to any person (“ the
beneficiary ”) in respect of M’s remediable additional rights, exceeds

34.2.b

the aggregate of the benefits to which (after taking into account the effect,
if any, of regulations  27(6) ,  28(4) ,  29(2)  and  32(1) ) the beneficiary
is entitled under the scheme in respect of the rights,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme.

34.3

Where, at the operative time—

34.3.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(a), is less than

34.3.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(b),

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
beneficiary.

34.4

In this regulation, “ the operative time ” means—

34.4.a

if an immediate choice decision is made in relation to M’s remediable service,
the time the decision is made;

34.4.b

otherwise, the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M.

#### Remedial arrangements to pay voluntary contributions to the PCSPS


##### Remedial arrangements to pay voluntary contributions to secure EPA or EEPA rights


35

35.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) who—

35.1.a

was, immediately before 1st April 2022, a full protection member within the
meaning given to that term by paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2014
Regulations, and

35.1.b

is not a deceased member.

35.2

M may elect to enter into an arrangement (a “remedial arrangement”) to pay
voluntary contributions to the PCSPS for rights to EPA or EEPA in accordance
with—

35.2.a

in respect of—

35.2.a.i

rights to EPA, Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the 2014 Regulations;

35.2.a.ii

rights to EEPA, Part 4 of Schedule 1 to the 2014 Regulations, and

35.2.b

this regulation.

35.3

M may only enter into a remedial arrangement—

35.3.a

in respect of a period of M’s remediable service,

35.3.b

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule, M would, during the period
of M’s remediable service, have entered into a similar arrangement,

35.3.c

before—

35.3.c.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

35.3.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, and

35.3.d

after the scheme manager has approved an application made in accordance with
paragraph (4).

35.4

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

35.4.a

the application is in writing in a form and manner determined by the scheme
manager,

35.4.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purposes of—

35.4.b.i

determining the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b);

35.4.b.ii

complying with any requirement imposed by Part 3 or (as the case may be) Part
4 of Schedule 1 to the 2014 Regulations in connection with exercising an
option to pay voluntary contributions for rights to EPA or EEPA, and

35.4.c

it is received by the scheme manager—

35.4.c.i

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the day on which a
remediable service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

35.4.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances.

35.5

Where M enters into a remedial arrangement—

35.5.a

the scheme manager must confer rights under the PCSPS which are equivalent to
the rights M would have secured had M entered into a similar arrangement but
for a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule, and

35.5.b

M owes to the scheme manager an amount equal to—

35.5.b.i

the aggregate of the voluntary contributions which M would have owed had M
entered into the remedial arrangement at the time M would have entered into a
similar arrangement but for a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule,
less

35.5.b.ii

tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with direction 12(2) to (7) of the
PSP Directions 2022.

35.6

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 12(6) of the PSP
Directions 2022, the following apply—

35.6.a

direction 12(8) (provision of explanation);

35.6.b

direction 12(9) and (10) (appeals).

35.7

Paragraph (8) applies where—

35.7.a

M is a deferred choice member who enters into a remedial arrangement, and

35.7.b

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to M passes and no
section 10 election is made, or deemed to be made, in relation to M’s
remediable service.

35.8

Where this paragraph applies—

35.8.a

the rights mentioned in paragraph (5)(a) are extinguished, and

35.8.b

the scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives the amount mentioned in paragraph (5)(b).

### Transfers


#### General


##### Interpretation of Part 6


36

36.1

In this Part—

      “ receiving scheme ”, in relation to a remediable value, means the
scheme to which the remediable value was, or is to be, paid;           “
reformed public service pension scheme ” means—         a Chapter 1 scheme ;
a judicial scheme within the meaning of section 70(1) of PSPJOA 2022;
a local government scheme within the meaning of section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022;
“ remediable club transfer value ”, in relation to a member, means the payment
or acceptance by the scheme manager of—         a transfer value under Part F
of Section I in accordance with the public sector transfer arrangements
(within the meaning given to that term by rule A.1(4) of Section I);
a transfer value under Section 6 of Section II in connection with a qualifying
transfer (within the meaning given to that term by rule 6.37(iii) of Section
II);           a transfer value under Part G of Section III in connection with
a Club transfer (within the meaning given to that term by rule A.1(4) of
Section III);           a club transfer value under Part 10 of the 2014
Regulations,         so far as the transfer value relates to the member’s
remediable rights;           “ remediable rights ”, in relation to a member,
means the member’s rights to benefits under a reformed public service pension
scheme secured by virtue of the member’s remediable service;           “
remediable transfer value ”, in relation to a member, means the payment or
acceptance by the scheme manager of a transfer value (other than a remediable
club transfer value) under—         Part F of Section I;           Section 6
of Section II;           Part G of Section III;           Part 10 of the 2014
Regulations,         so far as the transfer value relates to the member’s
remediable rights;           “ remediable value ” means a remediable club
transfer value or a remediable transfer value;           “ sending scheme ”,
in relation to a remediable value, means the scheme which paid, or is to pay,
the remediable value.

36.2

Where a provision of this Part requires the scheme manager to calculate a
transfer value (including a remediable value), that value is to be calculated
in accordance with—

36.2.a

the provisions of the civil service scheme which apply to the calculation of
values of that type, and

36.2.b

the guidance and tables provided for the purpose of calculating such values
that were, or are, in use on the date used for the calculation of the value
which originally secured rights under a civil service scheme.

##### Transferred out remediable service statements


37

Where a remedy member has transferred any rights in respect of remediable
service out of a civil service scheme, the scheme manager must provide a
transferred out remediable service statement in accordance with direction 6(2)
to (4) of the PSP Directions 2022 (and direction 6(4) applies as if the
reference to “any provision made by virtue of section 29(1) of PSPJOA 2022”
were a reference to regulation 4).

#### Transfers on a cash equivalent basis


##### Transfers before 1st October 2023


###### Transfers out before 1st October 2023


38

38.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) in respect of
whom the scheme manager paid a remediable transfer value before 1st October
2023.

38.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must calculate the
transfer value of M’s remediable rights as if they were secured in—

38.2.a

the PCSPS, and separately

38.2.b

alpha.

38.3

The scheme manager must notify the receiving scheme of the results of the
calculation mentioned in paragraph (2).

38.4

Where—

38.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“ x ”) is greater
than

38.4.b

the amount of the remediable transfer value (“ y ”),

the scheme manager must take reasonable steps to pay the receiving scheme an
amount equal to  x  –  y .

38.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable transfer value.

38.6

Where—

38.6.a

paragraph (4) applies, and

38.6.b

the scheme manager, having taken reasonable steps, is unable to make the
payment required by that paragraph,

the scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to  x – y  (“the
compensatable amount”) reduced in accordance with paragraph (7).

38.7

Where, if the compensatable amount was paid immediately after the requirement
to pay it arose, the payment—

38.7.a

would be a payment described in regulation 6 of the Registered Pension Schemes
(Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009  (“ the 2009 Regulations ”) read as if
regulation 6(1)(a) of those Regulations were omitted, the compensatable amount
is to be reduced by the amount equal to the income tax that would be
chargeable on it if regulation 3(b) of the 2009 Regulations applied to it;

38.7.b

would not be a payment so described, the compensatable amount is to be reduced
by an amount equal to the income tax that would be charged on the amount if it
were taxed as pension income under Part 9 of the Income Tax (Earnings and
Pensions) Act 2003 .

###### Transfers in before 1st October 2023


39

39.1

This regulation applies in relation to each payment of a remediable transfer
value in respect of a member (“ M ”) which was accepted by the scheme manager
before 1st October 2023.

39.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must determine M’s
remediable benefits if the transfer value, together with any payment accepted
under paragraph (3), were applied in respect of rights secured in—

39.2.a

the PCSPS, and separately

39.2.b

alpha.

39.3

Where the sending scheme was a reformed public service pension scheme, the
scheme manager may accept a payment—

39.3.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable transfer value
relates, and

39.3.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

39.4

A payment accepted under paragraph (3) is to be used for the purpose of
determining M’s benefits under a civil service scheme on the same terms as the
remediable transfer value.

##### Transfers on or after 1st October 2023


###### Application of Section 2


40

This Section applies in respect of a deferred choice member (“ M ”) where no
pension benefits have become payable in relation to M’s remediable service.

###### Transfers out on or after 1st October 2023


41

41.1

This regulation applies to a remediable transfer value to be paid in relation
to M by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

41.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must calculate the
transfer value of M’s remediable rights as if those rights had been secured
in—

41.2.a

the PCSPS, and separately

41.2.b

alpha.

41.3

The amount of the remediable transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

#### Transfers on a club basis


##### Club transfers before 1st October 2023


###### Club transfers out before 1st October 2023


42

42.1

This regulation applies in relation to each member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
the scheme manager paid a remediable club transfer value before 1st October
2023.

42.2

The scheme manager must calculate the transfer value of M’s rights under a
civil service scheme as if all of M’s remediable rights had been secured in—

42.2.a

the PCSPS, and separately

42.2.b

alpha.

42.3

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme the result of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

42.4

Where the receiving scheme is a local government scheme (within the meaning of
section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022), and—

42.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“ x ”) is greater
than

42.4.b

the amount of the remediable transfer value (“ y ”),

the scheme manager must pay the receiving scheme an amount equal to  x  –  y .

42.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable club transfer value.

###### Club transfers in before 1st October 2023


43

43.1

This regulation applies in relation to each remediable club transfer value in
respect of a member (“ M ”) which was accepted by the scheme manager before
1st October 2023.

43.2

The scheme manager may accept an adjustment in the value of a remediable club
transfer value—

43.2.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable club transfer
value payment relates, and

43.2.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

43.3

An adjustment accepted under paragraph (2) is to be used for the purpose of
determining M’s benefits under a civil service scheme on the same terms as the
remediable club transfer value.

43.4

The scheme manager must determine M’s remediable benefits as if the remediable
club transfer value, together with any adjustment accepted under paragraph
(2), were applied in respect of rights secured in—

43.4.a

the PCSPS, and separately

43.4.b

alpha.

##### Club transfers on or after 1st October 2023


###### Application of Section 2


44

This Section applies in respect of a member (“ M ”) who is a deferred choice
member, and to whom no pension benefits have become payable in relation to M’s
remediable service.

###### Club transfers out on or after 1st October 2023


45

45.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable club transfer value to be
paid by the scheme manager in respect of M on or after 1st October 2023.

45.2

The scheme manager must calculate the transfer value of M’s rights under a
civil service scheme as if all of M’s remediable rights had been secured in—

45.2.a

the PCSPS, and separately

45.2.b

alpha.

45.3

The amount of the remediable club transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

45.4

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme the result of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

###### Club transfers in on or after 1st October 2023


46

46.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable club transfer value
payment which is accepted by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

46.2

The scheme manager must determine M’s benefits as if the remediable transfer
value were applied in respect of rights in—

46.2.a

the PCSPS, and separately

46.2.b

alpha.

##### Interim payment of benefits in certain cases


###### Interim payment of benefits in certain cases


47

47.1

This regulation applies in relation to a deferred choice member (“ M ”) in
respect of whom the scheme manager has accepted a remediable club transfer
value, where—

47.1.a

benefits become payable under the PCSPS in relation to M’s remediable service,
and

47.1.b

it is impracticable for the scheme manager to issue a remediable service
statement in relation to M’s remediable service because the sending scheme has
not provided the information required to determine the value of M’s rights in
accordance with regulation  43(4) .

47.2

The scheme manager may, during the relevant period, pay to a person who is
entitled to receive benefits in relation to M’s pensionable service (“ the
beneficiary ”) the following benefits in relation to M’s rights under the
PCSPS—

47.2.a

such benefits as do not relate to the remediable club transfer value,
determined as if a deferred choice decision has been made that no section 10
election is to be made in relation to M’s remediable service, and

47.2.b

such benefits as relate to the remediable club transfer value determined as if
regulation  50(1)  does not apply in relation to the rights secured by the
remediable club transfer value.

47.3

Where, at the end of the relevant period—

47.3.a

the aggregate of the benefits that have been paid pursuant to paragraph (2),
exceeds

47.3.b

the aggregate of the benefits to which (after taking into account the effect,
if any, of regulation 50(1) and (4) and section 10(4) of PSPJOA 2022) the
beneficiary is entitled under the PCSPS in respect of M’s pensionable service,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme
manager.

47.4

Where, at the end of the relevant period—

47.4.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (3)(a), is less than

47.4.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (3)(b),

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
beneficiary.

47.5

Regulation 13(1)(b)(iii) does not apply to determine the end of the section 10
election period in relation to M.

47.6

In this regulation, “ relevant period ” means the period beginning with the
day on which benefits become payable in relation to M’s remediable service and
ending with the earlier of—

47.6.a

the time at which a deferred choice decision is made in relation to M’s
remediable service, and

47.6.b

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to M.

#### Treatment of rights secured by virtue of a remediable value


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 4


48

48.1

This Chapter applies in relation to the following accepted by the scheme
manager in respect of a member (“ M ”)—

48.1.a

a remediable transfer value, together with any payment accepted under
regulation  39(3) ;

48.1.b

a remediable club transfer value, together with any adjustment accepted under
regulation  43(2) .

48.2

In this Chapter, “ transferred in remediable rights ” means M’s remediable
rights in a civil service scheme secured by virtue of a remediable value
accepted by the scheme manager together with any payment or, as the case may
be, adjustment under regulation  39(3)  or  43(2) .

##### Transferred in remediable rights treated as being in the PCSPS


49

49.1

Where M’s transferred in remediable rights would, apart from this regulation,
be rights to benefits under alpha, the rights—

49.1.a

are not, and are treated as never having been, rights under alpha, and

49.1.b

are treated as being, and as always having been, rights under the PCSPS.

49.2

Paragraph (1) has effect—

49.2.a

for the purposes of determining which civil service scheme is (or at any time
was) required to pay benefits to or in respect of M’s transferred in
remediable rights, and

49.2.b

subject to regulation  50 , for all other purposes.

##### Varying the value of benefits secured by virtue of transferred in remediable rights


50

50.1

Where—

50.1.a

M is a deferred choice member, and

50.1.b

M’s transferred in remediable rights are treated as rights to benefits under
the PCSPS by virtue of regulation  49(1)(b) ,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to the rights M would have secured under the PCSPS if the
rights had been transferred into that scheme.

50.2

A variation under paragraph (1) is to be treated as having taken effect when
these Regulations come into force.

50.3

Where—

50.3.a

M is an immediate choice member, and

50.3.a.i

an immediate choice decision has been made that no section 6 election is to be
made in relation to M’s remediable service, or

50.3.a.ii

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M has passed and no
section 6 election has been made (or deemed to have been made) in relation to
M’s remediable service, and

50.3.b

M’s transferred in remediable rights are treated as rights to benefits under
the PCSPS by virtue of regulation  49(1)(b) ,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights M would have secured under the PCSPS if the rights
had been transferred into that scheme.

50.4

A variation under paragraph (3) is to be treated as having taken effect on the
earlier of—

50.4.a

the time that an immediate choice decision (including a deemed section 6
election) is treated as having taken effect in relation to M’s remediable
service, and

50.4.b

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M.

50.5

Where—

50.5.a

the benefits payable to or in respect of M’s remediable service are alpha
benefits by virtue of a section 6 election (including a deemed section 6
election) or a section 10 election, and

50.5.b

the benefits payable in relation to M’s transferred in remediable rights would
otherwise be PCSPS benefits,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights M would have secured under alpha if the rights had
been transferred into that scheme.

50.6

Where the scheme manager is required to vary the value of any rights under
this regulation so that they are of an equivalent value to rights that would
have been secured in another scheme (“ the alternative scheme ”), the scheme
manager must—

50.6.a

where the rights were secured by virtue of a remediable transfer value, first
consult the scheme actuary, and

50.6.b

calculate the varied value of the rights as if the remediable value which
originally secured rights under a civil service scheme were transferred into
the alternative scheme in the relevant pension year that the transfer
occurred.

50.7

In paragraph (6), “ relevant pension year ” has the meaning given by direction
4(14)(f)(i) of the PSP Directions 2022.

##### Benefits already paid in relation to transferred in remediable rights


51

51.1

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to any benefits (“the paid benefits”) that
alpha has at any time paid to a person (“ P ”) so far as—

51.1.a

they are calculated by reference to P’s, or any other person’s, transferred in
remediable rights, and

51.1.b

they are benefits that, as a result of regulation  49(1)(a) , P was not
entitled to receive from alpha.

51.2

The paid benefits are to be treated for all purposes—

51.2.a

as not having been paid to P by alpha, but

51.2.b

as having been paid to P instead by the PCSPS.

##### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits in relation to transferred in remediable rights


52

52.1

This regulation applies in relation to any benefits that have been paid to or
in respect of the transferred in remediable rights of an immediate choice
member (“ M ”).

52.2

Where, at the operative time—

52.2.a

the aggregate of benefits that (after taking into account the effect, if any,
of regulation  51(2) ) have been paid under the PCSPS to any person (“ the
beneficiary ”) in respect of M’s transferred in remediable rights, exceeds

52.2.b

the aggregate of the benefits to which (after taking into account the effect,
if any, of regulation  50(3)  or (5) in relation to the rights) the
beneficiary is entitled under the scheme in respect of the rights,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme.

52.3

Where, at the operative time—

52.3.a

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(a), is less than

52.3.b

the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(b),

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
beneficiary.

52.4

In this regulation, “ the operative time ” means—

52.4.a

if an immediate choice decision is made in relation to M’s remediable service,
the time the decision is made;

52.4.b

otherwise, the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M.

### Provision about special cases


#### Ill-health retirement


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


53

53.1

This Chapter applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
a process of assessment to determine M’s entitlement to ill-health benefits
began during the period of M’s remediable service.

53.2

In this Chapter—

      “ alternative scheme ” means, in relation to a person who has been
assessed for entitlement to ill-health benefits under—         the PCSPS,
alpha;           alpha, the PCSPS;                 “ ill-health benefits ”
means—         the following under rule D.4 of Section I—         a lower tier
pension (“Section I lower tier”), or           a lower tier pension and an
upper tier top up pension (“Section I upper tier”);                 an ill
health pension, whether or not with a lump sum, under rule 3.4 of Section II
(“Section II ill health benefits”);           the following under rule E.7 of
Section III—         a lower tier earned pension (“Section III lower tier”),
or           a lower tier earned pension and an upper tier top up earned
pension (“Section III upper tier”);                 the following under
regulation 74 of the 2014 Regulations—         a lower tier earned pension
(“alpha lower tier”), or           a lower tier earned pension and an upper
tier top up earned pension (“alpha upper tier”);                       “ IHR
criteria ” means the requirements in connection with a person’s health imposed
by the PCSPS or (as the case may be) the 2014 Regulations for entitlement to
ill-health benefits;           “ initial assessment ” means the process of
assessment mentioned in paragraph (1);           “ relevant time ” means the
time when the initial assessment was finally determined, and “ finally
determined ” means—         it has been determined that the member meets the
IHR criteria in a civil service scheme, or           it has been determined
that the member does not meet the ill-health retirement criteria of that
scheme, and all routes for disputing that determination have been exhausted
(including where any deadline for initiating a dispute has passed and no
dispute has been initiated);                 “ remediable ill-health benefits
” means ill-health benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable service.

##### Whether M meets the IHR criteria in M’s alternative scheme


54

54.1

Where, pursuant to the initial assessment, it has been finally determined
that—

54.1.a

M meets the IHR criteria for alpha upper tier, M is to be deemed to meet
whichever of the following is the IHR criteria in M’s relevant Chapter 1
legacy scheme—

54.1.a.i

Section I upper tier;

54.1.a.ii

Section II ill health benefits;

54.1.a.iii

Section III upper tier;

54.1.b

M meets the IHR criteria for alpha lower tier, M is to be deemed to meet
whichever of the following is the IHR criteria in M’s relevant Chapter 1
legacy scheme—

54.1.b.i

Section I lower tier;

54.1.b.ii

Section II ill health benefits;

54.1.b.iii

Section III lower tier;

54.1.c

M meets the IHR criteria for—

54.1.c.i

Section III lower tier, M is to be deemed to meet the IHR criteria for alpha
lower tier;

54.1.c.ii

Section III upper tier, M is to be deemed to meet the IHR criteria for alpha
upper tier;

54.1.d

M satisfies the severe ill-health condition, M is to be deemed to meet the IHR
criteria for all ill-health benefits in both alpha and the PCSPS;

54.1.e

M does not meet the IHR criteria for—

54.1.e.i

Section I lower tier, Section II ill health benefits or Section III lower
tier, M is to be deemed to not meet the IHR criteria for alpha lower tier or
alpha upper tier;

54.1.e.ii

Section I upper tier or Section III upper tier, M is to be deemed to not meet
the IHR criteria for alpha upper tier.

54.2

Where, pursuant to the initial assessment, it has been finally determined
that—

54.2.a

M meets the IHR criteria for alpha lower tier, and—

54.2.a.i

M’s relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme is not Section II, and

54.2.a.ii

it has not been determined that M satisfies the severe ill-health condition,

the scheme manager must determine whether M, at the relevant time, met the IHR
criteria for whichever of Section I upper tier or Section III upper tier is
the IHR criteria in M’s relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme;

54.2.b

M meets the IHR criteria for Section I lower tier, Section I upper tier or
Section II ill health benefits and it has not been determined that M satisfies
the severe ill-health condition, the scheme manager must determine whether M,
at the relevant time, met the IHR criteria for alpha lower tier or alpha upper
tier;

54.2.c

M does not meet the IHR criteria for alpha lower tier or alpha upper tier, the
scheme manager must determine whether M, at the relevant time, met the IHR
criteria for whichever of the following is M’s relevant Chapter 1 legacy
scheme—

54.2.c.i

Section I lower tier and Section I upper tier;

54.2.c.ii

Section II ill health benefits;

54.2.c.iii

Section III lower tier and Section III upper tier.

54.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply where—

54.3.a

it has been finally determined, pursuant to the initial assessment, that M
meets the IHR criteria for alpha lower tier or alpha upper tier, and

54.3.b

at the relevant time, M had reached the pension age that would have applied to
M had M been a member of the PCSPS.

54.4

In making a determination required by paragraph (2), the scheme manager must—

54.4.a

obtain the opinion of the scheme medical adviser about whether M met the
applicable IHR criteria at the relevant time, and

54.4.b

treat the opinion of the scheme medical adviser as conclusive of that
question.

54.5

In forming an opinion for the purpose of paragraph (4), the scheme medical
adviser may only have regard to—

54.5.a

the report (the “outcome report”) produced pursuant to the initial assessment
on the basis of which it was determined whether M met, or did not meet, any
IHR criteria;

54.5.b

where no outcome report is available, any other evidence which—

54.5.b.i

relates to the question of M’s entitlement to ill-health benefits which was,
or could have been, available at or before the relevant time, and

54.5.b.ii

the scheme manager considers relevant to that question.

54.6

For the purposes of this regulation, M satisfies the severe ill-health
condition if M is a person described in any of section 229(4)(a) to (c) of the
FA 2004 .

##### Deferred choice members entitled to ill-health benefits in their alternative scheme only


55

55.1

This regulation applies where—

55.1.a

it was finally determined, pursuant to the initial assessment, that M was not
entitled to any ill-health benefits under alpha,

55.1.b

it is determined, pursuant to regulation  54 , that at the relevant time M met
the IHR criteria in whichever of Section I, Section II or Section III is M’s
relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme, and

55.1.c

M is a deferred choice member.

55.2

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable following the
determination mentioned in paragraph (1)(b), send to M a written notice
setting out—

55.2.a

that an election (an “immediate IHR election”) may be made,

55.2.b

the time by which an immediate IHR election must be received by the scheme
manager, and

55.2.c

the consequences of making (or not making) an immediate IHR election.

55.3

M may make an immediate IHR election by sending notice of the election to the
scheme manager—

55.3.a

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager, and

55.3.b

so that it is received by the scheme manager no later than the end of the
period of three months beginning with the day on which the notice mentioned in
paragraph (2) is issued.

55.4

Where an immediate IHR election is made, M is, subject to paragraph (5), to be
treated—

55.4.a

for all purposes as if a deferred choice decision has been made that no
section 10 election is to be made in relation to M’s remediable service (and,
accordingly, the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable service are
PCSPS benefits),

55.4.b

as not being entitled to any benefits in respect of service in an employment
or office which—

55.4.b.i

took place on or after 1st April 2022, and

55.4.b.ii

is pensionable service under alpha;

55.4.c

as not being entitled to the payment of ill-health benefits from the PCSPS,
and

55.4.d

as being entitled to the payment of ill-health benefits which are—

55.4.d.i

of an amount that would have been determined under the PCSPS if the relevant
time had been 31st March 2022, and

55.4.d.ii

payable—

55.4.d.ii.aa

from alpha, and

55.4.d.ii.bb

from the day after M’s last day of service in an employment or office which is
capable of being pensionable service in a civil service scheme.

55.5

Where M does not leave all service in an employment or office which is capable
of being pensionable service in a civil service scheme before—

55.5.a

the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which notice
of the immediate IHR election is received by the scheme manager, or

55.5.b

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances,

M is to be treated as if the immediate IHR election had not been made (and no
subsequent immediate IHR election may be made).

55.6

An immediate IHR election is irrevocable.

55.7

The provisions of Chapter 1 of PSPJOA 2022 and of these Regulations about the
timing and effect of, as the case may be, a deferred choice decision and a
section 10 election apply subject to this regulation.

##### Remedy members entitled to ill-health benefits in their alternative scheme only


56

56.1

This regulation applies where—

56.1.a

it was finally determined, pursuant to the initial assessment, that M was not
entitled to any ill-health benefits under alpha,

56.1.b

it is determined, pursuant to regulation  54 , that at the relevant time M met
the IHR criteria in whichever of Section I, Section II or Section III is M’s
relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme, and

56.1.c

M is, or at any time was, a pensioner member of alpha in relation to their
remediable service.

56.2

Where the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable service are, by
virtue of these Regulations and PSPJOA 2022, PCSPS benefits, M is to be
treated as entitled to the payment of ill-health benefits—

56.2.a

of an amount that would have been determined under the PCSPS if the relevant
time had been 31st March 2022, and

56.2.b

payable—

56.2.b.i

from alpha, and

56.2.b.ii

from the day M became a pensioner member of alpha in relation to their
remediable service.

56.3

M is not entitled to the payment of ill-health benefits from the PCSPS.

##### Remedy members with provisional awards of ill-health pension


57

57.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remedy member who, immediately before
1st October 2023, is treated as being entitled to ill-health benefits pursuant
to—

57.1.a

rule D.6 of Section I;

57.1.b

rule E.11 of Section III;

57.1.c

regulation 75 of the 2014 Regulations.

57.2

The scheme manager must—

57.2.a

determine whether M meets the IHR criteria in M’s alternative scheme, and

57.2.b

in making that determination, obtain the opinion of the scheme medical adviser
about whether M meets the IHR criteria in M’s alternative scheme.

##### Disapplication of certain requirements


58

58.1

This regulation applies where, by virtue of these Regulations or PSPJOA 2022,
ill-health benefits determined by reference to a remedy member’s alternative
scheme are payable to a person.

58.2

Such ill-health benefits are payable irrespective of non-compliance with a
requirement imposed by the PCSPS or the 2014 Regulations for—

58.2.a

the scheme manager to approve an entitlement to ill-health benefits;

58.2.b

a person to make an application in relation to an entitlement to ill-health
benefits.

#### Miscellaneous special cases


##### Protection of the amount of pension in payment to an eligible child


59

59.1

This regulation applies where—

59.1.a

immediately before 1st October 2023, a pension (a “child pension”) is in
payment to an eligible child (“ E ”) in respect of the remediable service of a
deceased member (“ M ”),

59.1.b

there is a surviving adult (“ S ”) in relation to the deceased member,

59.1.c

E is not in the care of S, and

59.1.d

S makes an immediate choice decision which would (disregarding this
regulation) result in a decrease in the rate of the child pension payable to E
in respect of M’s remediable service.

59.2

Where this regulation applies—

59.2.a

E does not owe the scheme manager a liability under section 14(3) of PSPJOA
2022 in respect of the child pension, and

59.2.b

the rate of the child pension continues to be the rate that was payable before
the immediate choice decision was made.

##### Modification of nomination rules for Section II members


60

60.1

The regulation applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) who is entitled
to nominate a person under rule 3.8 of Section II to receive a death benefit.

60.2

Rule 3.8 of Section II applies as if it allows—

60.2.a

M to nominate—

60.2.a.i

one or more individuals,

60.2.a.ii

one incorporated or unincorporated body, or

60.2.a.iii

one or more individuals and one incorporated or unincorporated body, and

60.2.b

for the nomination to specify how payments are to be apportioned between—

60.2.b.i

two or more individuals or,

60.2.b.ii

one or more individuals and one incorporated or unincorporated body.

60.3

Where—

60.3.a

M has made a nomination (“the original nomination”) in relation to remediable
service in alpha pursuant to regulation 122 of the 2014 Regulations, and

60.3.b

M is, by virtue of the operation of PSPJOA 2022 or these Regulations, entitled
to nominate a person under rule 3.8 of Section II in relation to that
remediable service,

the original nomination continues as if it were made under rule 3.8 of Section
II as that rule applies by virtue of paragraph (2).

##### Aggregation of PCSPS membership


61

61.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”)—

61.1.a

who left pensionable service under Section I, Section II or Section III (“the
relevant Section”) before 1st April 2022,

61.1.b

who, during the period beginning with 1st April 2015 and ending at the end of
31st March 2022, began service (“subsequent service”) in an employment or
office which was pensionable under alpha,

61.1.c

whose subsequent service would, but for a relevant breach of a non-
discrimination rule, have been pensionable under the relevant Section, and

61.1.d

who would, had their subsequent service been pensionable under the relevant
Section, have been entitled to exercise an aggregation option.

61.2

When making a relevant remedy decision, the relevant decision-maker may elect
that M’s eligible remediable service is to be treated as if an aggregation
option had been exercised in relation to that service.

61.3

An election under paragraph (2) may only be made and revoked in the same
circumstances as the relevant remedy decision.

61.4

Where an election is made under paragraph (2), M’s eligible remediable service
is to be treated for all purposes as if the aggregation option had been
exercised in relation to that service.

61.5

In this regulation—

      “ aggregation option ” means—         where the relevant Section is
Section I, an option in accordance with rule G.2, G.3 or G.4 of that Section;
where the relevant Section is Section II, an option in accordance with rule
3.35 of that Section;           where the relevant Section is Section III, an
option in accordance with rule H.5 of that Section.                 “ eligible
remediable service ” means so much of M’s remediable service as was,
immediately before 1st April 2022, service under alpha;           “ relevant
decision-maker ” means, where M is—         an immediate choice member, the
immediate choice decision-maker;           a deferred choice member, the
deferred choice decision-maker;                 “ relevant remedy decision ”
means—         an immediate choice decision that no section 6 election is to
be made in relation to M’s remediable service, or           a deferred choice
decision that no section 10 election is to be made in relation to M’s
remediable service.

##### Payment of annual allowance tax charges and provision of information


62

Where a remedy member is unable to give an effective notice to the scheme
administrator under section 237B(3) of FA 2004  in relation to an in-scope tax
year (within the meaning of direction 7(7) of the PSP Directions 2022) because
the time limit in section 237BA  has passed, direction 7(2) to (6) of the PSP
Directions 2022 applies in relation to the remedy member.

### Immediate detriment cases


#### Treatment of immediate detriment cases


63

63.1

This regulation applies in relation to a person’s (“A’s”) remediable service
where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained in relation to that
service by virtue of the condition provided for in section 32(3) of PSPJOA
2022 (“the second condition”) having been met.

63.2

These Regulations and sections 2 to 30 of PSPJOA 2022 apply in relation to A’s
remediable service as they apply in relation to the remediable service of an
immediate choice member in respect of whose remediable service an immediate
choice decision has been made that no section 6 election is to be made.

63.3

Any amount paid by way of benefits or compensation pursuant to the agreement
by virtue of which the second condition has been met is to be treated for the
purposes of section 14 of PSPJOA 2022, as—

63.3.a

a lump sum benefit, if the amount was paid by way of a lump sum;

63.3.b

a pension benefit, if the amount was paid otherwise than by way of a lump sum.

### Liabilities and payment


#### Application of Part 9


##### Application of Part 9


64

This Part applies in relation to relevant amounts  owed in respect of the
remediable service of a remedy member.

#### Interest, compensation and netting off


##### Interest


65

65.1

The scheme manager must calculate interest on a relevant amount described in
direction 15 of the PSP Directions 2022 in accordance with the provisions of
directions 14 and 15 which apply to that description of relevant amount.

65.2

In relation to relevant amounts not described in direction 15 of the PSP
Directions 2022, the scheme manager must determine whether interest is paid
and, if so, what rate of interest applies and how it is calculated.

65.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2) as if it were a determination under
direction 16(1) of those Directions—

65.3.a

direction 16(2) (provision of explanation);

65.3.b

direction 16(3) and (4) (appeals).

##### Indirect compensation


66

66.1

This regulation applies where, pursuant to an application under regulation  67
, the scheme manager determines that an immediate choice member (“ M ”) has
incurred a compensatable loss  that is a Part 4 tax loss  (a “relevant loss”).

66.2

M is not to be paid an amount under section 23 of PSPJOA 2022 by of
compensation in respect of the relevant loss.

66.3

Instead, the amount of benefit payable under a civil service scheme is to be
increased to reflect the amount of the relevant loss in such manner as
determined by the scheme manager in accordance with direction 10(2) to (4) of
the PSP Directions 2022.

##### Applications for compensation or indirect compensation


67

67.1

This regulation applies in relation to—

67.1.a

the payment of a relevant amount by way of compensation under section 23(1) of
PSPJOA 2022;

67.1.b

the increase of benefits by way of indirect compensation under regulation  66
.

67.2

The relevant amount is not payable, or (as the case may be) the benefits are
not to be increased, except where—

67.2.a

an application is made in accordance with direction 18(1) and (2) of the PSP
Directions 2022,

67.2.b

the application is accompanied by such information that the scheme manager may
by written notice require the person making the application (“ P ”) to provide
in relation to the proposed compensation which is—

67.2.b.i

information within P’s possession, or

67.2.b.ii

information which P may reasonably be expected to obtain, and

67.2.c

the scheme manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 18(3) of
those Directions.

67.3

The following apply in relation to a determination in accordance with
direction 18(3) of the PSP Directions 2022—

67.3.a

direction 18(4) (provision of explanation);

67.3.b

direction 18(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Netting off


68

68.1

This regulation applies where—

68.1.a

relevant amounts owed by and to a person (“ P ”) fall to be paid at the same
time or similar times, and

68.1.b

the scheme manager has—

68.1.b.i

determined the interest (if any) that is to be paid on the relevant amounts in
accordance with regulation  65 , and

68.1.b.ii

reduced the relevant amounts by tax relief amounts in accordance with
regulation  69 .

68.2

The scheme manager may determine, in accordance with direction 19(2) to (5) of
the PSP Directions 2022, that the relevant amounts (and any interest on them)
must be aggregated and that the difference must be paid by P to the scheme or
(as the case may be) by the scheme to P.

68.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2) as if it were a determination under
direction 19(1) of those Directions—

68.3.a

direction 19(6) (provision of explanation);

68.3.b

direction 19(7) and (8) (appeals).

#### Reduction and waiver of liabilities


##### Reduction of liabilities in relation to pension contributions


69

69.1

This regulation applies where—

69.1.a

a person owes a liability to pay pension contributions in relation to the
remediable service of a remedy member, or

69.1.b

the scheme manager owes a liability to pay compensation in relation to such
service,

under section 15, 16 or 17 of PSPJOA 2022.

69.2

The scheme manager must reduce the liability by tax relief amounts —

69.2.a

determined in accordance with direction 4(5) to (9) of the PSP Directions
2022, and

69.2.b

before the liability is netted off in accordance with regulation  68 .

69.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply where the scheme
manager makes a determination under direction 4(8)—

69.3.a

direction 4(10) (provision of explanation);

69.3.b

direction 4(11) and (12) (appeals).

69.4

Paragraphs (5) and (6) apply where assets (“the transferred assets”) held for
the purposes of a partnership pension account have been transferred to the
PCSPS in relation to the PCSPS opted-out service of a remedy member (“ M ”) in
accordance with the condition mentioned in regulation  6(6)(c)(i) .

69.5

The scheme manager—

69.5.a

must reduce a liability mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) owed in relation to M’s
remediable service by an amount equal to the value of the transferred assets
which was, immediately before the transfer, referable to employee pension
contributions made by or on behalf of M in respect of M’s PCSPS opted-out
service;

69.5.b

must not reduce such a liability by reference to the value of the transferred
assets which was, immediately before the transfer, referable to any other
source.

69.6

Where the value of the transferred assets mentioned in paragraph (5)(a) is
greater than the liability mentioned in paragraph (1)(a), the scheme manager
owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal representatives an amount equal
to the difference.

69.7

In this regulation, “ PCSPS opted-out service ” has the meaning given in
regulation  5(2) .

##### Power to reduce or waive amounts owed by a person to the scheme manager


70

70.1

The scheme manager may reduce or waive an amount owed by a person to the
scheme under—

70.1.a

section 14, 15, 16 or 17 of PSPJOA 2022, or

70.1.b

these Regulations.

70.2

When reducing or waiving an amount under paragraph (1), the scheme manager
must comply with the requirements set out in direction 4(1)(a) to (c) of the
PSP Directions 2022 (and the reference in direction 4(1)(c) to “any scheme
regulations made by virtue of section 26(1)(b) of PSPJOA 2022” is to be read
as a reference to regulation  73 ).

##### Agreement to waive a liability owed by the scheme manager in respect of an immediate correction


71

71.1

This regulation applies where the scheme manager owes a liability to pay
compensation to a person (“ P ”) under section 16(3) of PSPJOA 2022.

71.2

The scheme manager and P may agree to waive the liability.

71.3

Such an agreement—

71.3.a

must be in writing,

71.3.b

may be rescinded with the agreement of the scheme manager and P, and

71.3.c

in any event ceases to apply where—

71.3.c.i

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to the remediable
service in respect of which the compensation is payable has passed, and

71.3.c.ii

no section 10 election is made, or deemed to have been made, in relation to
that remediable service.

71.4

Where an agreement is rescinded or otherwise ceases to apply, the scheme
manager owes P the liability mentioned in paragraph (1).

#### Payment of net liabilities


##### Application of Chapter 4


72

This Chapter applies in respect of a relevant amount (together with any
interest on that amount) which will be payable after taking into account the
effect, if any, of regulations  65  to  71  (a “net liability”).

##### Payment of amounts owed to the scheme manager


73

73.1

This regulation applies where a person (“ P ”) has a net liability to the
scheme manager within the meaning of regulation  72 .

73.2

The scheme manager must send notice in writing to P setting out—

73.2.a

how the net liability has been calculated,

73.2.b

an explanation of the circumstances in which the net liability may be reduced
or waived under regulation  70 ,

73.2.c

where the net liability has been calculated by reference to an amount by way
of compensation under section 16(3) of PSPJOA 2022, an explanation of the
agreement that may be made under regulation  71 ,

73.2.d

when and how the net liability must be paid, and

73.2.e

the consequences of not paying the net liability.

73.3

Where—

73.3.a

the scheme manager has sent a notice under paragraph (2), and

73.3.b

the amount of the net liability is subsequently adjusted,

the scheme manager must send another notice in writing to P under paragraph
(2).

73.4

P must pay the amount of the net liability to the scheme manager—

73.4.a

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the day after the
day on which P receives the most recent notice under paragraph (2), or

73.4.b

in accordance with an agreement under paragraph (5).

73.5

P and the scheme manager may agree that the net liability is to be paid in
part or in full—

73.5.a

by way of instalments, or

73.5.b

by way of deductions from any benefits (including a lump sum benefit) to which
P is entitled under a civil service scheme.

73.6

P and the scheme manager may agree to vary an agreement under paragraph (5).

73.7

Where P does not pay any amount that falls due by virtue of paragraph (4)(a)
or an agreement under paragraph (5), the scheme manager may deduct such sums
from benefits payable to P under a civil service scheme as seem reasonable to
the scheme manager for the purpose of discharging P’s liability.

73.8

P has no liability to pay any amount on account of the net liability until the
time for payment arises in accordance with this regulation or an agreement
under this regulation, and until that time the scheme manager has no cause of
action for the recovery of any such amount (whether for the purposes of the
Limitation Act 1980  or otherwise).

##### Payment of amounts owed to a person


74

74.1

This regulation applies where the scheme manager owes a net liability to a
person (“ P ”).

74.2

The scheme manager must pay the amount of the net liability to P—

74.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the scheme manager determines the
amount of the net liability, or

74.2.b

where the scheme manager requires P to provide information in accordance with
paragraph (3), as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of that
information.

74.3

Before paying the amount of a net liability owed to P, the scheme manager may
by written notice given as soon as reasonably practicable after the scheme
manager determines the amount of the net liability, require P to provide
information in relation to the net liability which is—

74.3.a

information which is within P’s possession, or

74.3.b

information which P may reasonably be expected to obtain.

      Alex Burghart   Minister for the Cabinet Office     1st September 2023
We consent       Steve Double   Andrew Stephenson   Two of the Lords
Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury     4th September 2023

  Eligible decision-makers for deceased members

Regulations 4(3), 6(2), 8(2) and 12(2)

##### Interpretation


1

1.1

In this Schedule—

      “ beneficiary ” means a person who has become entitled to receive any
death benefit;           “child”, except in the term “eligible child”, means a
person under the age of 18;           “ death benefit ” means a benefit
payable on the death of a member under—         Part 8 of the 2014
Regulations;           Part E of Section I;           section 4 of Section II;
Part F of Section III;                 “ decision ” means an opted-out service
election, an immediate choice decision or a deferred choice decision;
“ eligible decision-maker ” means a person who may make—         an opted-out
service election in accordance with regulation  6(2)(b) ;           an
immediate choice decision in accordance with regulation  8(2)(b) ;           a
deferred choice decision in accordance with regulation  12(2)(b) ;
“ surviving adult ” means—         a surviving spouse;           a surviving
civil partner;           in relation to—         alpha, a surviving partner
within the meaning of regulation 101 of the 2014 Regulations;
Section I, a surviving adult dependant within the meaning of rule E.2 of that
Section;           Section III, a surviving adult dependant within the meaning
of rule F.2 of that Section.

1.2

In this Schedule, a reference to—

1.2.a

a beneficiary is a reference to a beneficiary of death benefits in relation to
M’s remediable service;

1.2.b

an eligible child is a reference to an eligible child of M;

1.2.c

M is a reference to the deceased remedy member in respect of whose remediable
service an election may be made;

1.2.d

a surviving adult is a reference to a surviving adult in relation to M.

##### Sole beneficiary: an adult


2

Where a person is—

2.a

the sole beneficiary, and

2.b

an adult,

the eligible decision-maker is that person.

##### Sole beneficiary: a child


3

Where a person (“ A ”) is—

3.a

the sole beneficiary, and

3.b

a child,

the eligible decision-maker is A’s parent or guardian.

##### Sole beneficiary: a body


4

Where a body (whether corporate or unincorporated) is the sole beneficiary,
the eligible decision-maker is—

4.a

M’s personal representative, or

4.b

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Sole beneficiary: M’s estate


5

Where M’s estate is the sole beneficiary, the eligible decision-maker is M’s
personal representative.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: including a surviving adult


6

Where—

6.a

two or more adults are the only beneficiaries, and

6.b

one of those adults (“ B ”) is a surviving adult,

the eligible decision-maker is B.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: including adult eligible children


7

7.1

Where—

7.1.a

two or more adults are the only beneficiaries,

7.1.b

none of those adults is a surviving adult, and

7.1.c

two or more of those adults are eligible children,

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2).

7.2

The eligible decision-maker is—

7.2.a

the person agreed upon by the adult eligible children, or

7.2.b

where no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the
scheme manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance
with these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: nominated individuals only


8

8.1

Where—

8.1.a

two or more adults (the “nominated adults”) are beneficiaries of lump sum
death benefits, and

8.1.b

none of the following are beneficiaries—

8.1.b.i

a surviving adult, or

8.1.b.ii

an eligible child (whether or not an adult),

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2).

8.2

The eligible decision-maker is—

8.2.a

M’s personal representative;

8.2.b

where M has no personal representative, the person agreed upon by the
nominated adults;

8.2.c

where—

8.2.c.i

M has no personal representative, and

8.2.c.ii

no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the scheme
manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance with
these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager,

the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: non-adult eligible children


9

Where the only beneficiaries are children, two or more of whom are eligible
children, the eligible decision-maker is—

9.a

where one person has parental responsibility for all the eligible children,
that person;

9.b

otherwise—

9.b.i

M’s personal representative, or

9.b.ii

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: nominated children only


10

Where the only beneficiaries are two or more children who are not eligible
children, the eligible decision-maker is—

10.a

where one person has parental responsibility for all the children, that
person;

10.b

otherwise—

10.b.i

M’s personal representative, or

10.b.ii

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: one or more adults and one or more children


11

11.1

Where the beneficiaries include one or more adults and one or more children—

11.1.a

M’s personal representative is the eligible decision-maker;

11.1.b

where M has no personal representative, and—

11.1.b.i

one of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult, that surviving adult is the
eligible decision-maker;

11.1.b.ii

none of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult and—

11.1.b.ii.aa

one or more of the beneficiaries is an eligible child, or

11.1.b.ii.bb

none of the beneficiaries is an eligible child,

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2).

11.2

Where sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii) applies, and—

11.2.a

all relevant children are under 18 and—

11.2.a.i

have the same guardian, the eligible-decision maker is that guardian;

11.2.a.ii

do not have the same guardian, the eligible decision-maker is the scheme
manager;

11.2.b

all relevant children are 18 or over, the eligible decision-maker is—

11.2.b.i

the person agreed upon by those relevant children, or

11.2.b.ii

where no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the
scheme manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance
with these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager, the scheme manager;

11.2.c

one or more relevant children are under 18 and one or more of the relevant
children are 18 or over, the eligible decision-maker is the person agreed upon
by—

11.2.c.i

the relevant children who are 18 or over, and

11.2.c.ii

the guardian of the relevant children who are under 18.

11.3

In sub-paragraph (2), “ relevant children ” means—

11.3.a

where sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii)(aa) applies, eligible children;

11.3.b

where sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii)(bb) applies, a person who is a beneficiary and
who meets any of conditions A, B or C as set out in regulation 113(2), (3) and
(4) of the 2014 Regulations.

##### Other cases


12

In any case not covered by paragraphs 2 to 11, the eligible decision-maker is
the scheme manager.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Public Service Pensions Act  2013 (c. 25)  (“PSPA 2013”) makes
provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “
scheme regulations ” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2013), about the
establishment of public service pension schemes. The Public Service (Civil
Servants and Others) Pensions Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1964 ) (“ the 2014
Regulations ”) are the scheme regulations establishing alpha, the successor
civil service pension scheme to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme
(“the PCSPS”). The 2014 Regulations provided for transitional protection for
certain cohorts of PCSPS members. This transitional protection was
subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between civil service pension
scheme members on the basis of age.

  The Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA
2022”), at Chapter 1, makes provision, and confers powers for scheme
regulations under PSPA 2013 to make further provision, in relation to
specified service (“ remediable service ” as defined in section 1 of PSPJOA
2022) of members who benefitted from transitional protection, and of members
who did not benefit from transitional protection only by reason of their age.
Section 27 of PSPJOA 2022 requires certain powers to make scheme regulations
to be exercised in accordance with Treasury directions.

  These Regulations are scheme regulations under PSPA 2013 and in accordance
with PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in the PCSPS and
alpha. They are, to the extent required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022, made in
accordance with Treasury directions under that section (in the form of the
Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and Information)
Directions 2022). These Regulations have retrospective effect, which is
authorised by section 3(3)(b) of PSPA 2013.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision about when and to whom a
remediable service statement is to be provided by the scheme manager (as
defined in regulation 2(1)), as well as the contents of the remediable service
statement.

  Part 3 makes provision about the principal decisions that may be made in
relation to a member’s remediable service—     a     Chapter 1 makes provision
about when and how an election may be made for service in respect of which a
member opted-out of alpha to be reinstated and treated as remediable service;
b     Chapter 2 makes provision about when and how a decision may be made, or
be deemed to have been made, about whether the remediable service of a
pensioner or deceased member (an “immediate choice member”) is to be treated
as service in the PCSPS or in alpha;         c     Chapter 3 makes provision
similar to Chapter 2, but in relation to the remediable service of an active
or deferred member (a “deferred choice member”).

  Part 4 makes provision about cases in which the pension rights secured by
virtue of a member’s remediable service are at issue in proceedings relating
to the member’s separation from a spouse or civil partner—     a     Chapter 1
makes provision about sharing the value of such rights under a pension sharing
order where they are subject to a pension debit under section 29 of the
Welfare Reform and Pensions Act  1999 (c. 30) . It provides, in particular,
for the calculation or, where appropriate, the re-calculation of the value of
a pension debit and a pension credit in relation to the rights;         b
Chapter 2 makes provision about the calculation of the value of rights for the
purposes of sharing those rights under an arrangement other than a pension
sharing order.

  Part 5 makes provision about lump sum voluntary contributions paid by a
member during the period of their remediable service, and periodical
contributions paid by a member under an arrangement which commenced during the
period of their remediable service, to secure additional pension rights—     a
Chapter 1 makes provision about rights to additional pension secured in the
PCSPS or alpha in accordance with which rights are conferred or, where
relevant, varied so that they reflect the value of rights that would have been
secured in the civil service pension scheme in respect of which the member’s
pension benefits secured by virtue of their remediable service ultimately
become payable;         b     Chapter 2 makes provision about rights to
effective pension age or enhanced effective pension age secured in alpha in
accordance with which, on a decision for the member’s remediable service to be
treated as service in the PCSPS, the rights are either converted into PCSPS
additional pension or they are extinguished and compensation is paid in
relation to them;         c     Chapter 3 makes provision which causes
additional pension rights secured in, and benefits in relation to such rights
paid out of, alpha to be treated as secured in, or paid out of, the PCSPS, and
for financial corrections of any pension benefits paid in respect of the
remediable service of an immediate choice member in relation to such rights;
d     Chapter 4 makes provision enabling a member who did not have the
opportunity to elect to purchase rights to effective pension age or enhanced
effective pension age in respect of remediable service to do so
retrospectively.

  Part 6 makes provision about transfers in and out of a civil service pension
scheme of pension rights during the period of a member’s remediable service—
a     Chapter 1 makes provision about, among other things, the provision of a
remediable service statement to a person who has transferred out rights in
respect of remediable service and in respect of whom a remediable service
statement is not otherwise required to be provided;         b     Chapter 2
makes provision about transfers in and out of a civil service pension scheme
on a cash equivalent basis, including provision about the calculation (and,
where appropriate, the recalculation) of the value of a cash equivalent
transfer value, and the making and accepting of payments in relation to the
transfer value of rights secured by virtue of remediable service;         c
Chapter 3 makes provision similar to Chapter 2, but in relation to transfers
in and out of a civil service pension scheme on a club basis;         d
Chapter 4 makes provision for—     i     transfers into alpha in respect of
rights secured by virtue of remediable service to be treated as being
transferred into the PCSPS;         ii     rights transferred into the PCSPS
to be varied so that they reflect the value of rights in the civil service
pension scheme in respect of which rights secured by virtue of a member’s
remediable service ultimately become payable;         iii     financial
corrections of any pension benefits paid in respect of the transferred-in
rights of an immediate choice member.

  Part 7 makes provision about special cases—     a     Chapter 1 makes
provision about the reassessment of ill-health retirement applications which
may have been treated differently if they had been assessed in a member’s
alternative civil service pension scheme;         b     Chapter 2 makes
provision about—     i     protecting the amount of any child pension which is
already in payment so that it will not be reduced as a result of PSPJOA 2022
or these Regulations;         ii     ensuring that a member of Section II of
the PCSPS has the same rights in relation to nominating persons to receive a
death benefit as members of alpha and of Sections I and III of the PCSPS;
iii     allowing members who would, but for the transitional protection, have
been able to aggregate separate periods of pensionable service in the PCSPS.

  Part 8 makes provision cases in which a person has already obtained a remedy
in relation to their remediable service. Such persons are treated for the
purposes of PSPJOA 2022 and these Regulations as if they were an immediate
choice member who has elected to receive PCSPS benefits in relation to their
remediable service.

  Part 9 makes provision about any amounts (“relevant amounts”) owed to or by
a person as a result of PSPJOA 2022 or these Regulations—     a     Chapter 2
makes provision for the calculation of interest on relevant amounts, for the
increase of benefits instead of the payment of a relevant amount, for the
making of an application where a person wishes to claim compensation, and for
the netting off of relevant amounts owed to and by a person;         b
Chapter 3 makes provision about the reduction and waiver of relevant amounts,
in particular a requirement for the scheme manager to reduce some relevant
amounts by tax relief amount, the discretion of the scheme manager to reduce
or waive relevant amounts owed by a person to a scheme in certain
circumstances, and the option to defer payment of certain relevant amounts
owed to a member until an election is made in relation to the member’s
remediable service;         c     Chapter 4 makes provision about when and how
relevant amounts must be paid.

  An impact assessment has not been completed for these Regulations. An
Explanatory Memorandum has been published alongside these Regulations on
http://www.legislation.gov.uk .

