Title: The A47 Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023
Date: 2024-05-16
Description: This Order authorises National Highways Limited to improve the A47 between Wansford and Sutton in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/218

## The A47 Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   17th February 2023

  Coming into force   10th March 2023

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.       The
application was examined by a single appointed person (appointed by the
Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The
single appointed person, having considered the representations made and not
withdrawn and the application together with the accompanying documents, in
accordance with section 83 of the 2008 Act has submitted a report and
recommendation to the Secretary of State.       The Secretary of State, having
considered the representations made and not withdrawn, and the report and
recommendation of the single appointed person, has decided to make an Order
granting development consent for the development described in the application
with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State do not make
any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the application.
The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114 ,
115 , 117 , 120 , 122  and 123  of, and paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to 17, 19 to 23,
26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1 Schedule 5  to, the 2008 Act, makes the following
Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the A47 Wansford to Sutton Development Consent
Order 2023 and comes into force on 10th March 2023.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

“ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ the 1965 Act ” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act
1980 ; “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ; “ the 1984 Act ” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ; “ the
1990 Act ” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ the 1991 Act ”
means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ; “ the 2004 Act ” means the
Traffic Management Act 2004 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ; “
address ” includes any number or address for the purposes of electronic
transmission; “ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited (company
number 2366656), whose registered office is at Lancaster House, Lancaster Way,
Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom, PE29 6XU (or
a related subsidiary company); “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3
of the 1991 Act; “ authorised development ” means the development and
associated development described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and
any other development authorised by this Order; “ book of reference ” means
the document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
book of reference for the purposes of this Order and set out in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified); “ bridleway ” has the same meaning as in section
329(1) (further provisions as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act; “ building ”
includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or
erection; “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the
1980 Act; “ classification of roads plans ” means the documents of that
description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the classification of roads plans for
the purposes of this Order; “ commence ” means beginning to carry out any
material operation (as defined in section 56(4)  of the 1990 Act) forming part
of the authorised development other than operations consisting of
archaeological investigations and mitigation works, ecological surveys and
pre-construction ecological mitigation, investigations for the purpose of
assessing and monitoring ground conditions and levels, remedial work in
respect of any contamination or other adverse ground conditions, erection of
any temporary means of enclosure, receipt and erection of construction plant,
equipment, welfare facilities and temporary buildings, diversion and laying of
underground apparatus including site clearance, and the temporary display of
site notices or advertisements, and “ commencement ” is to be construed
accordingly; “ cycle track ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the
1980 Act  and for the purposes of this Order includes parts of a cycle track
and a right of way on foot; “detrunking plans” mean the documents of that
description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the detrunking plans for the purposes
of this Order; “ electronic transmission ” means a communication transmitted—
by means of an electronic communications network; or by other means but while
in electronic form;

and in this definition “ electronic communications network ” has the same
meaning as is in section 32(1) (meaning of electronic communications networks
and services) of the Communications Act 2003 ;

“ engineering drawings and sections ” means the documents of that description
referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by the
Secretary of State as the engineering drawings and sections for the purposes
of this Order; “ environmental statement ” means the document of that
description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the environmental statement for the
purposes of this Order; “ footpath ” and “ footway ” have the same meaning as
in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act; “ general arrangement plans ” means the
documents of that description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the general arrangement
plans for the purposes of this Order; “ hedgerow plans ” means the documents
of that description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the hedgerow plans for the purposes of
this Order; “ highway ” has the same meaning as in section 328(1) (meaning of
“ highway ”) of the 1980 Act; “ highway authority ” means the undertaker; “
land plans ” means the documents of that description referred to in Schedule
10 (documents to be certified) and certified as the land plans by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ limits of deviation ”
means the limits of deviation referred to in article 8 (limits of deviation);
“ local highway authority ” means Peterborough City Council; “ maintain ”,
in relation to the authorised development, includes to inspect, repair,
adjust, alter, remove, replace or reconstruct, provided such works do not give
rise to any materially new or materially different environmental effects in
comparison with those reported in the environmental statement and any
derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed accordingly; “ NGED ” means
National Grid Distribution (East Midlands) plc (company number 02366923) whose
registered office is at Avonbank, Feeder Road, Bristol, BS2 0TB; “ NGG ” means
National Grid Gas Plc (company number 02006000) whose registered office is at
1-3 The Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor as a gas transporter within
the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 as the context requires; “ Order
land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is within the limits of
the land to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily and described in
the book of reference; “ Order limits ” means the limits of land to be
acquired or used temporarily as shown on the land plans and works plans within
which the authorised development may be carried out; “ outline traffic
management plan ” means the document of that description referred to in
Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of
State as the outline traffic management plan for the purposes of this Order; “
owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7
(interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ; “ public communications
provider ” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) (interpretation of
Chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003 ; “ relevant planning authority ”
means in any given provision of this Order the planning authority for the area
in which the land to which the provision relates is situated; “ rights of way
and access plans ” means the documents of that description referred to in
Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of
State as the rights of way and access plans for the purposes of this Order; “
statutory undertaker ” means any statutory undertaker for the purposes of
section 127(8) (statutory undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act; “ street ” means
a street within the meaning of section 48  (streets, street works and
undertakers) of the 1991 Act, together with land on the verge of a street or
between two carriageways, and includes part of a street; “ street authority ”,
in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; “
traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A  (traffic
authorities) of the 1984 Act; “ traffic regulation plans ” means   the
documents of   that description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the traffic regulation
plans for the purposes of this Order; “ tribunal ” means the Lands Chamber of
the Upper Tribunal; “ trunk road ” means a highway which is a trunk road by
virtue of— section 10  (general provision as to trunk roads) or section 19(1)
(certain special roads and other highways to become trunk roads) of the 1980
Act; an order made or direction given under section 10 of that Act; or an
order granting development consent; or any other enactment; “ undertaker ”
means National Highways Limited, company number 09346363, whose registered
office is at Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4LZ; “
watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts,
culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except
a public sewer or drain; and “ works plans ” means the documents of that
description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the works plans for the purposes of
this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

3

3.1

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles  34  (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and  35  (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) of this Order do not apply in relation
to the construction of works carried out for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

3.2

Section 32 (variation of awards) of the Land Drainage Act 1991  does not apply
in relation to the construction of any work or the carrying out of any
operation required for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction
of the authorised development.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

4

4.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the person responsible.

4.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

5

5.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out and operated within the Order limits.

5.2

Any enactment applying to land within the Order limits or land adjacent to the
Order limits has effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

5.3

In this article “ land adjacent to the Order limits ” means any land outside
but adjacent to the Order limits which is reasonably necessary to construct or
maintain the authorised development or any section or part of the authorised
development.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

6

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Planning permission

7

If planning permission is granted under the powers conferred by the 1990 Act
for development any part of which is within the Order limits following the
coming into force of this Order that is—

7.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

7.b

required to complete or enable the use or operation of any part of the
development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of
the planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this
Order.

#### Limits of deviation

8

8.1

In constructing Work Nos. 1, 2, 6, 11, 12, 13, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 37, 40,
41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 51, 53 and 55 the undertaker may—

8.1.a

deviate laterally from the centrelines shown on the works plans to the extent
that the situation of the centreline is varied by up to a maximum of 3 metres
either side of the centreline of that work as shown on the works plans
provided the works do not extend beyond the Order limits; and

8.1.b

deviate by up to 3 metres from the points of commencement and termination.

8.2

In constructing any other work comprised in the authorised development the
undertaker must construct any such work within the lateral limits of deviation
shown on the works plan for the relevant work except that these maximum limits
of lateral deviation and commencement and termination limits of deviation do
not apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to the Secretary of
State’s satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following consultation with
the relevant planning authority, certifies accordingly that a deviation in
excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects from those reported in the environmental
statement.

8.3

In carrying out any work comprised in the authorised development the
undertaker may deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised
development shown on the engineering drawings and sections, to a maximum of 1
metre upwards or 1 metre downwards, except that these maximum limits of
vertical deviation do not apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to
the Secretary of State’s satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority, certifies accordingly that
a deviation in excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to article  10  (consent to transfer benefit of Order) and paragraph
(2) , the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have
effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

9.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the works for which the consent is granted
by this Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land,
statutory undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised
development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

10

10.1

Subject to paragraph  (5)  the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

10.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; or

10.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

10.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph  (1)  references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph  (5) , include references
to the transferee or the lessee.

10.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph  (1)  is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

10.4

If the benefit of the provisions of this Order relating to compulsory
acquisition is transferred or granted to a transferee or lessee pursuant to
this article and the transferee or lessee exercises those powers then the
undertaker alone is liable for any compensation that is payable to another
party as a consequence of the exercise of those powers by the transferee or
lessee.

10.5

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for a transfer or grant
under this article, except where the transfer or grant is made to—

10.5.a

Anglian Water for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 27 and 49;

10.5.b

NGED for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 3, 5, 8, 9, 14, 18, 26, 29, 36,
48, 52, 54, 57 and 58; or

10.5.c

NGG for the purposes of undertaking Work No. 4.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

11

11.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

11.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

11.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the local highway authority,
might have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 64
(dual carriageways and roundabouts) or 184  (vehicle crossings over footways
and verges) of the 1980 Act.

11.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph  (1)
, to be construed as references to the undertaker.

11.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

11.3.a

section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works);

11.3.b

section 56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);

11.3.c

section 58  (restrictions on works following substantial road works);

11.3.d

section 58A  (restriction on works following substantial street works);

11.3.e

section 73A (power to require undertaker to re-surface street);

11.3.f

section 73B (power to specify timing etc. of re-surfacing);

11.3.g

section 73C (materials, workmanship and standard of re-surfacing);

11.3.h

section 78A (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by undertaker); and

11.3.i

Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial street works).

11.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph  (5)  (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in
relation to any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a
temporary nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article  16
(temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets) whether or not the
stopping up, alteration or diversion constitutes street works within the
meaning of that Act.

11.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act referred to in paragraph  (4)  are—

11.5.a

section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph  (6) ;

11.5.b

section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph  (6) ;

11.5.c

section 57  (notice of emergency works);

11.5.d

section 59  (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works);

11.5.e

section 60   (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

11.5.f

section 68   (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

11.5.g

section 69   (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

11.5.h

section 75 (inspection fees);

11.5.i

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and

11.5.j

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route).

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

11.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph  (4)  have effect
as if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

11.7

Nothing in article  12  (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

11.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act;

11.7.b

means that the undertaker is, by reason of any duty under that article to
maintain a street, to be taken to be the street authority in relation to that
street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

11.7.c

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, to which the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act
apply.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

12

12.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road) to be constructed under this Order must
be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority in
whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the
local highway authority, the highway including any culverts or other
structures laid under it must be maintained by and at the expense of the local
highway authority from its completion.

12.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road) is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.3

Where a footpath, cycle track or bridleway is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.4

Where a street which is not and is not intended to be a public highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, unless otherwise agreed in writing, be maintained by
and at the expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 months from its
completion and at the expiry of that period by and at the expense of the
street authority.

12.5

Where a highway is detrunked under this Order—

12.5.a

section 265  (transfer of property and liabilities upon a highway becoming or
ceasing to be a trunk road) of the 1980 Act applies in respect of that
highway; and

12.5.b

any alterations to that highway undertaken under powers conferred by this
Order prior to and in connection with that detrunking must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, be maintained by and at
the expense of the local highway authority from the date of detrunking.

12.6

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a trunk road) over a trunk road, the highway surface (being those
elements over the waterproofing membrane) must be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the local highway authority, and the remainder of
the bridge, including the waterproofing membrane, and structure below,
parapets and any system of lighting must be maintained by and at the expense
of the undertaker.

12.7

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

12.8

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph  (7) , the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

12.8.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

12.8.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

12.8.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

12.8.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

12.8.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and the competent
person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads, etc.

13

13.1

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 1 (trunk roads) of
Schedule 3 (classification of roads, etc) and identified on the classification
of roads plans are completed and open for traffic, they are to become trunk
roads as if they had become so by virtue of an order under section 10(2)
(general provision as to trunk roads) of the 1980 Act specifying that date as
the date on which they were to become trunk roads.

13.2

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 2 (classified C
roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the classification of roads plans are
completed and open for traffic, they are to become classified roads for the
purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to highways classified as
classified roads as if such classification had been made under section 12(3)
(general provision as to principal and classified roads) of the 1980 Act.

13.3

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 3 (unclassified
roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the classification of roads plans are
completed and open for traffic, they are to become unclassified roads for the
purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to unclassified roads.

13.4

On and after the date on which the roads specified in Part 4 (speed limits) of
Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private means of access &
provision of new highways and private means of access) and identified on the
traffic regulation plans are open for traffic, no person is to drive any motor
vehicle at a speed exceeding the limit in miles per hour specified in column
(3) of that Part along the lengths of road identified in the corresponding row
of column (2) of that Part.

13.5

On such day as the undertaker may determine, the order specified in column (3)
of Part 5 (revocations and variations of existing traffic regulation orders)
of Schedule 3 is to be varied or revoked as specified in the corresponding row
of column (4) of that Part in respect of the lengths of roads specified in the
corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.6

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the local highway authority, the
footpaths, cycle tracks, footways and bridleways set out in Part 6 (footpaths,
cycle tracks, footways and bridleways) of Schedule 3 and identified on the
rights of way and access plans are to be constructed by the undertaker in the
specified locations and open for use from the date on which the authorised
development is open for traffic.

13.7

On the date on which the roads described in Part 7 (roads to be detrunked) of
Schedule 3 and identified on the detrunking plans are completed and open for
traffic, they are to cease to be trunk roads as if they had ceased to be trunk
roads by virtue of an order made under section 5(2)(a) of the 1980 Act
specifying that date as the date on which they were to cease to be trunk
roads.

13.8

The application of paragraphs  (1)  to  (7)  may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

14

14.1

Subject to paragraph  (3) , the undertaker may, for the purposes of
constructing and maintaining the authorised development, alter the layout of
any street within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a
junction with such a street; and, without limitation on the scope of this
paragraph, the undertaker may—

14.1.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the street;

14.1.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such kerb, footway, cycle track
or verge;

14.1.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street; and

14.1.d

make and maintain passing places.

14.2

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this article to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

14.3

The powers conferred by paragraph  (1) —

14.3.a

are exercisable on the giving of not less than 42 days’ notice to the street
authority; and

14.3.b

are not to be exercised without the consent of the street authority where that
authority is a public authority.

14.4

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph  (3)  fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end
of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

14.5

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (4) apply to that application.

14.6

Paragraphs  (2) ,  (3)  and  (4)  do not apply where the undertaker is the
street authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

#### Street works

15

15.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

15.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

15.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street; or carry out works to strengthen or repair
the carriageway;

15.1.c

place and keep apparatus in or under the street;

15.1.d

maintain, renew or alter apparatus in the street or change its position;

15.1.e

demolish, remove, replace and relocate any street furniture;

15.1.f

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines;

15.1.g

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

15.1.h

carry out re-lining and placement of road markings;

15.1.i

remove and install temporary and permanent signage; and

15.1.j

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
sub-paragraphs  (a)  to (i).

15.2

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  is a statutory right for the purposes
of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

15.3

The provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works
carried out under paragraph  (1) .

#### Temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets

16

16.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily stop up, alter, divert, prohibit the use of or
restrict the use of any street and may for any reasonable time—

16.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

16.1.b

subject to paragraph  (3) , prevent all persons from passing along the street.

16.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may use any
street temporarily stopped up, altered, diverted or restricted under the
powers conferred by this article, and which is within the Order limits, as a
temporary working site.

16.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration,
diversion or restriction of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

16.4

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, alter, divert or restrict the use
of any street for which it is not the street authority without the consent of
the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent
but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

16.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

16.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph  (4)  fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end
of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

16.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of access

17

17.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets and private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts
1, 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private
means of access & provision of new highways and private means of access) and
identified on the rights of way and access plans to the extent specified and
described in column (3) of those Parts of that Schedule.

17.2

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
2 or Part 3 of Schedule 4 (being a highway or private means of access to be
stopped up for which a substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly
stopped up under this article unless—

17.2.a

the new highway or private means of access to be constructed and substituted
for it, which is specified in column (4) of those Parts of that Schedule, has
been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is
open for use; or

17.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street or private means of access to be stopped up is first provided
and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, between the commencement and termination points for
the stopping up of the highway or private means of access until the completion
and opening of the new highway or private means of access in accordance with
sub-paragraph  (a) .

17.3

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
1 or Part 4 of Schedule 4 (being a street or private means of access to be
stopped up for which no substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or
partly stopped up under this article unless the condition specified in
paragraph  (4)  is satisfied in relation to all the land which abuts on either
side of the street or private means of access to be stopped up.

17.4

The condition referred to in paragraph  (3)  is that—

17.4.a

the undertaker is in possession of the land;

17.4.b

there is no right of access to the land from the street or private means of
access concerned;

17.4.c

there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the
street or private means of access concerned; or

17.4.d

the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up.

17.5

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, alter the private means of access specified in column (1) of Part
5 of Schedule 4 as specified in column (2) of that Part.

17.6

Where a street or private means of access has been stopped up under this
article—

17.6.a

all rights of way over or along the street or private means of access so
stopped up are extinguished; and

17.6.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street or private means of access as is
bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

17.7

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

17.8

This article is subject to article  37  (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

18

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways

19

19.1

Except as provided in paragraph (2), on and after such day as the undertaker
may determine, no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part
of the lengths of road described in column (2) of Part 8 (traffic regulation
measures (clearways and prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 (classification of roads,
etc.) and identified on the traffic regulation plans where it is specified in
the corresponding row of column (3) of that Part that such lengths of road are
to become a clearway, except upon the direction of, or with the permission of,
a constable or traffic officer in uniform.

19.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) applies—

19.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

19.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

19.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

19.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, inspection, maintenance, alteration, repair, renewal or
removal in or near the road of any sewer, main pipe, conduit, wire, cable, or
other apparatus for the supply of gas, water, electricity or any electronic
communications apparatus as defined in Schedule 1 (the electronic
communications code) to the Communications Act 2003 ; or

19.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

19.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

19.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes,

19.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

19.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

19.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Services (Universal Postal Service)
Order 2012 ; or

19.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

19.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

19.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

19.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

19.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

19.4

Paragraphs (1) to  (3)  have effect as if made by order under the 1984 Act,
and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under that Act
or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation of such
orders.

19.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the 2004 Act.

#### Traffic regulation

20

20.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

20.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

20.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

20.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

20.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

20.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

20.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

20.3

The power conferred by paragraph  (2)  may be exercised at any time prior to
the expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for
public use but subject to paragraph  (7)  any prohibition, restriction or
other provision made under paragraph  (2)  may have effect both before and
after the expiry of that period.

20.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph  (5) .

20.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)
unless the undertaker has—

20.5.a

given not less than—

20.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

20.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

20.5.b

advertised the undertaker’s intention in such manner as the traffic authority
may specify in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the
undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph  (a)(i) , or within 7 days
of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-
paragraph  (a)(ii) .

20.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph  (2) —

20.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

20.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

20.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces) of the 1984
Act ,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

20.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the 2004 Act.

20.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  within a period of 24
months from the opening of the authorised development.

20.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  the undertaker must
consult such persons as the undertaker considers necessary and appropriate and
must take into consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any
such person.

20.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

20.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

20.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph  (2)  the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

20.12

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (11) apply to that application.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

21

21.1

Subject to paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) , the undertaker may use any watercourse
or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

21.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or use of a public sewer
or drain by the undertaker under paragraph  (1)  is to be determined as if it
were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers) of
the Water Industry Act 1991 .

21.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

21.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

21.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

21.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

21.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid
substance, oil or matter in suspension.

21.6

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

21.7

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph  (3)  or
approval under paragraph  (4)  fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

21.8

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph  (7)  apply to that application.

21.9

In this article—

21.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

21.9.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991 have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Protective work to buildings

22

22.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

22.2

Protective works may be carried out—

22.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development;

22.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

22.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may (subject to paragraph (5)) enter and survey any
building falling within paragraph  (1)  and any land within its curtilage.

22.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

22.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

22.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

22.5

Before exercising—

22.5.a

a right under paragraph  (1)  to carry out protective works to a building;

22.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

22.5.c

a right under paragraph  (4) (a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

22.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specify the protective works proposed to be carried out.

22.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question of whether it is necessary or expedient to carry
out the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 49 (arbitration).

22.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

22.8

Where—

22.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

22.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

22.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

22.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (8) or  (9)  is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

22.11

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means —

22.11.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

22.11.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

23

23.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

23.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

23.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker sees fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

23.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land; and

23.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making trial holes.

23.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph  (1)  unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land indicating the nature of the survey or
investigation that the undertaker intends to carry out.

23.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

23.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

23.3.b

may take into the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

23.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

23.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary for which the local highway
authority is the highway authority, without the consent of the local highway
authority; or

23.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

23.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

23.6

If either the local highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

23.6.a

under paragraph  (4) (a)  in the case of the local highway authority; or

23.6.b

under paragraph  (4) (b)  in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

23.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

24.2

This article is subject to—

24.2.a

paragraph  (2)  of article  27  (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants);

24.2.b

paragraph  (9)  of article  34  (temporary use of land for carrying out the
authorised development); and

24.2.c

article 50 (Crown rights).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

25

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the modifications that—

25.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

25.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ; and

25.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

26

26.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

26.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 30 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

26.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article  31  (application of the 1981 Act).

26.2

The authority conferred by article  34  (temporary use of land for carrying
out the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph  (1) , except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
from remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land
was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

27

27.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (4), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land, or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land, as
may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as
acquiring rights already in existence.

27.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition of such wayleaves,
easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants
as may be required for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule and relating to that part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule.

27.3

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8) of Schedule
6 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for
creation of new rights)), where the undertaker acquires a right over land or
the benefit of a restrictive covenant affecting land under paragraph (1) or
(2), the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that
land.

27.4

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Public rights of way

28

28.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , the public rights of way identified in columns (1)
to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and
private means of access & provision of new highways and private means of
access) and shown on the rights of way and access plans are to be extinguished
on the date of the expiry of the notice given under paragraph  (2) .

28.2

Prior to the extinguishment of each of the public rights of way identified in
columns (1) to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 and shown on the rights of
way and access plans, the undertaker must erect a site notice at each end of
the rights of way to be extinguished no less than 28 days prior to the
extinguishment of that right of way.

#### Private rights over land

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

29.1.a

on the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker whether compulsorily
or by agreement; or

29.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1)  (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or burden of
the restrictive covenant—

29.2.a

on the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the restrictive
covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement; or

29.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker that are within the Order limits are extinguished on
commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or
breaches those rights.

29.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

29.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

29.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article  36  (statutory undertakers) applies.

29.7

Paragraphs  (1)  to  (4)  have effect subject to—

29.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

29.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the rights
or the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

29.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

29.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

29.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

29.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

29.8

If any such agreement referred to in paragraph  (7) (b) —

29.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

29.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

29.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

30

30.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

30.2

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge), for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”,
substitute  “section 118 of the Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating
to applications for orders granting development consent), the five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A47 Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023” .

30.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

30.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

30.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

30.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 26 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the A47 Wansford to Sutton
Development Consent Order 2023” .

30.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat) —

30.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

30.5.a.2

But see article 32 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) on the A47
Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this schedule”;

 and

30.5.b

after paragraph 29, insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

30.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 22 (protective work to buildings), 34
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 35
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the A47
Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023.

.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

31

31.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

31.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph  (1) , has effect with the following
modifications.

31.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection 2 substitute—

31.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

31.4

In section 5(2)  (earliest date for execution of declaration), omit the words
from “, and this subsection” to the end.

31.5

Omit section 5A  (time limit for general vesting declaration).

31.6

In section 5B(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge), for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in Section 5A”,
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A47 Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023” .

31.7

In section 6(1)(b)  (notices after execution of declaration), for “section 15
of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981”
substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory acquisition)
of the Planning Act 2008” .

31.8

In section 7(1)(a)  (constructive notice to treat) omit “(as modified by
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

31.9

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of and not in general
vesting declaration) for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

31.9.2

But see article 32(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47
Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

.

31.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125  (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article  30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

32

32.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1)  of
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of
acquiring the whole of the land.

32.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1) , the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

32.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph  (1)  in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

32.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 30 (modification of Part 1 of   the
1965 Act)) ;

32.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981; and

32.3.c

section 153(4A)  (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

32.4

Paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires
a cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building
or manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

33

33.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

33.2

Subject to paragraph  (3) , the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph  (1)  in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

33.3

Paragraph  (2)  does not apply in relation to—

33.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

33.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

33.4

Subject to paragraph  (5) , any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph  (1)  is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is entitled to compensation to
be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the
1961 Act.

33.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph  (4)  to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the
allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

34

34.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article  26  (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

34.1.a

enter on and take possession of—

34.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (4) of that Schedule; and

34.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act ;

34.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land,

34.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

34.1.d

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land in column (3)
of Schedule 7, or any other mitigation works in connection with the authorised
development.

34.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph  (1) (a) (ii) .

34.3

The undertaker must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

34.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph  (1) (a) (i) , after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 7; or

34.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph  (1) (a) (ii) , after the end
of the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work
for which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker
has, by the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of
the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation
to that land.

34.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

34.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

34.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph  (1) (d) ;

34.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development;

34.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development;

34.4.e

remove or reposition necessary mitigation works or any apparatus installed for
or belonging to statutory undertakers.

34.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

34.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (5)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

34.7

Any dispute as to the removal of temporary works and restoration of land under
paragraph  (4)  does not prevent the undertaker giving up possession of the
land.

34.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph  (5) .

34.9

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph  (1) (a) (i)  except that the undertaker is not to be
precluded from acquiring any part of the subsoil of or airspace over (or
rights in the subsoil of or airspace over) that land under article  32
(acquisition of subsoil or airspace only).

34.10

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

34.11

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act .

34.12

Paragraph  (1) (a) (ii)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary
possession of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land) or article  27  (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

35

35.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

35.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

35.1.b

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such
access as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

35.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

35.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

35.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

35.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

35.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and must explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

35.4

The undertaker is not required to serve notice under paragraph (3) where the
undertaker has identified a potential risk to the safety of—

35.4.a

the authorised development or any of its parts;

35.4.b

the public; or

35.4.c

the surrounding environment,

and in such circumstances, the undertaker may enter the land under paragraph
(1) subject to giving such period of notice as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

35.5

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

35.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

35.7

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

35.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (7)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

35.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph  (7) .

35.10

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

35.11

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land under to this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

35.12

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development, means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Statutory undertakers

36

36.1

Subject to the provisions of article  27  (compulsory acquisition of rights
and imposition of restrictive covenants), Schedule 9 (protective provisions)
and paragraph  (2) , the undertaker may—

36.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

36.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

36.2

Paragraph  (1) (b)  has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

36.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

36.2.b

article  37  (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

37

37.1

Where a street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any statutory
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street has the
same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions
of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

37.2

Where a street is stopped up under article  17  any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

37.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have
power to place it; or

37.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph  (a) .

37.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

37.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

37.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

37.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph  (2) —

37.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

37.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3)  is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

37.5

For the purposes of paragraph  (4) —

37.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

37.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

37.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph  (3)  (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph  (4) ) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

37.7

Paragraphs  (3)  to  (6)  do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

37.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

37.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

37.8

In this article—

      “ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph  (2) ; and           “ statutory utility ” means a statutory
undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications
provider.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

38

38.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article  36  (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

38.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer
but where such a sewer is removed under article  36 , any person who is—

38.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

38.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

38.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article
37  (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or
Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies.

38.4

In this article, “ public utility undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity
or sewerage undertaker.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

39

39.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land
within the Order limits or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to
be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

39.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

39.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

39.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1)  or  (4) , the
undertaker must-—

39.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub;

39.2.b

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity; and

39.2.c

take steps to avoid a breach of the provisions of the Wildlife and Countryside
Act 1981  and the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017  or
any successor acts and regulations.

39.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act .

39.4

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out
the authorised development—

39.4.a

remove any hedgerows within the Order limits and specified in Part 1 (removal
of hedgerows) of Schedule 8 (removal of hedgerows and trees);

39.4.b

remove the important hedgerows that are within the Order limits and specified
in Part 2 (removal of important hedgerows) of Schedule 8; and

39.4.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , and with the consent
of the local authority in whose area the hedgerow is located, remove or
translocate any hedgerow within the Order limits that is required to be
removed.

39.5

The grant of consent of a local authority in terms of paragraph  (4)(c)  must
not be unreasonably withheld.

39.6

If a local authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph  (4)(c)  the
local authority is deemed to have granted consent.

39.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

39.8

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

40

40.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree within or overhanging land within the
Order limits subject to a tree preservation order which was made after 23
March 2021 if the undertaker reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so
to prevent the tree or shrub—

40.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

40.1.b

from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised
development.

40.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1) —

40.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;

40.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1)  (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
is not to apply although where possible the undertaker is to seek to replace
any trees which are removed; and

40.2.c

the undertaker must consult the relevant planning authority prior to that
activity taking place.

40.3

The authority given in paragraph  (1)  constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

40.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

41

41.1

This article applies to—

41.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

41.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

41.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

41.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

41.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

41.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

41.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

42

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

43

43.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990 in relation to a nuisance falling within section 79(1)(g) (statutory
nuisances and inspections therefor) of that Act no order is to be made, and no
fine may be imposed, under section 82(2)  of that Act if—

43.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

43.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
; or

43.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

43.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

43.2

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that
it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Disregard of certain improvements etc.

44

44.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

44.1.a

any interest in land; or

44.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

44.2

In paragraph  (1)  “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works constructed or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned.

#### Set off for enhancement in value of retained land

45

45.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

45.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article  27  (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition
of restrictive covenants), the tribunal must set off against the value of the
rights so acquired—

45.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

45.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

45.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  as if this
Order were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### Protection of interests

46

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, public register, etc.

47

47.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification as
true copies of those plans and documents.

47.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 is required to be amended to
accord with the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order,
that plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s
satisfaction is the version of the plan or document required to be certified
under paragraph  (1) .

47.3

A plan or document so certified will be admissible in any proceedings as
evidence of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

47.4

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a copy of each of the documents listed in Schedule 10 as
may be amended in accordance with paragraph  (2) .

#### Service of notices

48

48.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

48.1.a

by post;

48.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

48.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs  (5)  to  (8)  by
electronic transmission.

48.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

48.3

For the purposes of section 7  (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978 as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph  (1)  is, if that person has given an
address for service, that address, and otherwise—

48.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

48.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

48.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

48.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

48.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

48.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

48.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

48.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

48.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

48.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

48.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

48.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph  (8) .

48.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

48.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

48.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

48.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

48.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Arbitration

49

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the
tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

#### Crown Rights

50

50.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker to use, enter upon or in any manner
interfere with any land or rights of any description—

50.1.a

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

50.1.b

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

50.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for His Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

50.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order
for the compulsory purchase of any interest in any Crown land (as defined in
the 2008 Act) for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of the
Crown.

50.3

A consent under paragraph  (1)  may be given unconditionally or subject to
terms and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is
sent electronically.

#### Removal of human remains

51

51.1

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains in the specified land it must remove those human
remains from the specified land, or cause them to be removed, in accordance
with the following provisions of this article.

51.2

Subject to paragraph  (11)  before any such remains are removed from the
specified land the undertaker must consult the local planning authority on the
intended removal, following which the undertaker must give notice of the
intended removal describing the specified land and stating the general effect
of the following provisions of this article by—

51.2.a

publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper
circulating in the area of the authorised development; and

51.2.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land
for a minimum of 28 days.

51.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph  (2)  the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the
local planning authority.

51.4

At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under
paragraph  (2)  any person who is a personal representative or relative of any
deceased person whose remains are interred in the specified land may give
notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to undertake
the removal of the remains.

51.5

Where a person has given notice under paragraph  (4) , and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

51.5.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

51.5.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium,

and that person is to, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph  (10) .

51.6

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph  (4)  is the personal representative or relative as that person
claims to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question
is to be determined on the application of either party in a summary manner by
the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who must remove
the remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

51.7

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under this article.

51.8

If—

51.8.a

within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph  (4)  no notice under
that paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in
the specified land;

51.8.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph  (6)  within
56 days after the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice
fails to remove the remains within a further period of 56 days;

51.8.c

within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph
(6)  any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to
remove the remains; or

51.8.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be
identified,

subject to paragraph  (9)  the undertaker must remove the remains and cause
them to be re-interred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves are to be reinterred in
individual containers which are to be identifiable by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

51.9

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(4)  is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be
and that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

51.10

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article—

51.10.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation is to be sent to the Registrar
General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment or cremation and
identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in
which they were re-interred or cremated; and

51.10.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph  (8)  is to be sent by the undertaker to the local
planning authority.

51.11

No notice is required under paragraph  (2)  before the removal of any human
remains where the undertaker is satisfied—

51.11.a

that the remains were interred more than 100 years ago; and

51.11.b

that no relative or personal representative of the deceased is likely to
object to the remains being removed in accordance with this article.

51.12

In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph  (11)  applies, the
undertaker—

51.12.a

may remove the remains;

51.12.b

must apply for a direction from the Secretary of State under paragraph  (13)
as to their subsequent treatment; and

51.12.c

must deal with the remains in such manner, and subject to such conditions, as
the Secretary of State directs.

51.13

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be
carried out in accordance with any directions which may be given by the
Secretary of State.

51.14

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

51.15

Section 25  (offence of removal of body from burial ground) of the Burial Act
1857 does not apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this article.

51.16

Section 239 (use and development of burial grounds) of the 1990 Act applies—

51.16.a

in relation to land, other than a right over land, acquired for the purposes
of the authorised development (whether or not by agreement), so as to permit
use by the undertaker in accordance with the provisions of this Order; and

51.16.b

in relation to a right over land so acquired (whether or not by agreement), or
the temporary use of land pursuant to articles 34 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) or 35 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development), so as to permit the exercise of that
right or the temporary use by the undertaker in accordance with the provisions
of this Order,

and section 240 of the 1990 Act is to be interpreted in accordance with
paragraph (17).

51.17

In section 240 of the 1990 Act—

51.17.a

reference in subsection (1) to “ regulations made for the purposes of sections
238(3) and (4) and 239(2) ” means, so far as applicable to land or a right
over land acquired under this Order, paragraphs (2) to (15) of this article;
and

51.17.b

reference in subsection (3) to a “ statutory undertaker ” includes the
undertaker and reference to “ any other enactment ” includes this Order.

51.18

The Town and Country Planning (Churches, Places of Religious Worship and
Burial Grounds) Regulations 1950  do not apply to the authorised development.

51.19

In this article “ the specified land ” means any land within the Order limits.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport
Natasha Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department
for Transport     17th February 2023

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

  In the administrative areas of Peterborough City Council

  The authorised development is a nationally significant infrastructure
project as defined in sections 14  (nationally significant infrastructure
projects: general) and 22  (highways) of the 2008 Act and associated
development within the meaning of section 115(2)  (development for which
development consent may be granted) of the 2008 Act, comprising—

  Work No. 1  – Dualling of the A47 mainline from the existing Wansford
eastern roundabout for 2,600 metres to the termination point to the east for
tie into existing A47 including earthworks and associated drainage, as shown
on sheets 3, 4, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 2  – A new private means of access to 4 properties and a service
vehicle turning point including earthworks and associated drainage, as shown
on sheet 1 of the works plans;

  Work No. 3  – Diversion, protection and removal of potable water pipes,
electronic communication cables and apparatus, and overhead and underground
electricity cables as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans;

  Work No. 4  – Protection of NGG gas pipeline as shown on sheet 1 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 5  – Diversion and removal of underground electronic communication
cables and apparatus, and underground electricity cables as shown on sheets 1
and 2 of the works plans;

  Work No. 6  – A new carriageway to create a free flow link from A1
southbound to the dualled A47 eastbound (Work No. 1) for 634 metres including
embankments and associated drainage, as shown on sheets 1, 2 and 3 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 7  – Extension to the existing A1 southbound culvert and
environmental mitigation to the existing burn and ditch for a length of 400
metres, as shown on sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 8  – Diversion of 11kV electricity cable as shown on sheets 2 and 3
of the works plans;

  Work No. 9  – Removal of underground electricity cables as shown on sheets 2
and 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 10  – A new balancing pond west of the new free flow link from A1
southbound to the dualled A47 eastbound (Work No. 6) and north of Work No. 11
including earthworks, drainage inlets/outlets and a maintenance access track
as shown on sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 11  – Improvements to the existing A1/A47 on and off ramps to the
Wansford eastern roundabout including earthwork widening for 203 metres from
the A1 southbound diverge to the Wansford eastern roundabout with a spur 116
metres from the Wansford eastern roundabout, for 65 metres, to the A1
southbound merge as shown on sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 12  – Improvement to the eastbound carriageway of the existing A47
from a point 42 metres west of the Wansford western roundabout for 268 metres
over the A1 including the realignment of the central reserve and a new cycle
crossing point at the Wansford western roundabout as shown on sheet 2 and 3 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 13  – Improvements to the existing A47 Wansford eastern roundabout
including widening, earthworks and drainage as shown on sheet 3 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 14  – Diversion and removal of electricity cables as shown on sheet
3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 15  – A new 900.20 metre length of carriageway to form a new link
road from A47 Wansford eastern roundabout (Work No. 13) a new A47 westbound
off slip from the dualled A47 (Work No.1) including earthworks, associated
drainage and along part of a cycle track as shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 16  – Diversion and removal of electronic communication and cables
and apparatus and diversion of water pipes and construction of a site office
and construction areas as shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 17  – Two new balancing ponds and construction areas east and north
of the new link to filling station and Sacrewell Farm (Work No. 15) and south
of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) including earthworks and drainage inlets and
outlets between ponds an outlet to the river Nene and a maintenance access
track as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 18  – Diversion and removal of electricity cables as shown on sheet
3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 19  – Realignment pumping station access road for 45 metres
including earthworks and drainage as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 20  – Realignment of footpath to the south of the dualled A47 (Work
No. 1) as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 21  – A new Sacrewell Farm access road connecting to Work No. 15
and running north for 312.75 metres passing through the Sacrewell Farm
underbridge including earthworks and drainage as shown on sheet 3 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 22  – A new access track from Sacrewell Farm access road (Work No.
21) for 21.30 metres to the existing access track including improvements to
the existing access as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 23  – Realignment of shared cycle track and permissive bridleway
and formation of a means of access as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 24  – Temporary welfare and compound area including a haul route to
Works Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 as shown on sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 25  – A new Sacrewell Farm underbridge under the dualled A47 (Work
No. 1) including structural units, concrete foundations, drainage and
waterproofing as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 26  – Diversion and removal of electricity cable to mobile mast as
shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 27  – Protection, diversion and resilience works to large diameter
water pipelines and associated apparatus as shown on sheet 3 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 28  – A new balancing pond to the north of the dualled A47 (Work
No. 1) including drainage inlets, an outlet to river Nene to the south and an
access track as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 29  – Diversion and removal of overhead electrical cables as shown
on sheets 4 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 30  – Replacement of Wansford Sluice under the dualled A47 (Work
No. 1) between Willow Brook and the existing ditch outlet to river Nene on the
south as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 31  – A new balancing pond to the south of the existing A47 (Work
No. 41) including drainage inlets and an outlet to Wansford Sluice (Work No.
30) to the west and an access track as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 32  – A flood compensation area to the south of the dualled A47
(Work No. 1) consisting of tree clearance, ground works and ground
stabilisation as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 33  – New access track to balancing pond (Work No. 31) and together
with a new bridleway over the access track and access ramps north and south of
the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) leading to the new underpass (Work No. 35) to
create a walking, cycling, horse riding route including earthworks and
drainage as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 34  – Demolition of Station House and construction of a new bat
hotel as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 35  – A new underpass below the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) for
walking, cycling and horse-riding including embankments, drainage and
waterproofing as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 36  – Diversion and removal of electronic communication cables and
apparatus, electrical cables and potable water pipes and associated apparatus
as shown on sheets 4, 5 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 37  – A new turning head on Sutton Heath Road adjacent to Station
House as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 38  – A temporary welfare and compound area including a haul road
to the north of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) and a new temporary access track
from Work No. 37 as shown on sheets 4, 5 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 39  – Ecological works and landscaping area to the south of the
dualled A47 (Work No. 1) as shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 40  – Conversion works to the existing A47 to create a new private
means of access, part cycle track and part bridleway from the dualled A47
(Work No. 1) running east for 590 metres to the new link road to Sutton Heath
roundabout (Work No. 45) as shown on sheets 4 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 41  – A realigned carriageway Sutton Heath Road for 150 metres to
Work No. 42 including earthworks and drainage as shown on sheet 5 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 42  – A new carriageway from the new Sutton Heath roundabout (Work
No. 44) north for 718 metres to Sutton Heath Road including earthworks and
drainage and access points as shown on sheets 5 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 43  – Realignment of the existing junction between Sutton Heath
Road and Langley Bush Road to create a new junction with the new link to
Sutton Heath Road (Work No. 42) for 57 metres including earthworks and
drainage as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 44  – A new Sutton Heath roundabout including earthworks, drainage
and a safety barrier as shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 45  – A new part improved carriageway from Sutton Heath roundabout
(Work No. 44) for 1,019 metres to Peterborough Road to form the new link road
including earthworks, drainage and cycle track as shown on sheets 6 and 7 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 46  – A new infiltration pass with drainage inserts to a pond and
an access track, to the north of the new link road (Work No. 45) and to the
south of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) as shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 47  – Alterations to The Drift to prevent vehicular traffic and
provide a bridleway together with a new turning head to the existing Drift
including fencing and gates as shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 48  – Diversion and removal of existing electronic communication
cables and apparatus, underground electricity cables, and potable water pipes
as shown on sheets 6 and 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 49  – Protection, diversion and resilience works to potable water
pipes and associated apparatus as shown on sheets 6 and 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 50  – A new attenuation basin to the south of the dualled A47 (Work
No. 1) including inlet and outlets with a connection to positive drainage, an
access track and breaking up and removal of existing carriageway as shown on
sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 51  – Realignment of the junction between Peterborough Road and
Nene Way for 28 metres including earthworks, drainage and footways as shown on
sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 52  – Diversion and removal of electricity cables to the east of
Work No. 51 as shown on sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 53  – A new turning head and access on Upton Road adjacent to Lower
Lodge Farm including fencing and gates as shown on sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 54  – Diversion and removal of existing underground electricity
cables, electronic communication cables and apparatus and potable water pipes
along Upton Road as shown on sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 55  – Improvements to the existing Upton Drift including passing
places, widening the metalled surface into highway verge, straightening of the
S- bend and sight lines and widening of its existing junction with Langley
Bush Road and the existing injunction adjacent to Model Farm for 639 metres
including earthworks and drainage as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 56  – Diversion of electronic overhead and underground
communication cables and apparatus as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 57  – Diversion of a 11kV electricity cable as shown on sheet 5 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 58  – Diversion of the underground cables and protection of the
foul sewer as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 59  – A new traffic sign indicating The Drift is closed to vehicles
as shown on sheet 7 of the works plans.

  And for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of any of
those works mentioned above, further development within the Order limits which
does not give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental
effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental statement
consisting of—     a     alteration to the layout of any street permanently or
temporarily, including as part of detrunking or stopping up orders, including
but not limited to increasing or reducing the width of the carriageway of the
street by reducing or increasing the width of any kerb, footpath, footway,
cycle track or verge within the street; altering the level of any such kerb,
footpath, footway, cycle track or verge; installing low noise surfacing; and
landscaping sections of disused sections;         b     works required for the
strengthening, improvement, maintenance or reconstruction of any street;
c     ramps, means of access, non-motorised links, footpaths, cycle tracks and
crossing facilities;         d     embankments, viaducts, aprons, abutments,
shafts, foundations, retaining walls, barriers, pumping stations, parapets,
drainage, outfalls, ditches, wing walls, highway lighting, fencing and
culverts;         e     street works, including breaking up or opening up a
street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; tunnelling or boring under a
street;         f     works to place, alter, remove or maintain street
furniture or apparatus in a street, or apparatus in other land, including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, ducts, traffic signals and
lights;         g     works to alter the course of or otherwise interfere with
a watercourse;         h     landscaping, noise bunds and barriers, works
associated with the provision of ecological mitigation and other works to
mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance or operation of
the authorised development;         i     works for the benefit or protection
of land affected by the authorised development;         j     site preparation
works, site clearance (including fencing, vegetation removal, demolition of
existing structures and the creation of alternative footpaths); earthworks
(including soil stripping and storage, site levelling); remediation of
contamination;         k     the felling of trees;         l     construction
compounds and working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle parking,
construction fencing, perimeter enclosure, security fencing, construction-
related buildings, welfare facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads
and other buildings, machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences;         m
the provision of other works including pavement works, kerbing and paved areas
works, signing, signals, gantries, road markings works, traffic management
measures including temporary roads and such other works as are associated with
the construction of the authorised development; and         n     such other
works, working sites, storage areas and works of demolition, as may be
necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or for purposes ancillary to, the
construction of the authorised development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 5

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ completed ” means the relevant parts of the authorised development are
completed and fully open to traffic and completion is to be construed
accordingly;           “ contaminated land ” has the same meaning as that term
is given in section 78A of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 ;           “
DMRB ” means the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, which accommodates all
current standards, advice and other documents relating to the design,
assessment and operation of trunk roads and motorways, or any equivalent
replacement to the DMRB published;           “ EMP (First Iteration) ” means
the first iteration of the environmental management plan produced in
accordance with the DMRB during the preliminary design stage and certified by
the Secretary of State as the environmental management plan for the purposes
of this Order under article 47 (certification of documents, public register,
etc.);           “ EMP (Second Iteration) ” means the second iteration of the
environmental management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB, which is
to be a refined version of the EMP (First Iteration) including more detailed
versions of the outline plans contained or listed within the EMP (First
Iteration) or any other plans as required;           “ EMP (Third Iteration) ”
means the third iteration of the environmental management plan produced in
accordance with the DMRB, which is a refined version of the EMP (Second
Iteration) and which relates to the operational and maintenance phase of the
authorised development;           “ European protected species ” has the same
meaning as in regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and 46
(European protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and
Species Regulations 2017 ;           “ Landscape and ecology management plan ”
means the management plan included at Annex B.5 to the EMP (First Iteration);
“ the Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works ” means the document of
that name published electronically by or on behalf of the strategic highway
authority for England or any equivalent replacement published for that
document;           “ masterplan ” means the environmental masterplan
certified by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ nationally protected species ” means any species protected under the
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981  or which are European protected species;
“ REAC ” means the Register of Environmental Actions and Commitments forming
table 3.1 of the EMP (First Iteration).

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date that this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed design

3

3.1

With the exception of Work Nos. 21, 22 and 25, the authorised development must
be designed in detail and carried out so that it is compatible with the
preliminary scheme design shown on the engineering drawings and sections
unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority and local
highway authority on matters related to their functions, provided that the
Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the engineering
drawings and sections showing departures from the preliminary scheme design
would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

3.2

No part of the authorised development is to commence until preliminary scheme
design engineering drawings and sections for Work Nos. 21, 22 and 25 have been
submitted to and agreed in writing by the Secretary of State. Thereafter, the
authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that it
is compatible with these approved drawings, following consultation by the
undertaker with the relevant planning authority and local highway authority on
matters related to their functions and the Official Custodian of Charities on
behalf of The William Scott Abbott Trust, provided that the Secretary of State
is satisfied that any amendments to the approved drawings showing departures
from the preliminary scheme design would not give rise to any materially new
or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

3.3

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraphs  (1)  and (2), those details are deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding engineering drawings and sections and the undertaker must make
those amended details available in electronic form for inspection by members
of the public.

###### Environmental Management Plan

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an EMP (Second
Iteration) for that part, substantially in accordance with the EMP (First
Iteration) has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation by the undertaker with—

4.1.a

the relevant planning authority,

4.1.b

the relevant local highway authority,

4.1.c

the Environment Agency,

4.1.d

Natural England,

4.1.e

the lead local flood authority,

4.1.f

Cambridgeshire County Council, and

4.1.g

the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England,

to the extent that the content of the EMP (Second Iteration) relates to
matters relevant to their functions.

4.2

The EMP (Second Iteration) for any part of the authorised development must be
written in accordance with ISO14001 and so far as is relevant to that part of
the authorised development, must reflect the mitigation measures required by
the REAC and set out in the environmental statement and must include as many
of the following plans and strategies as are applicable to the part of the
authorised development to which it relates—

4.2.a

Site waste management plan;

4.2.b

Materials management plan;

4.2.c

Soil management plan, which includes—

4.2.c.i

a soil resource plan;

4.2.c.ii

a soil handling strategy;

4.2.d

Construction noise and dust management plan;

4.2.e

Construction communication strategy;

4.2.f

Landscape and ecology management plan;

4.2.g

Biosecurity management plan; and

4.2.h

Water monitoring and management plan;

4.2.i

Detailed heritage written statement of investigation (mitigation strategy);

4.2.j

Non Native Species management plan; and

4.2.k

Operational Unexploded Ordnance emergency response plan.

4.3

The relevant part of the authorised development must be constructed in
accordance with the approved EMP (Second Iteration).

4.4

On completion of construction of each part of the authorised development the
EMP (Third Iteration) relating to that part must be submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker
with the relevant planning authority, the relevant local highway authority,
the Environment Agency, Natural England, the lead local flood authority and
the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England to the extent that
the content of the EMP (Third Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their
functions.

4.5

The relevant part of the authorised development must be operated and
maintained in accordance with the EMP (Third Iteration).

###### Landscaping

5

5.1

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
scheme which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft landscaping works
and which has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority on matters related to its functions.

5.2

The landscaping scheme must reflect the mitigation measures set out in the
REAC and be based on the masterplan.

5.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include details
of—

5.3.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

5.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

5.3.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

5.3.d

proposed finished ground levels;

5.3.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works; and

5.3.f

measures for the replacement, in the first available planting season, of any
tree or shrub planted as part of the landscaping scheme that, within a period
of 5 years after the completion of the part of the authorised development to
which the relevant landscaping scheme relates, dies, becomes seriously
diseased or is seriously damaged.

5.4

All landscaping works detailed in the approved landscaping scheme referred to
in paragraph  (1)  must be carried out to a reasonable standard in accordance
with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards and other
recognised codes of good practice.

5.5

Any tree or shrub planted as part of a landscaping scheme that, within a
period of 5 years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes in the opinion
of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased, must be
replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same
species and size as that originally planted, unless the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority,
gives consent to a variation.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

6

6.1

In the event that contaminated land, including groundwater, is found at any
time when carrying out the authorised development which was not previously
identified in the environmental statement, it must be reported as soon as
reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State, the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency, and the undertaker must complete a risk
assessment of the contamination in consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency.

6.2

Where the risk assessment prepared in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1)
determines that remediation of the contaminated land is necessary, a written
scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be taken to render the land
fit for its intended purpose must be submitted to and approved in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the
relevant planning authority on matters related to its functions and the
Environment Agency.

6.3

Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Protected species

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part,
final preconstruction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by that part of the relevant works, or in
any of the trees and shrubs to be lopped, removed or felled as part of the
relevant works.

7.2

Following pre-construction survey work or at any time when carrying out the
authorised development, where—

7.2.a

a protected species is shown to be present, or where there is a reasonable
likelihood of it being present;

7.2.b

application of the relevant assessment methods used in the environmental
statement show that a significant effect is likely to occur which was not
previously identified in the environmental statement; and

7.2.c

that effect is not addressed by any prior approved scheme of protection and
mitigation established in accordance with this paragraph,

the relevant parts of the relevant works must cease until a scheme of
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State.

7.3

The undertaker must consult with Natural England on the scheme referred to in
subparagraph  (2)  prior to submission to the Secretary of State for approval,
except where a suitably qualified and experienced ecologist, holding where
relevant and appropriate a licence relating to the species in question,
determines that the relevant works do not require a protected species licence.

7.4

The relevant works under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State
after consultation by the undertaker with Natural England, and under any
necessary licences.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part
written details of the surface and foul water drainage system, in accordance
with the drainage strategy and the mitigation measures set out in the REAC
including means of pollution control, have been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State following consultation by the undertaker
with the relevant planning authority and the lead local flood authority on
matters related to their functions.

8.2

The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed in accordance
with the approved details, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary
of State following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority and the lead local flood authority on matters related to their
functions, provided that the Secretary of State is satisfied that any
amendments to the approved details would not give rise to any materially new
or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

###### Flood compensatory storage

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , no part of the authorised development is to
commence until a detailed floodplain compensation scheme for that part has
been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority and the Environment Agency.

9.2

No part of the authorised development which will reduce the capacity of the
floodplain is to commence until a detailed floodplain compensation scheme
design for that part has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the Environment Agency.

9.3

A floodplain compensation scheme prepared under paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)
must provide suitable flood storage for any flood waters that would be
displaced by the authorised development in the 1 in 100 year plus 35% climate
change allowance event.

9.4

Construction of the authorised development must be sequenced so that at no
point will the capacity of the floodplain be reduced to below pre-construction
levels.

9.5

Any floodplain compensation scheme must be constructed as approved under
paragraphs (1) and (2) and subsequently maintained.

###### Archaeological remains

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
written scheme of investigation (“ WSI ”) of areas of archaeological interest,
reflecting the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC, has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority and the
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission.

10.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
scheme referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

10.3

A copy of any analysis, reporting, publication or archiving required as part
of the WSI must be deposited with the Historic Environment Record of the
relevant planning authority within one year of the date of completion of the
authorised development or such other period as may be agreed in writing by the
relevant planning authority or specified in the written scheme referred to in
sub-paragraph  (1) .

10.4

Any archaeological remains not previously identified which are revealed when
carrying out the authorised development must be retained in situ and reported
by way of a notice to the relevant planning authority, and to the Historic
Buildings and Monuments Commission in the case of the scheduled monument area,
as soon as reasonably practicable from the date they are identified.

10.5

No construction operations are to take place within 10 metres of the remains
referred to in sub-paragraph  (4)  for a period of 14 days from the date of
any notice served under sub-paragraph  (4)  unless otherwise agreed in writing
by the relevant planning authority or, in the case of a scheduled monument
area, Historic England.

10.6

If the relevant planning authority or, in the case of a scheduled monument,
the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission determines in writing that the
archaeological remains referred to in sub-paragraph  (4)  require further
investigation or mitigation, no construction operations are to take place
within 10 metres of the remains until provision has been made for such
mitigation or the further investigation and recording of the remains in
accordance with details to be submitted in writing to, and approved in writing
by, the relevant planning authority or, in the case of a scheduled monument,
the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission.

###### Traffic management

11

11.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the construction, alteration
or improvement of Work No. 1 is to commence until a traffic management plan
substantially in accordance with the outline traffic management plan, for that
part has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the local highway authority on
matters related to its function.

11.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the approved
traffic management plan referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Fencing

12

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
the Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works except where any departures
from that manual are agreed in writing by the Secretary of State in connection
with the authorised development.

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

13

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details or schemes approved under this
Schedule, the approved details or schemes are taken to include any amendments
that may subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

14

14.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

14.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

14.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph  15  (further information); or

14.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

14.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (4) , in the event that the Secretary of State does
not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

14.3

Where the Secretary of State requests further information pursuant to
paragraph 15 , and no further information has been submitted eight weeks from
that day immediately following that on which the application was received by
the Secretary of State, the application or (if applicable) the part of the
application to which the request for further information relates is taken to
have been refused by the Secretary of State.

14.4

Where—

14.4.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

14.4.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ; and

14.4.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted by the undertaker under the requirement that considers it likely
that the subject matter of the application would give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

15

15.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

15.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates.

15.3

In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such notification
within the 21 day business period mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) the Secretary
of State is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application
and is not subsequently entitled to request further information without the
prior agreement of the undertaker.

15.4

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph  14  (applications made under requirements) and in
this paragraph.

15.5

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday,
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays)  of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

###### Register of requirements

16

16.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

16.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

16.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

17

If before the coming into force of this Order the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

###### Details of consultation

18

18.1

In relation to any provision of this Schedule requiring details to be
submitted to the Secretary of State for approval following consultation by the
undertaker with another party, the undertaker must provide such other party
with not less than 28 days for any response to the consultation.

18.2

With respect to any requirement which requires details to be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval under this Schedule, the details submitted
must be accompanied by a summary report setting out the consultation
undertaken by the undertaker to inform the details submitted and an account as
to how the undertaker has had regard to the responses received.

18.3

At the time of submitting an application to the Secretary of State, the
undertaker must provide a copy of the summary report to the requirement
consultees referred to in the requirement under which approval is being
sought.

18.4

The undertaker must ensure that any consultation responses are reflected in
the details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval under this
Schedule, but only where it is appropriate, reasonable and feasible to do so,
taking into account considerations including, but not limited to, cost and
engineering practicality.

18.5

Where the consultation responses are not reflected in the details submitted to
the Secretary of State for approval, the undertaker must state in the summary
report referred to under   sub-paragraph (2)   the reasons why the
consultation responses have not been reflected in the submitted details with
the reasons published in the public register published pursuant to article  47
(certification of documents, public register, etc.).

  CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS, ETC

Articles 13 and 19

##### TRUNK ROADS

(1) Area (2) Length of road The classification of roads plans – sheets 3-4 and
6-7 Wansford CP Sutton CP A length of highway to be classified as part of the
proposed A47 Trunk Road 1 On the eastbound carriageway: a from point A (sheet
3), east of the Wansford eastern roundabout, in an easterly direction to point
A1 (sheet 6), a distance of 1752 metres; and b from point A2 (sheet 6), 25
metres north west of the junction where   The Drift   joins the existing A47,
in an easterly direction to point B (sheet 7), a distance of 829 metres. 2 On
the westbound carriageway: a from point C (sheet 3), at the Wansford eastern
roundabout, to point C1 (sheet 6), a distance of 1747 metres; and b from point
C2 (sheet 6), 88 metres north west of the junction where   The Drift   joins
the existing A47, in an easterly direction to point D (sheet 7), a distance of
828 metres. The classification of roads plans – sheets 1, 2 and 3 Thornhaugh
CP Wansford CP Proposed free flow link from A1 to A47 new eastbound diverge
slip road to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road From point E, 350
metres south of the junction between A1 and Windgate Way, in a south-easterly
direction to point F (sheet 3), a distance of 2490 metres. The classification
of roads plans –   sheets   2 and 3 Wansford CP Improved existing A47
eastbound roundabout connector road to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk
Road. From point K, on the Wansford western roundabout, in an easterly
direction to point L (sheet 3), a distance of 254 metres. The classification
of roads plans – sheet 3 Wansford CP Improved Wansford eastern roundabout to
be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road with reference AA, the centrepoint
of the roundabout is 114 metres east of the A47/A1 overbridge. Wansford CP
Improved westbound roundabout connector road to be classified as part of the
A47 Trunk Road. From point N, at the Wansford eastern roundabout, in a
westerly direction to point M, a distance of 66 metres. Wansford CP Existing
A1 southbound diverge slip road to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road
From point G, 135 metres north west of the A47/A1 overbridge, in a south-
easterly direction to point I, a distance of 230 metres. Wansford CP Existing
A1 southbound merge slip road to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road
From point H, 65 metres north of the A47/A1 overbridge, in an easterly
direction to point J, a distance of 187 metres. The classification of roads
plans – sheet 6 Sutton CP New Sutton Heath roundabout to be classified as part
of the A47 Trunk Road with reference BB, the centrepoint of the roundabout is
84 metres north west of the junction where  The Drift  joins the existing A47.

##### CLASSIFIED C ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)       Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 3 Wansford CP New link to filling
station and Sacrewell Farm to be classified as C Road. From point O, 30 metres
south of the centre of the Wansford eastern roundabout, in a southerly and
then easterly direction to point P (sheet 4), a distance of 869 metres. The
classification of roads plans – sheet 4 Sutton CP Proposed turning head along
Sutton Heath Road to be classified as a C Road. From point EE, 1326 metres
east of Wansford western roundabout, to point FF, a distance of 12.5 metres.
The classification of roads plans – sheet 5 Sutton CP New link road from the
new Sutton Heath roundabout linking into Sutton Heath Road and Langley Bush
Road to be classified as C Road. From point Q, 131 metres north west of the
existing Langley Bush Road junction with existing Sutton Heath Road, in a
south-easterly direction to point R (sheet 6), a distance of 729 metres.
Sutton CP Improved Langley Bush Road to be classified as C Road. From point S,
13 metres east of the existing Langley Bush Road junction with existing Sutton
Heath Road, in an easterly direction to point T, a distance of 60 metres.
Sutton CP Realigned Sutton Heath Road to be classified as C Road. From point
U, 93 metres to the south east of the existing Langley Bush Road junction with
existing Sutton Heath Road, in a south-westerly direction to point V, a
distance of 60 metres. The classification of roads plans – sheet 6 Sutton CP
New connector road to the new Sutton Heath roundabout and detrunked A47 to be
classified as C Road. From point W, 77 metres north west of the junction where
the Drift joins the existing A47, in a south-easterly direction to point X
(sheet 7), a distance of 865 metres.

##### UNCLASSIFIED ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)       Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 3 Wansford CP Proposed route to pumping
station. From point CC, in a south-easterly route to point DD, a distance of
50 metres. The classification of roads plans – sheet 5 Upton CP Existing Upton
Drift Existing carriageway to be an unclassified road From point AC, at the
junction between Upton Drift and Langley Bush Road, in an easterly direction
to point AD, as distance of 639 metres. The classification of roads plans –
sheet 7 Sutton CP Existing Nene Way Existing carriageway to be an unclassified
road from point Z, 157 metres to the south west of the centreline of the
existing Nene Way roundabout, in a northern-easterly direction to point Y, a
distance of 58 metres. Sutton CP Proposed new turning head to be an
unclassified road. From point GG, 304 metres north east of the existing Nene
Way roundabout, to point HH, a distance of 23 metres.

##### SPEED LIMITS

  Note: where speed limits are indicated on the plans relating to this Part
(the traffic regulation plans) but are not referenced in this Schedule they
indicate that national speed limits apply in accordance with either—     a
the national speed limit set out in—     i     section 86 and Schedule 6  of
the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984; and         ii     the 70 miles per
hour, 60 miles per hour and 50 miles per hour (Temporary Speed Limit) Order
1977 as varied by the 70 miles per hour, 60 miles per hour and 50 miles per
hour (Temporary Speed Limit) (Variation) Order 1978 and continued indefinitely
by regulation 2 of the 70 Miles Per Hour, 60 Miles Per Hour and 50 Miles Per
Hour (Temporary Speed Limit) (Continuation) Order 1978 ; or             b
sections 81 and 82  of the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (which defines
speed limits on ‘restricted roads’ by reference to street lighting),

  and are not subject to this Order.             (1)       Parish         (2)
Road name, number and length         (3)       Speed Limit       The traffic
regulation plans – sheets 2 Wansford CP A47 trunk road From point J at the
eastern side of the Wansford western roundabout, in an easterly direction to
point H (sheet 3), a distance of 242 metres. Removal of Restricted Road
Status. The traffic regulation plans – sheet 3 Wansford CP A1 southbound
diverge to Wansford eastern roundabout From point A, in an easterly and
southerly direction to point C, a distance of 180 metres. Removal of
Restricted Road Status. Wansford CP A1 southbound merge from Wansford eastern
roundabout From point B, in an easterly and southerly direction to point C1, a
distance of 57 metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Wansford CP A47
trunk road westbound west of Wansford eastern From point K, 145 metres east of
the Wansford eastern roundabout, in an easterly direction to point G, a
distance of 66 metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Wansford CP Wansford
eastern roundabout The whole roundabout from point I around the roundabout to
point I, a distance of 170 metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Wansford
CP A47 trunk road eastbound From point D, at the eastern side of the Wansford
eastern roundabout in an easterly direction to point L, a distance of 127
metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Wansford CP A47 Trunk road
westbound A47 trunk road From point E, at the eastern side of the Wansford
eastern roundabout in an easterly direction to point M, a distance of 127
metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Wansford CP New link to filling
station and Sacrewell Farm southbound From point N, 128 metres south of the
southern side of the Wansford eastern roundabout in an easterly direction to
point O (sheet 4), a distance of 750 metres. 30 miles per hour. The traffic
regulation plans – sheet 6 Sutton CP New link to Sutton Heath Road From point
S at the northern side of Sutton Heath Roundabout on the northbound
carriageway in a northerly direction to point X, a distance of 98 metres.
Removal of Restricted Road Status. Sutton CP Sutton Heath Roundabout The whole
roundabout from point AB around the roundabout to point AB, a distance of 175
metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Sutton CP A47 trunk road eastbound
From point T at the eastern side of the Sutton Heath roundabout in a south-
easterly direction to point Z, a distance of 132 metres. Removal of Restricted
Road Status. Sutton CP A47 trunk road westbound From point U, at the eastern
side of the Sutton Heath roundabout. in a south-easterly direction to point
AA, a distance of 127 metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status. Sutton CP
Sutton Heath Roundabout southern arm From point V, in a south-easterly and
then easterly direction to point Y, a distance of 133 metres. Removal of
Restricted Road Status. Sutton CP A47 trunk road westbound From point W, at
the western side of the Sutton Heath roundabout, in a north-westerly direction
to point Q, a distance of 148 metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status.
Sutton CP A47 trunk road eastbound From point R, at the western side of the
Sutton Heath roundabout, in a north-westerly direction to point P, a distance
of 179 metres. Removal of Restricted Road Status

##### REVOCATIONS & VARIATIONS OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDERS

          (1)       Parish         (2)       Road name, number and length
(3)       Title of Order         (4)       Revocations or Variations       The
traffic regulation plans – sheets 3, 4, 6 and 7     Wansford CP       Sutton
CP     Detrunked A47 The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to
Great Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013. Paragraph 1 of the
said order will not apply to the former A47 trunk road from point X7 (sheet
3), at the eastern exit of the Wansford eastern roundabout, in an easterly
direction to point X9 (sheet 7) a distance of 2,486 metres Sutton CP Detrunked
A47 The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to Great Yarmouth,
Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013. Paragraph 1 of the said order will not
apply to the whole Nene Way roundabout from point X10 around the roundabout to
point X10, a distance of 106 metres. Sutton CP Detrunked A47 The A47 Trunk
Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to Great Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour
Clearway) Order 2013. Paragraph 1 of the said order will not apply to the A47
trunk road westbound from point X11 at the eastern exit of the Nene Way
roundabout, in an easterly direction to point X12 a distance of 76 metres.
Sutton CP Detrunked A47 The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to
Great Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013. Paragraph 1 of the
said order will not apply to the A47 trunk road eastbound from point X13 at
the eastern exit of the Nene Way roundabout, in an easterly direction to point
X14 a distance of 70 metres.

##### FOOTPATHS, CYCLE TRACKS, FOOTWAYS AND BRIDLEWAYS

          (1)       Parish         (2)       Length of Footpath/Cycle
track/Footway/Bridleway       The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2
Wansford CP     Reference SU1 to SU2       A new cycle track across the
central reservation of the A47 trunk road 25 metres west of the Wansford
western roundabout from point SU1 in a southerly direction to SU2, a distance
of 2.7 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 3 Wansford CP
Reference SU3 to SU4       A cycle track on the south side of the new link to
filling station and Sacrewell Farm from point SU3 at junction of Nene Way
permissive bridleway with the existing unnamed access road to picnic site from
Leicester Road in a north-easterly direction joining the new link road to
Point SU4 at the western side of the realigned pumping station access road, a
distance of 135.64 metres.     Wansford CP     Reference SU5 to SU6       A
cycle track on the south side of the new link to filling station and Sacrewell
Farm from point SU5 at the eastern side of the realigned pumping station
access road in an easterly direction to the western side of the existing
western access to the filling station at Point SU6, a distance of 295 metres.
Wansford CP     Reference SU7 to SU8       A cycle track on the south side of
the new link to filling station and Sacrewell Farm from Point SU7 at the
eastern side of the western access to the filling station in an easterly
direction to Point SU8 at the western side of the eastern access to the
filling station, a distance of 28 metres.     The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 4 Sutton CP     Reference SU9 to SU10       A shared cycle track
on the south side of the new link to filling station and Sacrewell Farm and
the A47 trunk road from Point SU9 at the eastern side of the existing eastern
access to the filling station in an easterly direction to Point SU10, a
distance of 649 metres.     Sutton CP     Reference FP1 to FP2       A new
footpath to the south of the A47 trunk road in a southerly and then easterly
direction from point FP2, 1,112 metres east of the Wansford eastern roundabout
in an easterly direction, to point FP1 at Wansford footpath 4, a distance of
67 metres.     Sutton CP     Reference BR7 to BR1       A bridleway crossing
the A47 trunk road in the vicinity of Sutton Heath Road:       8     from
point BR7 on the stopped up A47, 1,275 metres east of the Wansford eastern
roundabout, in a southerly direction to point BR6, a distance of 21 metres;
9     from point BR6 in an easterly direction to point BR5, a distance of 18
metres;         10     from point BR5 in a northerly direction under the
existing bridge under the stopped up A47 and through a new underpass under the
A47 trunk road to point BR4, a distance of 53 metres;         11     from
point BR4 in an easterly direction to point BR3, a distance of 49 metres;
12     from point BR3 in a northerly direction to point BR2, a distance of 10
metres; and         13     from point BR2 in a westerly direction to point
BR1, a distance of 38 metres.         14     NOTE: between point BR5 and point
BR4 the bridleway is subject to:     a     the existing road bridge carrying
the de-trunked A47; and         b     the underpass under the A47 trunk road
where headroom for users is subject to a limitation of 2.7 metres.
Sutton CP     Reference BR7 to BR8 (sheet 6)       A bridleway along the
southern side of the stopped up A47 Roman Road from point BR7 in an easterly
and then south-easterly direction to point BR8 (sheet 6) at the junction with
The Drift, a distance of 577 metres.     The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 6 Sutton CP     Reference SU11 to SU14 (sheet 7)       A cycle track
along the southern side of the detrunked A47 from point SU11, 67 metres east
of the Wansford eastern roundabout, in a south-easterly direction to point
SU14 on the western side of Nene Way, a distance of 682 metres.     Sutton CP
Reference BR8 to BR9       A bridleway along the stopped up The Drift from
point BR8 at the western access to The Drift from the detrunked A47, in a
south-easterly direction to point BR9 on The Drift, a distance of 278 metres.
Sutton CP     Reference SU12 to SU13       A cycle track along the stopped up
The Drift from point SU12 a the eastern access to The Drift from the detrunked
A47, in a south-westerly and then south-easterly direction to point SU13 on
The Drift, a distance of 50 metres.     The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 7 Sutton CP     Reference FW1 to FW2       A footway on the eastern side
of Nene Way, from point FW1, 17 metres south of its junction with Peterborough
Road passing onto the southern side of Peterborough Road, to point FW2, a
distance of 40.11 metres.     Sutton CP     Reference FW3 to FW4       A
footway on the northern side of Peterborough, from point FW3, 30 metres east
of its junction with Nene Way in an easterly direction to point FW4, a
distance of 81.40 metres.

##### ROADS TO BE DETRUNKED

          (1)       Parish         (2)       Length of Road       The
detrunking plans – sheets 3 and 4 Wansford CP A length of 334 metres of the
existing A47 Trunk Road from point A, 87 metres north-west of the Pumping
Station, to Point B. The detrunking plans – sheets 6 and 7 Sutton CP A length
of 512 metres of the existingA47 Trunk Road from point C, 50 metres north-west
of the junction between A47 and The Drift, to point D.

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

          (1)       Parish         (2)       Road name, number and length
(3)       Measures       The traffic regulation plans – sheet 3     Thornhaugh
CP       Wansford CP     New free flow link A1 Southbound to A47 eastbound
From point X1 122 metres south of Thornhaugh bridleway 8 (Windgate Way), in a
southerly then south-easterly then easterly direction to point X2 (sheet 3), a
distance of 1,246 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders). The
traffic regulation plans – sheet 3 Wansford CP Wansford eastern roundabout The
whole of the roundabout from point I around the roundabout to point I, a
distance of 151 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders).
Wansford CP       Sutton CP     A47 Trunk Road eastbound From point D in an
easterly direction to point R (sheet 6), a distance of 1,751 metres. Clearway
(including verges, hardshoulders).     Wansford CP       Sutton CP     A47
Trunk Road westbound From point E in an easterly direction to point W (sheet
6), a distance of 1,747 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders).
The traffic regulation plans – sheet 6 Sutton CP Sutton Heath Roundabout The
whole roundabout from point AB around the roundabout to point AB, a distance
of 175 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders). Sutton CP A47 Trunk
Road eastbound From point T in an easterly direction to point X14 (sheet 7), a
distance of 825 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders). Sutton CP
A47 Trunk Road eastbound From point U in an easterly direction to point X12
(sheet 7), a distance of 824 metres. Clearway (including verges,
hardshoulders).

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS & PROVISION OF
NEW HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

Articles 13, 17, and 28

  The provisions described in this Schedule are shown on the rights of way and
access plans in the following manner—     a     Existing highways are to be
stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule, are
shown by black diagonal hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way and
access plans) over the extent of the area to be stopped up, which is described
in column (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and given a reference label in
a square box (a capital A followed by a number).         b     New highways
which are to be substituted for a highway to be stopped up (or which are
otherwise to be provided), as are included in column (4) of Part 2 of this
Schedule, are shown by—     i     red honeycomb-hatching (for motorways and
trunk roads),         ii     blue cross-hatching (for other classified roads
and highways),         iii     yellow continuous lines (for cycle tracks), and
iv     a blue continuous line (for public footpaths),       (as shown in the
key on the rights of way and access plans) and are given a reference label in
a square (D for new highway to be substituted, SU for cycle tracks and FP for
footpaths) followed by a number and will be a road unless the word ‘footpath’,
‘bridleway’, ‘footway’ or ‘cycle track’ appears beneath its reference letter
in column (4) of Part 2 of this Schedule.         c     Private means of
access to be stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, are shown by blue diagonal hatching (as shown in the key on the
rights of way and access plans) over the extent of stopping up described in
column (3) of Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, and are given a reference label
in a square (a capital B followed by a number).         d     New private
means of access to be substituted for a private means of access to be stopped
up (or which are otherwise to be provided), as are included in column (4) of
Part 3 of this Schedule, are shown by purple hatching (as shown in the key on
the rights of way and access plans) and are given a reference label in a
square (a capital C followed by a number).         e     Private means of
access to be altered are included in column (2) of Part 5 of this Schedule,
are shown by purple line hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way
and access plans) and are given a reference label in a square (a capital C
followed by a number).

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

(1) Area (2) Highway to be stopped up (3) Extent of stopping up The rights of
way and access plans – sheet 3 Wansford  CP   Reference A2 Part of the Unnamed
Access Road to Picnic Site from Leicester Road and link to the pumping station
Reference A2 A length, from a point 103 metres north-west from the pumping
station, south of its junction with stopped up A47 in a south-westerly and
then southerly direction, a distance of 95 metres. Wansford  CP Reference A9
Part of the width of Unnamed Access Road to Picnic Site from Leicester Road
Reference A9 A length, from its boundary with the A1 trunk road in a north-
easterly direction, for a distance of 326 metres. The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 6 Sutton  CP Reference A6 Part of The Drift Reference A6 From
the junction of The Drift with the detrunked A47 in a south-easterly direction
for a distance of 271 metres. The rights of way and access plans – sheet 7
Sutton  CP ... Reference A8 Part of Upton Road and part of the Nene Way
roundabout Reference A8 Part of the Nene Way roundabout and a length of Upton
Road from its junction with the Nene Way roundabout in a north-easterly
direction for a distance of 298 metres.

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW HIGHWAYS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

(1) Area (2) Highway to be stopped up (3) Extent of stopping up (4) New
highway to be substituted/provided The rights of way and access plans – sheet
3 Wansford  CP   Reference A1 Part of the A47 Leicester Road Reference A1 A
length from its junction with the Wansford eastern roundabout, in an easterly
direction, to the new link to filling station and Sacrewell Farm, a distance
of 504 metres. References D1 and D2 Part of new link to filling station and
Sacrewell Farm To be substituted by the following lengths of new highway: 1
Reference D1 from the Wansford eastern roundabout in a southerly and then
easterly direction for a distance of 205 metres; and 2 Reference D2 from a
point 205 metres south of the Wansford eastern roundabout in an easterly
direction for a distance of 368 metres The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 4 Wansford  CP Reference A3 Wansford Footpath 4 Reference A3 From its
junction with the existing A47 in a south-easterly direction for a distance of
27 metres. Reference FP1 and FP2 To be substituted by a new footpath from
point FP1, 27 metres south-east of the existing junction of Wansford Footpath
4 with the existing A47, in a westerly and then northerly direction for 83
metres to Point FP2 on the A47 Trunk Road. Sutton  CP Reference A11 Part of
Sutton Heath Road Reference A11 From its junction with the existing A47 in a
northerly direction for a distance of 28 metres. Reference D3 and D5 To be
substituted by the following lengths of new highway: 1 Reference D3 (sheet 5)
from a point 75 metres south-east of the junction of Sutton Heath Road with
Langley Bush Road in a south-westerly direction for a distance of 117 metres;
and 2 Reference D5 (sheets 5 and 6) from Sutton Heath Roundabout for a
distance of 537 metres in a northerly direction to the existing Sutton Heath
Road Wansford  CP Sutton  CP Reference A5 Existing A47 Reference A5 A47
Leicester Road from a point 1,245 metres east of the Wansford eastern
roundabout in an easterly and then south-easterly direction to its junction
with The Drift (Sheet 6), a distance of 586 metres. References D6 and D7 To be
substituted by the following lengths of new highway: 1 Reference D6 (sheets 4
and 6) from a point 1245 metres east of the Wansford eastern roundabout in an
easterly direction along the A47 Trunk road to Sutton Heath roundabout, a
distance of 557 metres; and 2 Reference D7 (sheet 6) from a point on the
Sutton Heath roundabout, 1,800 metres east of the Wansford eastern roundabout,
in a southerly direction to the junction of the stopped up A47 with The Drift,
a distance of 94 metres. The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5 Sutton
CP Reference A4 Sutton Heath Road Reference A4 From the junction of Sutton
Heath Road with Langley Bush Road, in a southerly and then south-westerly
direction for a distance of 172 metres. References D4 and D3 To be substituted
by the following lengths of new highway: 1 Reference D4 from the junction of
Sutton Heath Road with Langley Bush Road in a south-easterly direction, for a
distance of 101 metres; and 2 Reference D3 from a point 75 metres south-east
of the junction of Sutton Heath Road with Langley Bush Road in a south-
westerly direction for a distance of 117 metres. The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 7 Sutton  CP Reference A7 Part of the existing A47 and part of
Nene Way roundabout and Peterborough Road Reference A7 A length of the
existing A47, from its junction with Peterborough Road in a westerly direction
or a distance of 285 metres and a length of the existing Nene Way roundabout
and a length of Peterborough Road from its junction with the Nene Way
roundabout in a southerly direction for a distance of 52 metres. Reference D8
(sheets 6 and 7) To be substituted by a new highway Reference D8 from the
junction of the Existing A47 with Nene Way in a westerly direction for a
distance of 695 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

(1) Area (2) Private means of access to be stopped (3) Extent of stopping up
(4) New private means of access to be substituted or provided The rights of
way and access plans – sheet 1   Thornhaugh CP   Reference B1 Access to the A1
Houses from the A1 trunk road southbound Reference B1 The whole of the private
access from the northern boundary of Thornhaugh Bridleway 8 (Windgate Way) in
a northerly direction for a distance of 72 metres. Reference C1 New private
access road to the A1 Houses from the junction of the A1 trunk road with the
access to Abbott’s Cottages and Sacrewell Lodge in an easterly direction for a
distance of 37 metres, and then a southerly direction for a distance of 260
metres to the northern boundary of Thornhaugh Bridleway 8 (Windgate Way). The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 3 Wansford  CP   Reference B3 Access to
Sacrewell Farm from the unnamed access road to picnic site from Leicester
Road. Reference B3 The whole of the private access track from its junction
with the stopped up A47 in a northerly direction for 232 metres to where the
access road diverges, and including the north-westerly diverge towards
Sacrewell Farm for a distance of 35 metres and the north-easterly diverge for
a distance of 9 metres. Reference C2 A new private means of access to
Sacrewell Farm from the new link to filling station and Sacrewell Farm in a
northerly direction passing through the Sacrewell Farm underbridge and
continuing in a northerly and then easterly direction to tie in with the
existing private access road which leads to the east of Sacrewell Farm, a
distance of 404 metres. Wansford  CP Reference B4 Access to field to the north
of the existing link to the A47. Reference B4 Private access along the
existing link from the existing A47, 280 metres south west of the Wansford
eastern roundabout Reference C8 New private access from the new link to the
petrol station to the existing road to be stopped up to the west of the
pumping station. This access will be used for the maintenance of existing
utilities along that existing road and also, for maintenance of the proposed
ecological mitigation area to the west to the petrol station road. Wansford
CP Reference A2 Part of the Unnamed Access Road to Picnic Site from Leicester
Road and link to the pumping station Reference A2 A length, from a point 103
metres north-west from the pumping station, south of its junction with stopped
up A47 in a south westerly and then southerly direction, a distance of 95
metres. Reference C9 New private access from the new link to the petrol
station to the existing road to be stopped up. This access will be used for
the maintenance of existing utilities along that existing road to the east of
the pumping station. Wansford  CP None None Reference C10 New private access
from the new link to the petrol station to the proposed A47 west bound verge.
This access will be used for maintenance of the proposed traffic monitoring
equipment in the mainline verge. The rights of way and access plans – sheet 4
Sutton  CP Reference B6 Access to Old Station House on the Western Side of
Sutton Heath Road 51 metres north of the junction of Sutton Heath Road with
the existing A47. Reference B6 The whole of the private access from a point 51
metres north of the junction of Sutton Heath Road with the existing A47 in a
northerly direction for a distance of 1 metre. Reference C3 A part new and
part improved private means of access to Old Station House from a point 51
metres north of the junction of Sutton Heath Road with the existing A47 in a
northerly direction, for a distance of 7 metres. The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 6 Sutton  CP None None Reference C4 A new private means of
access on the western side of the new link to Sutton Heath Road from a point
320 metres south of the junction of Sutton Heath Road and Langley Bush Road
(sheet 5) for a distance of 8.5 metres. Sutton  CP None None Reference C5 A
new private means of access on the eastern side of the new link to Sutton
Heath Road from a point 323 metres south of the junction of Sutton Heath Road
and Langley Bush Road (sheet 5) for a distance of 8.5 metres. Sutton  CP None
None Reference C7 A new private means of access to Deep Springs along the line
of the stopped up A47 from a point 60 metres south of the Sutton Heath
roundabout in a westerly direction for a distance of 266 metres. The rights of
way and access plans – sheet 7 Sutton  CP Reference B7 Field access on the
western side of Upton Road Reference B7 The whole of the private access from a
point 312 metres north east of the Nene Way roundabout in a north-easterly
direction for a distance of 5 metres. Reference C6 A new private means of
access on the western side Upton Road at the north-western end of the new
turning head on Upton Road from a point 317 metres north east of the Nene Way
roundabout in a north-easterly direction for a distance of 9 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

(1) Area (2) Private means of access to be stopped up (3) Extent of stopping
up The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2 Wansford  CP   Reference B2
Access to Sacrewell Farm from the A1, 472 metres south of Thornhaugh Bridleway
8 (Windgate Way). Reference B2 Part of the private access from a point 14
metres south of Thornhaugh Bridleway 8 (Windgate Way) in an easterly direction
for a distance of 39 metres. The rights of way and access plans – sheet 4
Wansford   CP   Reference B5 Private access road from existing A47 64 metres
north of the river Nene. Reference B5 A point extending 7 metres south from
the existing A47. Sutton   CP   Reference B8 Access along the Eastbound
carriageway of the existing A47, 65 metres west of the existing bridge over
the abandoned railway. Reference B8 A point extending for 34 metres heading
north east from the existing eastbound A47 carriageway.

##### ALTERATIONS TO PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

(1) Parish(es) (2) Private means of access to be altered The rights of way and
access plans – sheet 3 Wansford  CP   Reference C2A Modified southern access
to Sacrewell Farm from a point 2 metres north-west of the diverge in the
current access road in a north westerly and then westerly direction, a
distance of 30 metres.

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 27

          (1)       Plot reference number shown on land plans         (2)
Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired         (3)       Works for
which rights over land may be acquired       1/3f     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     2, 3 1/4b     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     2, 3 1/5a     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     2, 3 1/6b     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     2, 3 1/7b     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     2, 3 1/8b     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     2, 3 1/10d     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     5 3/1h     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     16, 18 3/1m     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     16 3/1n     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     16 3/2j     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
27 3/2l     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.         26
3/3h     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains,
sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables
including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     26 3/4d     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     16 3/4f     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables and 11kv electricity cable together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove water
pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     8, 16, 26, 27 3/4j     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     16 3/4k     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     16, 18 3/6b     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     16, 18 3/7b     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     16, 17, 18 3/7c     Divert, install,
underground, alter, create new connections to, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     17 3/7d     Divert,
install, underground, alter, create new connections to, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     17 3/8b     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, create new connections to, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     27 4/3e     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables
together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     29 4/6c     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, create new connections to, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     29, 31, 33, 36 4/7b     Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights, bat hotel and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables
including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     33, 34, 36 4/9e     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     33, 36, 37, 38 4/10a     Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     36 5/2c     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables
together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits
and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass and repass with or without
plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     36 5/4b     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     55, 56 5/4c     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables and 11kV electricity cable together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     57 5/4e
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables and 11kv
electricity cable together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     55, 57 5/4f     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     55, 56 5/6d     Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables
including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     56 5/6j     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     58 5/7b     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     56 5/7d
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     58 6/4f     Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     49 6/5c     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     49 7/3d     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     48 7/4c     Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     49 7/4e     Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     48, 52

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 27

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the compulsory purchase
of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

For section 5A(5A)  (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 6 to the A47 Wansford to Sutton
Development Consent Order 2023 (“ the A47 Wansford to Sutton Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the A47 Wansford to Sutton Order) to acquire an interest in
the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enter on and take possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article  30  (modification of
Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under article  24
(compulsory acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition of a
right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a restrictive
covenant under article  27(1)  (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph  4(a)  are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For Section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the posers
conferred by this or the special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to a compulsory acquisition
under article  24 ), it has power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and
subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that
right or enforcing that restrictive covenant; and sections—

5.5.a

11A  (powers of entry: further notices of entry);

5.5.b

11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified dated);

5.5.c

12  (unauthorised entry); and

5.5.d

13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority),

of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article  30 (4) (modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) is also modified so
as to enable the acquiring authority in circumstances corresponding to those
referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled to exercise the right
acquired, subject to compliance with that section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an undertaker serves a notice to treat in respect
of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part of a
house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting declaration
under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 as
applied by article 31 (application of the 1981 Act) of the A47 Wansford to
Sutton Development Consent Order 2023 in respect of the land to which the
notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 32(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47
Wansford to Sutton Development Consent Order 2023 which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the undertaker must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The undertaker must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the undertaker decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal it
must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the undertaker does not serve notice of a decision within the decision
period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision to
withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the undertaker serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice,
the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they are included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

############# Determination by the upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring authority
may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which
the Upper Tribunal makes it determination withdraw the notice to treat in
relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the undertaker withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph it must
pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss or
expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

5.8.15

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 34

          (1)       Location         (2)       Plot Reference Number shown on
land plans         (3)       Purpose for which temporary possession may be
taken         (4)       Relevant part of the authorised development
Parish of Thornhaugh 1/1a Temporary storage and working area to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels: a new private means
of access to 4 properties, diversion, protection and removal of potable water
pipes and the protection of the NGG gas pipeline including the crossing of
Work No. 2. 2, 3, 4 Parish of Thornhaugh 1/1c Temporary storage and working
area to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels: a new
private means of access to 4 properties, diversion, protection and removal of
potable water pipes, electronic communication cables and apparatus, and
overhead and underground electricity cables. 2, 3 Parish of Thornhaugh 1/1e
Temporary storage and working area to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels: diversion, protection and removal of potable water
pipes, electronic communication cables and apparatus, overhead and underground
electricity cables crossing Work No. 2 and       protection of NGG gas
pipeline.     3, 4 Parish of Thornhaugh 1/3a Temporary storage and working
area to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
diversion, protection and removal of potable water pipes, electronic
communication cables and apparatus, and overhead and underground electricity
cables and adjacent utility works. 3 Parish of Thornhaugh 1/3c Temporary
storage and working area to support construction of the following in adjoining
land parcels: diversion, protection and removal of potable water pipes,
electronic communication cables and apparatus, and overhead and underground
electricity cables and adjacent utility works. 3 Parish of Thornhaugh 1/9a
Protection, diversion and removal of existing water pipes, electricity and
telecommunications cables and associated apparatus       Temporary storage and
working area to support construction of the following in       adjoining land
parcels: new private means of access to 4 properties and a service vehicle
turning point including earthworks and associated drainage.       Temporary
storage and working area to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels: diversion, protection and removal of potable water
pipes, electronic communication cables and apparatus, and overhead and
underground electricity cables and adjacent utility works.     2, 3 Parish of
Thornhaugh 1/10a Temporary storage and working area to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels: diversion, protection and removal of
potable water pipes, electronic communication cables and apparatus, and
overhead and underground electricity cables and adjacent utility works. 3, 5
Parish of Wansford 2/1d     Temporary protection of electricity and
telecommunications cables and associated apparatus.       Temporary storage
and working area to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels: improvement to the eastbound carriageway of the existing A47
including the realignment of the central reserve and a new cycle crossing
point at the Wansford western roundabout.     12 Parish of Thornhaugh 2/3b
Temporary storage and working area to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels: new carriageway to create a free flow link from A1
southbound to the dualled A47 eastbound including embankments and associated
drainage.       Temporary storage and working area to support diversion and
removal of underground electronic communication cables and apparatus and
adjacent utilities works.     5, 6 Parish of Wansford 3/1c     Temporary
protection of electricity and telecommunications cables and associated
apparatus.       Temporary storage and working area to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels new carriageway to create a free flow
link from A1 southbound to the dualled A47 eastbound including embankments and
associated drainage.       Temporary storage to facilitate construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels: the dualling of the A47 mainline
including earthworks and associated drainage.       Temporary storage and
working area to support diversion, protection and removal of potable water
pipes, electronic communication cables and apparatus, and overhead and
adjacent utilities works.     1, 2, 6 Parish of Wansford 3/1j     Temporary
protection of electronic communications cables and associated apparatus.
Temporary access to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels: diversion and removal of electronic communication cables and
apparatus and diversion of water pipes and construction of a site office and
construction areas.     16 Parish of Wansford 3/1l     Temporary protection of
water pipes, sewers, electricity and telecommunications cables and associated
apparatus.       Temporary access to facilitate construction of the following
in adjoining land parcels: diversion and removal of electronic communication
cables and apparatus and diversion of water pipes and construction of a site
office and construction areas.     16 Parish of Wansford 3/1o     Temporary
protection of electronic communications cables and associated apparatus.
Temporary access to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels: diversion and removal of electronic communication cables and
apparatus and diversion of water pipes and construction of a site office and
construction areas.     16 Parish of Wansford 3/2c Temporary welfare and
compound area including a haul route. 24 Parish of Wansford 3/2e     Temporary
storage to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
the dualling of the A47 mainline from the existing Wansford eastern roundabout
to the existing A47 including earthworks and associated drainage.
Temporary storage and working area to facilitate construction of the following
in adjoining land parcels: a new Sacrewell Farm access road connecting to Work
No. 15 and running north passing through the Sacrewell Farm underbridge
including earthworks and drainage.       Temporary welfare and compound area
including a haul route.     1, 21, 24 Parish of Wansford 3/2i     Temporary
protection of water pipes and associated apparatus.       Temporary storage to
facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land parcels: the
dualling of the A47 mainline from the existing Wansford eastern roundabout to
the termination point to the east for tie into existing A47 including
earthworks and associated drainage.       Temporary storage and working area
to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land parcels: a new
Sacrewell Farm access road connecting to Work No. 15 and running north passing
through the Sacrewell Farm underbridge including earthworks and drainage.
Temporary welfare and compound area including a haul route.     1, 21, 24
Parish of Wansford 3/2k     Temporary storage to facilitate construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels: the dualling of the A47 mainline from
the existing Wansford eastern roundabout to the termination point to the east
for tie into existing A47 including earthworks and associated drainage.
Temporary welfare and compound area including a haul route.     1, 24 Parish
of Wansford 3/3d Temporary storage and working area to support provision of a
new Sacrewell Farm access road connecting to Work No. 15 and running north
passing through the Sacrewell Farm underbridge including earthworks and
drainage. 23 Parish of Wansford 3/3g Temporary storage and working area to
support provision of a new Sacrewell Farm access road connecting to Work No.
15 and running north passing through the Sacrewell Farm underbridge including
earthworks and drainage and access link to Sacrewell Farm. 23 Parish of
Wansford 3/4h     Temporary protection of electronic communications cables and
associated apparatus.       Temporary access to facilitate construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels: diversion and removal of electronic
communication cables and apparatus and diversion of water pipes, provision of
a site office and construction area and a new Sacrewell Farm Underbridge under
the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) including structural units, concrete foundations,
drainage and waterproofing.     16, 25 Parish of Wansford 3/4i     Temporary
protection of electronic communications cables and associated apparatus.
Temporary access to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels: diversion and removal of electronic communication cables and
apparatus and diversion of water pipes, provision of a site office and
construction area and       protection, diversion and resilience works to
large diameter water pipelines and associated apparatus and adjacent utility
works.     16, 27 Parish of Wansford 3/5a Temporary storage and working area
to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land parcels: the
removal of underground electricity cables crossing Work Nos. 1, 8, 10, 11, 13,
16, 17, 21 and 26, and improvements to the existing A1/A47 on and off ramps to
the Wansford east roundabout including earthwork widening. 9, 11, 27 Parish of
Wansford 4/2b     Temporary storage to facilitate construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels: the dualling of the A47 mainline from the
existing Wansford eastern roundabout to the existing A47 including earthworks
and associated drainage, the provision of support for a new balancing pond to
the north of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) including drainage inlets, an outlet
to river Nene and an access track.       Temporary storage and working area to
support the diversion and removal of overhead electrical cables and adjacent
utilities works.     1, 28, 29 Parish of Wansford and Parish of Sutton 4/2f
Temporary storage to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining
land parcels: the dualling of the A47 mainline from the existing Wansford
eastern roundabout to the existing A47 including earthworks and associated
drainage and adjacent utilities works. 1, 16, 26 Parish of Sutton 4/2i
Temporary storage to facilitate construction of the following in adjoining
land parcels: the dualling of the A47 mainline from the existing Wansford
eastern roundabout to the termination point to the existing A47 including
earthworks and associated drainage and adjacent utilities works and provision
of a new balancing pond to the north of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) including
drainage inlets, an outlet to river Nene and an access track. 1, 16, 26, 27,
28 Parish of Wansford 4/3d Temporary storage to facilitate construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels: the dualling of the A47 mainline from the
existing Wansford eastern roundabout to the existing A47 including earthworks
and associated drainage, a new length of carriageway to form a new link road
from A47 Wansford eastern roundabout (Work No. 13) and a new A47 westbound off
slip from the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) including earthworks, associated
drainage and a cycle track, and adjacent utilities works. 1, 15, 16, 29 Parish
of Wansford 4/3f Temporary storage and working area to support diversion and
removal of overhead electrical cables crossings and utilities works in
adjoining land parcels. 29 Parish of Sutton 4/5b Temporary storage and working
area to support diversion and removal of electronic communication cables and
apparatus and utilities works in adjoining land parcels. 36 Parish of Sutton
4/6b Temporary storage and working area to support diversion and removal of
overhead electrical cables crossings and utilities works in adjoining land
parcels. 29, 32 Parish of Sutton 4/9a Temporary access route from Work No. 37
turning to temporary welfare and compound area including a haul road to the
north of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) and a new temporary access track from
Work No. 37. 38 Parish of Sutton 5/3a Temporary storage and working area to
facilitate construction of the following in adjoining land parcels: new Sutton
Heath House roundabout (Work No. 44) north to Sutton Heath Road including
earthworks and drainage and access points. 42 Parish of Sutton 5/3b Temporary
storage and working area to facilitate construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels: new Sutton Heath House roundabout (Work No. 44) north
to Sutton Heath Road including earthworks and drainage and access points. 42
Parish of Upton 5/4d Temporary storage and working area to support diversion
of electronic overhead and underground communication cables and apparatus
crossings in adjoining land parcels. 56 Parish of Upton 5/5b Temporary storage
and working area to support improvements to the existing Upton Drift including
passing places and other works in adjoining land parcels. 55 Parish of Upton
5/6a Temporary storage and working area to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels: improvements to the existing Upton Drift
including passing places, widening the metalled surface into highway verge,
straightening of the S- bend and sight lines and widening of its existing
junction with Langley Bush Road and the existing junction adjacent to Model
Farm. 55 Parish of Upton 5/6c Temporary storage and working area to support
improvements to the existing Upton Drift including passing places in adjoining
land parcels. 55 Parish of Upton 5/6e Temporary storage and working area to
support improvements to the existing Upton Drift including passing places and
connected works in adjoining land parcels. 55 Parish of Upton 5/6g Temporary
storage and working area to support diversion of electronic overhead and
underground communication cables and apparatus crossings in adjoining land
parcels. 56 Parish of Upton 5/6h Temporary storage and working area to support
diversion of electronic overhead and underground communication cables and
apparatus crossing in adjoining land parcels. 56 Parish of Upton 5/6k
Temporary storage and working area to support diversion of the underground
cables and protection of the foul sewer crossings in adjoining land parcels.
58 Parish of Upton 5/6l Temporary storage and working area to support
improvements to the existing Upton Drift including passing places, widening
the metalled surface into highway verge, straightening of the S- bend and
sight lines and widening of its existing junction with Langley Bush Road and
the existing junction adjacent to Model Farm including earthworks and drainage
in adjoining land parcels. 55 Parish of Upton 5/7a Temporary storage and
working area to support improvements to the existing Upton Drift including
passing places, widening the metalled surface into highway verge,
straightening of the S- bend and sight lines and widening of its existing
junction with Langley Bush Road and the existing junction adjacent to Model
Farm including earthworks and drainage in adjoining land parcels. 55 Parish of
Upton 5/7c Temporary storage and working area to support improvements to the
existing Upton Drift including passing places, widening the metalled surface
into highway verge, straightening of the S- bend and sight lines and widening
of its existing junction with Langley Bush Road and the existing junction
adjacent to Model Farm including earthworks and drainage in adjoining land
parcels. 55 Parish of Upton 5/8a Temporary storage and working area to support
diversion of the underground cables and protection of the foul sewer crossings
in adjoining land parcels. 58 Parish of Sutton 6/1e Temporary storage and
working area to support with the creation of a new turning head to the
existing Drift with gated access for service providers for 250 metres
including earthworks, drainage, sub-base layers, pavement, signage, fence and
gates in adjoining land parcels. 47 Parish of Sutton 6/2a     Temporary
storage and working area to support a new access route from Work No. 37,
temporary welfare and compound area including haul road to the north of the
dualled A47 in adjoining land parcels.     38 Parish of Sutton 6/3f Temporary
storage and working area to support creation of new turning head to the
existing drift with gated access for service providers for 250 metres
including earthworks, drainage, sub-base layers, pavement, signage, fence, and
gates in adjoining land parcels. 47 Parish of Sutton 6/3h Temporary storage
and working area to support diversion and removal of existing electronic
communication cables and apparatus, underground electricity cables, and
utility works in adjoining land parcels. 48 Parish of Sutton 6/4a     To
support access route from Work No. 37.       Temporary welfare and compound
area including haul road to the north of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1).
To support diversion and removal of electronic communication cables and
apparatus, electrical cables and potable water pipes and adjacent utility
works in adjoining land parcels.     36, 38 Parish of Sutton 6/4e
Temporary storage and working area to support a new access route from Work No.
37.       Temporary welfare and compound area including haul road to the north
of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) and a new temporary access track from Work No.
37.     38 Parish of Sutton 6/4g     Temporary storage and working area to
support a new access route from Work No. 37. Temporary welfare and compound
area including haul road to the north of the dualled A47 (Work No. 1) and a
new temporary access track from Work No. 37.       Temporary storage and
working area to facilitate the protection, diversion and resilience works to
potable water pipes and associated apparatus and adjacent utility works in
adjoining land parcels.     38, 49 Parish of Sutton 6/5b Temporary storage and
working area to support the following in adjoining land parcel: diversion, and
removal of existing electronic communication cables and apparatus, underground
electricity cables, and adjacent utility works, ecological works and provision
of landscaping area to the south of the dualled A47. 39, 48 Parish of Sutton
6/5e Temporary storage and working area to support alterations to The Drift in
adjoining land parcels. 47 Parish of Sutton 7/3a Temporary storage and working
area to support alterations to The Drift and to facilitate the protection,
diversion and resilience works to potable water pipes and associated apparatus
and utility works in adjoining land parcels. 47, 49 Parish of Sutton 7/4b
Temporary storage and working area to support alterations to The Drift and to
support diversion and removal of existing electronic communication cables and
apparatus, underground electricity cables, and potable water pipes and utility
works in adjoining land parcels. 47, 48

  REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS AND TREES

Article 39

##### REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

          (1)       Location of hedgerow         (2)       Work to be carried
out         (3)       Relevant part of the authorised development
Located at the A1 side road, next to the proposed access to the properties on
the A1.       H2 shown on sheet 1 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal
Work nos. 2, 3 and 4     Located at A1 side road.       H3 shown on sheet 2 of
the Hedgerow Plans.     Full removal Work nos. 5, 6 and 7     Located at the
pond maintenance track next to the new proposed free flow link road from the
A1 to the A47.       H4 and H6 shown on sheets 3 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 9 and 10     Located at the proposed Sacrewell Farm
Access Road.       H7 shown on sheet 3 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial
removal Work no. 21     Located at the existing A47 near the proposed
Sacrewell Farm Access Road.       H9 shown on sheet 3 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 1, 8, 9, 17 and 21     Located at the existing A47
nearby the proposed Sacrewell Farm Access Road.       H11 and H13 on sheet 3
of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 8, 17 and 21     Located
at the existing A47 near the existing Sacrewell Farm link road.       H15
shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos.
1, 15, 16, 27 and 28     Located at the existing A47 near the existing
Sacrewell Farm link road.       H16 shown on sheet 3 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Full removal Work nos. 8, 15, 16, 26 and 27     Located at the existing A47
where it overlaps with the proposed A47.       H17 shown on sheet 4 of the
Hedgerow Plans.     Full removal Work nos. 1, 15, 16, 28, 29, 30, 33, 36 and
40     Located at the existing A47 where it overlaps with the proposed A47.
H19 shown on sheet 4 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 1,
16 and 28     Located at the new link to Sutton Heath Road and Langley Bush
Road.       H21 shown on sheet 5 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal
Work nos. 36, 42 and 43     Located near the new A47 Sutton Roundabout.
H29 shown on sheet 6 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 1
and 38     Located at the new link to Sutton Heath Road.       H31 shown on
sheet 6 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 36 and 42
Located at the new A47 Sutton roundabout.       H33 shown on sheet 6 of the
Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 1, 36 and 46     Located at the
proposed A47 dual carriageway.       H35 shown on sheet 6 of the Hedgerow
Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 1 and 49     Located at the proposed A47
dual carriageway.       H38 shown on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 1 and 48     Located at the existing A47 where it is
used as cycle path/footway.       H39 shown on sheet 6 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 36 and 40     Located at the new link with
Peterborough Road.       H42 shown on sheet 6 and 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 45, 48 and 49     Located at the new pond near Nene
Way.       H44 shown on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal
Work nos. 48 and 50     Located at the new link with Peterborough Road.
H46 shown on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 45,
48 and 50     Located at the new link with Peterborough Road       H49 shown
on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 45, 48, 50 and
52     Located at the proposed A47 dual carriageway.       H51 shown on sheet
7 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 1 and 48     Located at
Upton Road.       H53 shown on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Partial
removal Work nos. 53 and 54     Located at Upton Road.       H54 shown on
sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans.     Full removal Work nos. 53 and 54
Located at Upton Drift.       H55 and H56 shown on sheet 5 (Inset 5B) of the
Hedgerow Plans.     Full removal Work nos. 55, 56, 57 and 58

##### REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS

          (1)       Location of hedgerow         (2)       Work to be carried
out         (3)       Relevant part of the authorised development
Located at the new link to Sutton Road.       H23 shown on sheet 5 of the
Hedgerow Plans.     Partial removal Work nos. 36, 42 and 43     Located at the
new link to Sutton Road.       H25 shown on sheet 5 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 36 and 41     Located at the Wansford NMU Underpass
to Sutton Heath Road.       H27 shown on sheet 4 of the Hedgerow Plans.
Partial removal Work nos. 1, 33, 37 and 38

PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 36 and 46

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise identified in
another Part of this Schedule or agreed in writing between the undertaker and
the utility undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an
electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 ), belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker;
in that case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1
of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of water
undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that
utility undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in the case of a
sewerage undertaker— any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under
the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4)
(adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt
made under section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers, drains or sewage disposal
works at future date) of that Act , and includes a sludge main, disposal main
(within the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation)  of that Act) or
sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works,

and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus;

“ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “plan” include all designs,
drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes,
calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably
necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be executed; and
“ utility undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
(electricity supply) of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 (gas supply) of the Gas Act 1986; a water undertaker within
the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and a sewerage undertaker within
the meaning of Part 1 (preliminary) of the Water Industry Act 1991,

for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus,
means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any utility
undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same powers and rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to the utility undertaker legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to the utility undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access
to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of
the utility undertaker to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 7 (removal of apparatus) or the power of the undertaker to carry out
works under paragraph 9 (retained apparatus).

4.2

Regardless of the temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction
of the use of streets under the powers conferred by article  16  (temporary
stopping up and restriction of use of streets), a utility undertaker is at
liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such stopped up
highway and to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any
such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to
maintain any apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was
in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 49 (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 49 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 49 (arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2) (removal of apparatus),
the undertaker must submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the
works to be executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) are to
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (5)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

9.7

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
10 metres measured in any direction of any electricity apparatus, or involve
embankment works within 10 metres of any electricity apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to the utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be
detailed, include a method statement and describe—

9.7.a

the exact position of the works;

9.7.b

the level at which they are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.7.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

9.7.d

the position of all electricity apparatus; and

9.7.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to such
apparatus.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2) (removal of apparatus).

10.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph, that value
being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 49 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph  (1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

###### 

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 (protective work to
buildings) or 7(2) (removal of apparatus) any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any
utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1) .

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise of any proceedings necessary to resist
the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) (removal of apparatus) or a utility
undertaker makes requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus
under paragraph 9 (retained apparatus), the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each utility undertaker must use its
best endeavours to co- operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ electronic
communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has the same
meaning as in Chapter 1 (electronic communications, networks and services) of
Part 2 of the 2003 Act ; “ electronic communications code network ” means— so
much of an electronic communications network or infrastructure system provided
by an electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the
application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section
106 (application of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and
an electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide; “ electronic communications code operator ” means a
person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; “ infrastructure system ” has the
same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references to
providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7(2) of that code; and “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article  36  (statutory undertakers)
is subject to Part 10 (undertakers’ works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
49 (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damages, or any interruptions, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER

###### Application

18

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

###### Interpretation

19

In this part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient
than previously; “ apparatus ” means— any works, mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes of
water supply and sewerage; any drain or works vested in Anglian Water under
The Water Industry Act 1991, any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of
a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption of sewers
and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under section
104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewage disposal works, at future
date) of that Act; and includes a sludge main, disposal main or sewer outfall
and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part
of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus

and for the purpose of this definition, where words are defined by section 219
(general interpretation) of the Water Industry Act 1991 they shall be taken to
have the same meaning.

“ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ” includes all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed.

###### On street apparatus

20

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Schedule of apparatus

21

21.1

Before commencement of any work set out in Schedule 1 to divert any apparatus
the undertaker will provide Anglian Water with a schedule of apparatus which
will be diverted as part of the authorised development setting out for each
piece of apparatus whether those works are to be undertaken under this
Schedule or under the 1991 Act and, where a diversion is to be carried out
partly under this Schedule and partly under the 1991 Act, details of which
part of the diversion is to be carried out under which power.

21.2

The undertaker may from time to time provide to Anglian Water amendments to
the schedule referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

21.3

No amendment may be submitted under sub-paragraph  (2)  in respect of
apparatus which is to be diverted as part of a work set out in Schedule 1, or
which comprises such a work, after that work has commenced.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

22

22.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), where Anglian
Water has apparatus in the street or accessed by virtue of that street, it has
the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Anglian
Water legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Anglian Water in respect of
such apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any
right of the undertaker or of Anglian Water to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph  2 5 (removal of apparatus) or the power of the
undertaker to carry out works under paragraph  2 7 (retained apparatus).

22.2

Regardless of the temporary alteration, diversion or prohibition of the use of
or restriction of the use of any highway under the powers conferred by article
16  (temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets), Anglian Water
is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such
altered, diverted, prohibited or restricted highway and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the alteration, diversion or prohibition of use of or restriction of
use was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

23

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

24

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

25

25.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that Anglian Water’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must
not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right of Anglian
Water to maintain that apparatus in that land must not (without the prior
written consent of Anglian Water) be extinguished, until—

25.1.a

alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(2)  to  (8) ; and

25.1.b

facilities and rights have been secured for that alternative apparatus in
accordance with paragraph  2 6 (facilities and rights for alternative
apparatus).

25.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Anglian Water 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with a
plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an undertaker
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to Anglian Water the necessary facilities and
rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the
undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

25.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect
from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best endeavours to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

25.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Anglian Water and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with   article 49
(arbitration).

25.5

Anglian Water must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 49   (arbitration), and after the grant to Anglian Water of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

25.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if Anglian Water gives notice
in writing to the undertaker that it desires the undertaker to execute any
work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or removal of
apparatus in any land of the undertaker, or to the extent that Anglian Water
fails to proceed with that work in accordance with sub-paragraph  (5)  or the
undertaker and Anglian Water otherwise agree, that work, instead of being
executed by Anglian Water, must be executed by the undertaker without
unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable
satisfaction of Anglian Water.

25.7

Notice under sub-paragraph  (6)  that Anglian Water desires the undertaker to
execute any work, or part of any work, must be given within 14 days of
agreement under sub-paragraph  (4)  or, in default of agreement, within 14
days of the date of settlement by arbitration under sub-paragraph  (4) .

25.8

If Anglian Water fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide reasons for
its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be required to
make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal works under
sub-paragraph  (2)  within 28 days of receiving a notice of the required works
from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been approved. For
the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent” does not extend to the
actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall remain the sole
responsibility of Anglian Water or its contractors.

25.9

Whenever alternative apparatus is to be or is being substituted for existing
apparatus, the undertaker shall, before taking or requiring any further step
in such substitution works, use best endeavours to comply with Anglian Water’s
reasonable requests for a reasonable period of time to enable Anglian Water
to—

25.9.a

make network contingency arrangements; or

25.9.b

bring such matters as it may consider reasonably necessary to the attention of
end users of the utility in question.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

26

26.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to Anglian Water facilities and rights for the construction
and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights are to
be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
undertaker and Anglian Water or in default of agreement settled by arbitration
in accordance with article 49 (arbitration).

26.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Anglian Water than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Anglian Water as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

26.3

Such facilities and rights as are set out in this paragraph are deemed to
include any statutory permits granted to the undertaker in respect of the
apparatus in question, whether under the Environmental Permitting (England and
Wales) Regulations 2016 or other legislation.

###### Retained apparatus

27

27.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus (or any means of access to it)
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
25(2)  (removal of apparatus), the undertaker must submit to Anglian Water a
plan of the works to be executed.

27.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  by Anglian Water for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and Anglian Water is entitled to watch and inspect the execution
of those works.

27.3

Any requirements made by Anglian Water under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be made
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under sub-
paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

27.4

If Anglian Water, in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs  (1)  to  (3)  and  (6)  to  (7)  apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  25(2) .

27.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

27.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case must give to Anglian Water notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph  (3)  in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and will keep the impact of
those emergency works on Anglian Water’s apparatus, on the operation of its
water and sewerage network and on end-users of the services Anglian Water
provides to a minimum.

27.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , works are deemed to be in land near
Anglian Water’s apparatus (where it is a pipe) if those works fall within the
following distances measured from the medial line of such apparatus—

27.7.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres;

27.7.b

3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres;

27.7.c

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 451 and 750 millimetres;
and

27.7.d

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres.

###### Expenses and costs

28

28.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Anglian Water all expenses reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this
Part of the Schedule.

28.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule that value being calculated after removal.

28.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

28.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

28.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with   article 49   (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Anglian Water by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)
must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

28.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

28.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

28.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

28.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian
Water in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Anglian Water any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

29

29.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs  2 3 (protective
work to buildings) or  25(2)  (removal of apparatus), or by reason of any
subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage is caused to
any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of
which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of those works) or property of Anglian Water, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
Anglian Water, the undertaker must—

29.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

29.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the undertaker, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption.

29.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Anglian Water on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Anglian Water or in
accordance with any requirement of Anglian Water or under its supervision does
not, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1)  unless Anglian Water fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and professional like manner or in a manner that does not accord with
the approved plan.

29.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

29.4

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the consent of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) who,
if withholding such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

30

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Anglian Water requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph  25(2)  (removal of apparatus) or Anglian Water makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  2
7 (retained apparatus), the undertaker must use all reasonable endeavours to
co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of safety and the
efficient and economic execution of the authorised development and taking into
account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of Anglian Water’s
undertaking and Anglian Water must use all reasonable endeavours to co-operate
with the undertaker for that purpose.

31

Where the undertaker identifies any apparatus which may belong to or be
maintainable by Anglian Water but which does not appear on any statutory map
kept for the purpose by Anglian Water, it shall inform Anglian Water of the
existence and location of the apparatus as soon as reasonably practicable.

32

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

33

Any time period in which an action must be taken in this part of the Schedule
may be amended by written agreement between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NGG AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

34

34.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

34.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and NGG, where the benefit of this Order is transferred
or granted to another person under article  10  (consent to transfer benefit
of Order)—

34.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect as if it
had been made between NGG and the transferee or grantee (as the case may be);
and

34.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to NGG on or before the
date of that transfer or grant.

34.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply where the benefit of the Order is
transferred or granted to NGG (but see paragraph  44(3)(b) ).

###### Interpretation

35

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “ alternative
apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the reasonable
satisfaction of NGG to enable NGG to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means any gas mains,
pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections, cables or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by NGG for the purposes of gas supply
together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed
pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of NGG for the
purposes of transmission, distribution or supply and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to the term
“authorised development” in article  2(1)  (interpretation) of this Order and
for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and
maintenance of the authorised works and construction of any works authorised
by this Schedule; “commence” and “commencement” in paragraph  4 2 (retained
apparatus: protection of gas undertaker) of this Part of this Schedule
includes any below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the
receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment, “ deed of consent ”
means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of
grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, and other such interests so as to secure land
rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use
the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this
Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme
” means a scheme approved by NGG (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground
subsidence event; “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring
ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such
monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground
levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and
the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, requires the undertaker to
submit for NGG’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence
event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities
set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described
in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in”
in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes
a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along
or upon such land; “maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the ability and
right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative
apparatus of NGG including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or
remove the apparatus; “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; “ specified
works ” means any of the authorised works or activities undertaken in
association with the authorised works which— will or may be situated over, or
within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 40(2) (removal
of apparatus) or otherwise; or may in any way adversely affect any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
40(2) or otherwise.

36

Except for paragraphs  3 7 (apparatus of NGG in stopped up streets), 42
(retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker), 43 (expenses) and  4 4
(indemnity) of this Part of this Schedule which will apply in respect of the
exercise of all or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and
apparatus of NGG, the other provisions of this Schedule do not apply to
apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and NGG are
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of NGG in stopped up streets

37

37.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if NGG has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street NGG has the same rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to NGG, or procure the granting to NGG of, legal
easements reasonably satisfactory to NGG in respect of such apparatus and
access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street but nothing in this
paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or NGG to require the removal of
that apparatus under paragraph 40 (removal of apparatus) or the power of the
undertaker, subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works
under paragraph 42 (retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker).

37.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of any
highway under the powers of article  16  (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), NGG will be at liberty at all times to take
all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do all such
works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the alteration, diversion or restriction was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

38

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of NGG (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

39

39.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of NGG otherwise than by agreement.

39.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
prior to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between NGG and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of NGG or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between NGG and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as NGG reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between NGG and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to NGG unless otherwise agreed by NGG, and it will be the responsibility of
the undertaker to procure and secure the consent and entering into of such
deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land
at that time who are affected by such authorised works.

39.3

The undertaker and NGG agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by NGG or other enactments relied
upon by NGG as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the
provisions in this Schedule prevail.

39.4

Any agreement or consent granted by NGG under paragraph  42  (retained
apparatus: protection of gas undertaker) or any other paragraph of this Part
of this Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under sub-
paragraph  (1) .

###### Removal of apparatus

40

40.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of NGG to maintain that apparatus in that land
must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, and
is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of NGG in accordance with sub-
paragraphs  (2)  to  (5) .

40.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to NGG
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work
proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order NGG reasonably needs to remove
any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) ,
afford to NGG to its reasonable satisfaction (taking into account paragraph
41(1) ) the necessary facilities and rights—

40.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

40.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

40.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)  in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, NGG must, on receipt of a written notice
to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are reasonable in the
circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in
the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that
this obligation does not extend to the requirement for NGG to use its
compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it elects to so do.

40.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between NGG and the undertaker.

40.5

NGG must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the grant to NGG of any such facilities and rights
as are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker
to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

41

41.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for NGG facilities and rights in land for the
construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be
granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker
and NGG and must be no less favourable on the whole to NGG than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed unless
otherwise agreed by NGG.

41.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph  (1)  above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms
and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted,
are less favourable on the whole to NGG than the facilities and rights enjoyed
by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions
to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be referred
to arbitration in accordance with paragraph  4 8 (arbitration) of this Part of
this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of
compensation by the undertaker to NGG as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker

42

42.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to NGG a plan and, if reasonably required by NGG, a
ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

42.2

The plan to be submitted to NGG under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include a
method statement and describe—

42.2.a

the exact position of the works;

42.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

42.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

42.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

42.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

42.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

42.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until NGG has given
written approval of the plan so submitted.

42.4

Any approval of NGG required under sub-paragraph  (3) —

42.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs  (5)  or  (7) ; and,

42.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

42.5

NGG may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

42.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

42.6.a

the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph  (1) , as approved or as amended from
time to time by agreement between the undertaker and NGG; and

42.6.b

such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(5)  or  (7)  by NGG for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and NGG will be entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of those works.

42.7

Where under sub-paragraph  (6)  NGG requires any protective works to be
carried out by itself or by the undertaker such protective works (whether of a
temporary or permanent nature) must be carried out to NGG’s satisfaction prior
to the commencement of any specified works for which protective works are
required and NGG must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42
days of the date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in
an emergency).

42.8

If NGG in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (5)  or  (7)  and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
paragraphs  3 4 to  3 6 and  3 9 to  4 1 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  40(2)  (removal
of apparatus).

42.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

42.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised works—

42.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

42.10.b

NGG retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works for
the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with
paragraph 43 (expenses).

42.11

The undertaker is not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to NGG notice
as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with sub-paragraphs  (5) ,  (6)  and  (7)  insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

42.12

In sub-paragraph  (11) , “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at
the time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to
prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

43

43.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to NGG within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim from NGG all
charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated within the following three
months or reasonably and properly incurred by NGG in, or in connection with,
the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which
may be required in consequence of the execution of any authorised works
including without limitation—

43.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by NGG in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by NGG as a
consequence of NGG—

43.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  40(3)  (removal of apparatus); or

43.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting NGG;

43.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

43.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

43.1.d

the approval of plans;

43.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

43.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

43.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

43.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

43.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

43.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph  4 8 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to NGG by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

43.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

43.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

43.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

43.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to NGG in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works include
the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more
than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on NGG any financial benefit
by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course,
be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

44

44.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of NGG, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by NGG, or NGG becomes
liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker will—

44.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from NGG the cost
reasonably and properly incurred by NGG in making good such damage or
restoring the supply; and

44.1.b

indemnify NGG for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from NGG, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption or NGG becoming liable to any
third party as aforesaid other than arising from any default of NGG.

44.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by NGG on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by NGG or in accordance with
any requirement of NGG or under its supervision will not (unless sub-paragraph
(3)  applies) excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this sub-paragraph  (1)  unless NGG fails to carry out and execute the works
properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner
or in a manner that does not accord with the approved plan.

44.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

44.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of NGG, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;

44.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by NGG in the exercise of any
functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article  10  (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

44.4

NGG must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party claim
or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, be
made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

44.5

NGG must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by the
undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

44.6

NGG must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise any costs,
expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under this
paragraph applies where it is within NGG’s reasonable ability and control to
do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate liability
arising from third parties which is outside of NGG’s control and if reasonably
requested to do so by the undertaker NGG must provide an explanation of how
the claim has been minimised, where relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

45

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and NGG in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker
on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

46

46.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or NGG requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph  40(2)  (removal of apparatus) or NGG makes requirements for
the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  4 2 (retained
apparatus: protection of gas undertaker), the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised works and
taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
NGG’s undertaking and NGG must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

46.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or NGG’s consent,
agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or other
information submitted under this schedule, or agreement is required to be
reached between the parties under this schedule, it must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.

###### Access

47

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  39(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers granted under this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable NGG to maintain
or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such
obstruction.

###### Arbitration

48

Save for differences or disputes arising under   paragraphs 40 (removal of
apparatus) and 41   (facilities and rights for alternative apparatus), any
difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and NGG under this Part
of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and NGG, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 49
(arbitration).

###### Notices

49

Notwithstanding article 48 (service of notices), any plans submitted to NGG by
the undertaker pursuant to paragraph  4 2 (retained apparatus: protection of
gas undertaker) must be sent to https://lsbud.co.uk/ and National Grid Plant
Protection at  assetprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as NGG
may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PLC AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER

###### Application

50

50.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

50.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article  10  (consent to
transfer benefit of Order)—

50.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

50.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

50.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply where the benefit of the Order is
transferred or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph  60(3)(b) ).

###### Interpretation

51

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its
statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus
” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by National Grid together with any
replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to the
Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of
transmission, distribution or supply and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to the term
“authorised development” in article  2(1)  (interpretation) of this Order and
for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and
maintenance of the authorised works and construction of any works authorised
by this Schedule; “commence” and “commencement” in paragraph 58 (retained
apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) of this Part of this Schedule
includes any below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the
receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment, “ deed of consent ”
means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of
grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, and other such interests so as to secure land
rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use
the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this
Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme
” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any)
for a ground subsidence event; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative
apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “
maintenance ” includes the ability and right to do any of the following in
relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of National Grid including
construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “
National Grid ” means National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc (company
number 02366977), whose registered office is 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or
any successor as a licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the
Electricity Act ; “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; “ specified
works ” means any of the authorised works or activities undertaken in
association with the authorised works which— will or may be situated over, or
within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  56(2)  (removal
of apparatus) or otherwise; or may in any way adversely affect any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
56(2)  or otherwise.

###### 

52

Except for   paragraphs 53   (apparatus of National Grid in stopped up
streets), 58 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker), 59
(expenses) and 60 (indemnity) of this Schedule which will apply in respect of
the exercise of all or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and
apparatus of National Grid, the other provisions of this Schedule do not apply
to apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and
National Grid are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

53

53.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if National Grid
has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid has
the same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before
the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to National Grid, or procure the
granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to
National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the
stopping up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right
of the undertaker or National Grid to require the removal of that apparatus
under paragraph  5 6 (removal of apparatus) or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under
paragraph  5 8 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker).

53.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of any
highway under the powers of article  16  (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), National Grid will be at liberty at all times
to take all necessary access across any such stopped up street and to execute
and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be
reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which
at the time of the alteration, diversion or restriction was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

54

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld)

###### Acquisition of land

55

55.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement.

55.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
prior to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all
other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected
by such authorised works.

55.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid or other
enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

55.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 58 (retained
apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) or any other paragraph of
this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under
sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Removal of apparatus

56

56.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)  to  (5) .

56.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph  57(1) ) the necessary facilities and rights—

56.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

56.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

56.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)  in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

56.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

56.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

57

57.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

57.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under paragraph
(1)  above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph  6 4 (arbitration) of
this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

58

58.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

58.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve
embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted
to National Grid under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include a method statement and
describe—

58.2.a

the exact position of the works;

58.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

58.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

58.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

58.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

58.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

58.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

58.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2) , include a method statement describing—

58.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

58.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

58.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

58.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

58.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

58.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

58.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

58.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to 26 tonnes in weight.

58.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or
(3)  apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so
submitted.

58.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraphs  (4) —

58.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8) ; and,

58.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

58.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)  apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

58.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)  must be executed in
accordance with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  or as relevant
sub-paragraph  (6) , as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement
between the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)
or  (8)  by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

58.8

Where under sub-paragraph  (6)  National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any specified works for which protective works are required and National
Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

58.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 50 to  5 2 and  5 5 to  5 7 apply as if the removal of
the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  56(2)
(removal of apparatus).

58.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

58.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where
it needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to
National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those
works and must comply with sub-paragraphs  (6) ,  (7)  and  (8)  insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

58.12

In sub-paragraph  (11)  “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to or to
prevent the occurrence of circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

59

59.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised works including without limitation—

59.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

59.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  56(3)  (removal of apparatus); or

59.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

59.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

59.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

59.1.d

the approval of plans;

59.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

59.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

59.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

59.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

59.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

59.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 64 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

59.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

59.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

59.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

59.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

60

60.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

60.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

60.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

60.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph  (3)  applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph  (1)  unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

60.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

60.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

60.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by National Grid in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article  10  (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

60.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

60.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

60.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

61

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

62

62.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph  56(2)  (removal of apparatus) or National Grid
makes requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under
paragraph  5 8 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker), the
undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the
works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and
efficient operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use
its best endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

62.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s
consent, agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or
other information submitted under this schedule, or agreement is required to
be reached between the parties under this schedule, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

63

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  55(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers granted under this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

64

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs  56(2)  and (4)
(removal of apparatus), and  57(1)  (facilities and rights for alternative
apparatus), any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and
National Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 49 (arbitration).

###### Notices

65

Notwithstanding article 48 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph  5 8 (retained
apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) must be sent to
https://lsbud.co.uk/ and National Grid Plant Protection at
plantprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION (EAST MIDLANDS) PLC AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER

###### Application

66

For the protection of NGED the following provisions have effect, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and NGED.

###### Interpretation

67

In this Part—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable NGED
to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less efficient than
previously and where the context requires includes any part of such
alternative apparatus; “ alternative rights ” means all and any necessary
legal easements, leases, consents, or permissions required by NGED in order to
permit or authorise a diversion and to permit or authorise NGED to lay, keep,
operate, maintain, adjust, repair, alter, relay, renew, supplement, inspect,
examine, test and remove the alternative apparatus; “ apparatus ” means
electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity Act 1989,
belonging to or maintained by NGED; “ diversion ” means an alteration to the
NGED Network in order to enable or facilitate the authorised development; “
functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ NGED Network ” means
NGED’s distribution network operated pursuant to its distribution licence
issued pursuant to section 6  of the Electricity Act 1989; “plan” or “ plans ”
includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, programmes,
calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably
necessary to properly and sufficiently describe and assess the works to be
executed; and “ specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised
development that is carried out within 6 metres of any apparatus.

###### Precedence of 1991 Act in respect of apparatus in streets

68

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and NGED are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### No acquisition except by agreement

69

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

70

70.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be removed
under this Part of this Schedule and any right of NGED to maintain that
apparatus in that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus
has been constructed, alternative rights acquired or granted for the
alternative apparatus and the alternative apparatus is in operation and access
to it has been provided if necessary to the reasonable satisfaction of NGED in
accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (10)  or with such alternative or
supplementary provisions as the undertaker and NGED may agree between them.

70.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to NGED written
notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of
the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed.

70.3

If as a consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this
Order NGED reasonably needs to remove or divert any of its apparatus and the
removal of that apparatus has not been required by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph  (2)  then NGED must give to the undertaker written notice of that
requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed
position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and this
Part has effect as if the removal or diversion of such apparatus had been
required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph  (2) .

70.4

If as a consequence of the removal or diversion of apparatus under sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  alternative apparatus is to be constructed in land
owned or controlled by the undertaker then the undertaker must afford to NGED
the necessary facilities and alternative rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in the other land owned or controlled by the undertaker.

70.5

If the undertaker or NGED requires to remove or divert any apparatus placed
within the Order land and alternative apparatus is to be constructed in land
not owned or controlled by the undertaker as a consequence of the removal or
diversion of apparatus then NGED shall use its reasonable endeavours to obtain
alternative rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed.

70.6

If alternative apparatus is to be constructed in land not owned or controlled
by the undertaker and NGED is unable to obtain such alternative rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (5) , the undertaker and NGED shall consider
whether there is an alternative engineering solution that can achieve the
diversion without the need for the use of compulsory powers. Should such an
alternative engineering solution not be practicable and deliverable in a
reasonable timescale and at a reasonable cost (which shall be determined by
the undertaker acting reasonably), NGED shall on the transfer of the benefit
of the necessary provisions of this Order to NGED use the powers of compulsory
acquisition set out in this Order or the Electricity Act 1989 to obtain the
necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus
is to be constructed in accordance with a timetable agreed between NGED and
the undertaker.

70.7

Any alternative apparatus required pursuant to sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)
must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be
agreed between NGED and the undertaker or in default of agreement settled in
accordance with paragraph  7 5 (expert determination).

70.8

NGED must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed or settled pursuant to paragraph  7 5 (expert determination), and
after the acquisition by or grant to NGED of any such facilities and
alternative rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (6) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required to be
removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

70.9

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (8) , if the undertaker gives notice
in writing to NGED that it desires itself to execute any work, or part of any
work in connection with the construction or removal of apparatus in any land
of the undertaker, that work, instead of being executed by NGED, must be
executed by the undertaker—

70.9.a

in accordance with plans and specifications and in such line or situation
agreed between the undertaker and NGED, or, in default of agreement,
determined in accordance with paragraph  7 5 (expert determination); and

70.9.b

without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the
reasonable satisfaction of NGED.

70.10

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (9)  authorises the undertaker to execute the
placing, installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection
of any apparatus or alternative apparatus, or execute any filling around the
apparatus or alternative apparatus (where the apparatus or alternative
apparatus is laid in a trench) within 600 millimetres of the point of
connection or disconnection.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

71

71.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to NGED facilities and alternative rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
alternative rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be
agreed between the undertaker and NGED or in default of agreement settled in
accordance with paragraph  7 5 (expert determination).

71.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus to
be constructed in the land of the undertaker, the expert must—

71.2.a

give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus which
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker;

71.2.b

have regard to the terms and conditions, if any, applicable to the apparatus
for which the alternative apparatus is to be substituted;

71.2.c

have regard to NGED’s ability to fulfil its service obligations and comply
with its licence conditions; and

71.2.d

have regard to the standard form rights NGED ordinarily secures for the type
of alternative apparatus to be constructed in the circumstances similar to the
authorised development.

71.3

If the facilities and alternative rights to be afforded by the undertaker in
respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to
which those facilities and alternative rights are to be granted, are in the
opinion of the expert less favourable on the whole to NGED than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the
terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
expert must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to NGED as appears to the expert to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

72

72.1

Not less than 60 days before the undertaker intends to start the execution of
any specified work where the removal of the apparatus in question has not been
required under paragraph 70 (removal of apparatus), the undertaker must submit
to NGED a plan of the specified works to be executed. Any submission must note
the time limits imposed on NGED under sub-paragraph  (3) .

72.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  the undertaker must not commence any specified
works to which sub-paragraph  (1)  applies until NGED has identified any
reasonable requirements it has for the alteration or protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it.

72.3

If by the expiry of 60 days beginning with the date on which a plan under sub-
paragraph  (1)  is submitted NGED has not advised the undertaker in writing of
any reasonable requirements for the alteration or protection of the apparatus,
or for securing access to it, it shall be deemed not to have any such
requirements and the undertaker shall be at liberty to proceed with the works.

72.4

The works referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)  must be executed only in
accordance with the plan submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance
with any reasonable requirements as may be notified in writing in accordance
with sub-paragraph  (2)  by NGED and NGED shall be entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of those works.

72.5

At all times when carrying out the authorised development the undertaker shall
comply with NGED’s Avoidance of Danger from Electricity Overhead Lines and
Underground Cables (2014), the Energy Network Association’s A Guide to the
Safe Use of Mechanical Plant in the Vicinity of Electricity Overhead Lines
(undated), the Health and Safety Executive’s GS6 Avoiding Danger from Overhead
Power Lines and the Health and Safety Executive’s HSG47 Avoiding Danger from
Underground Services (Third Addition) (2014) as the same may be replaced from
time to time.

72.6

If NGED, in accordance with sub–paragraph  (2)  and in consequence of the
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal or diversion
of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, this Part of this Schedule applies as if the removal or diversion
of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  70(2)
(removal of apparatus).

72.7

Nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 60 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

72.8

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub–paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to NGED notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with any reasonable requirements
stipulated by NGED under sub-paragraph  (2)  and with sub–paragraphs  (4)  and
(5)  in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances. Nothing in
this sub-paragraph prevents NGED from exercising its rights under sub-
paragraph  (6) .

###### Expenses and costs

73

73.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to NGED the proper and reasonable expenses reasonably incurred by NGED in, or
in connection with, the inspection, removal, diversion, alteration or
protection of any apparatus, the construction of any alternative apparatus and
the acquisition or grant of alternative rights for the alternative apparatus,
arising as a result of the powers conferred upon the undertaker pursuant to
this Order.

73.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1) , that
value being calculated after removal.

73.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule NGED
requires that alternative apparatus of better type, of greater capacity, of
greater dimensions or at a greater depth is necessary in substitution for
existing apparatus which for NGED’s network requirements is over and above
what is necessary as a consequence of and for the purpose of the authorised
development, NGED shall reduce the cost of such additional requirements from
the amount payable by the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph  (1) .

73.4

For the purposes of sub–paragraph  (3) —

73.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

73.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

73.5

Any amount which, apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to NGED in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on NGED any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, is
to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

74

74.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any specified work or any subsidence resulting from any of
those works any damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus
(other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view
of its intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of NGED
the undertaker is to—

74.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by NGED in making good such damage
or restoring the supply; and

74.1.b

reimburse NGED for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs
reasonably and properly incurred by NGED, by reason or in consequence of any
such damage or interruption.

74.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of NGED, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

74.3

NGED must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand
and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the
undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, is to have the sole conduct of
any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the
claim or demand.

74.4

NGED’s liability to the undertaker for negligence or breach of contract, in
respect of each diversion, shall be limited to the value of that diversion and
NGED shall not otherwise be liable to the undertaker for any losses or costs
incurred by the undertaker resulting from delays to the authorised development
as a result of its failure to undertake works to deliver any alternative
apparatus.

###### Expert determination

75

75.1

Article 49 (arbitration) applies to any difference as to the legal
interpretation of this Part of this Schedule and as provided for in
sub–paragraph  (7) .

75.2

Save as provided for in sub–paragraph  (1)  or sub–paragraph  (7)  any
difference under this Part of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by
a single independent and suitable person who holds appropriate professional
qualifications and is a member of a professional body relevant to the matter
in dispute acting as an expert, such person to be agreed by the differing
parties or, in the absence of agreement, identified by the President of the
Institution of Civil Engineers or the President of the Institution of RICS or
the President of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (as relevant
and agreed between NGED and the undertaker, both acting reasonably and without
delay).

75.3

All parties involved in settling any difference must use best endeavours to do
so within 14 days from the date of a dispute first being notified in writing
by one party to the other and in the absence of the difference being settled
within that period the expert must be appointed within 21 days of the
notification of the dispute.

75.4

The costs and fees of the expert and the costs of NGED and the undertaker are
payable by the parties in such proportions as the expert may determine. In the
absence of such determination the costs and fees of the expert are payable
equally by the parties who shall each bear their own costs.

75.5

The expert must—

75.5.a

invite the parties to make submission to the expert in writing and copied to
the other party to be received by the expert within 14 days of the expert’s
appointment;

75.5.b

permit a party to comment on the submissions made by the other party within 7
days of receipt of the submissions;

75.5.c

issue a decision within 14 days of receipt of the submissions under sub-
paragraph  (b) ; and

75.5.d

give reasons for the decision.

75.6

The expert must consider where relevant—

75.6.a

the development outcome sought by the undertaker;

75.6.b

the ability of the undertaker to achieve its outcome in a timely and cost-
effective manner;

75.6.c

the nature of the power sought to be exercised by the undertaker;

75.6.d

the effectiveness, cost and reasonableness of proposals for mitigation arising
from any party;

75.6.e

NGED’s service obligations and licence conditions; and

75.6.f

any other important and relevant consideration.

75.7

Any determination by the expert is final and binding, except in the case of
manifest error in which case the difference that has been subject to expert
determination may be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 49
(arbitration).

  DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Articles 2 and 47

##### ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT

          (1)       Document         (2)       Document Reference         (3)
Revision       Environmental Statement - Chapter 1: Introduction
TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental Statement - Chapter 2: The Proposed Scheme
TR010039/APP/6.1 1 Environmental Statement - Chapter 3: Consideration of
Alternatives TR010039/APP/6.1 1 Environmental Statement - Chapter 4:
Environmental Assessment Methodology TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 5: Air Quality TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental Statement
- Chapter 6: Cultural Heritage TR010039/APP/6.1 1 Environmental Statement -
Chapter 7: Landscape and Visual Effects TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 8: Biodiversity TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental Statement
- Chapter 9: Geology and Soils TR010039/APP/6.1 2 Environmental Statement -
Chapter 10: Materials Assets and Waste TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 11: Noise and Vibration TR010039/APP/6.1 1 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 12: Population and Human Health TR010039/APP/6.1 3
Environmental Statement - Chapter 13: Road Drainage and Water Environment
TR010039/APP/6.1 2 Environmental Statement - Chapter 14: Climate
TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental Statement - Chapter 15: Cumulative Effects
Assessment TR010039/APP/6.1 0 Environmental Statement Figure 1.1
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figures 2.1 to 2.3 TR010039/APP/6.2
0 Environmental Statement Figure 5.1 to 5.3 TR010039/APP/6.2 1 Environmental
Statement Figure 5.4 to 5.8 TR010039/APP/6.2 1 Environmental Statement Figure
6.1 to 6.4 TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figure 7.1 to 7.5
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.1a to 7.6.1d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.2a to 7.6.2d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.3a to 7.6.3d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.4a to 7.6.4d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.5a to 7.6.5d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.6a to 7.6.6d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.7a to 7.6.7d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.8a to 7.6.10b
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.11a to 7.6.12d
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.13a to 7.6.14b
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.15a to 7.6.16b
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 6.2 Environmental Statement Figures 7.6.17a to 7.6.18b
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figure 8.1 to 8.4 TR010039/APP/6.2
0 Environmental Statement Figure 9.1 to 9.2 TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental
Statement Figure 11.1 to 11.8 TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement
Figure 11.9 to 11.16 TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figure 11.17
to 11.23 TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figure 11.24 to 11.30
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figure 12.1 to 12.4
TR010039/APP/6.2 2 Environmental Statement Figure 13.1 to 13.7
TR010039/APP/6.2 0 Environmental Statement Figure 15.1 TR010039/APP/6.2 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 4.1: Scoping opinion responses
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 5.1: Air quality
modelling process TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 5.2:
Air quality verification and model adjustment TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 5.3: Receptor results TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 6.1: Cultural heritage baseline TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.2: Geophysical survey TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.3: Geophysical and metal detector survey
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.4: Archaeological
observation report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.5:
Geophysical survey of the scheduled monument TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 6.6: Archaeological trial trenching survey report
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.7: Former Wansford
Road Station Building advice report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement
- Appendix 7.1: Planning policy context TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 7.2: ZTV and verified photomontage methodology
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.3: Landscape character
areas TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.4: Visual
receptors TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.5:
Representative viewpoints TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 7.6: Arboricultural impact assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.7: Lighting assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.1: Botanical and hedgerow update survey
report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.2: Fungi survey
report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.3: Terrestrial
invertebrate survey report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 8.4: Aquatic invertebrate survey report (Sutton Heath)
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.5: Aquatic
invertebrate survey report (Nene Valley) TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 8.6: Great crested newt survey report TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.7: Reptile survey report TR010039/APP/6.3
0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.8: Breeding bird survey report
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.9: Barn owl survey
report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.10: Wintering
bird survey report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.11:
Bat hibernation report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix
8.12: Bat emergence / re-entry survey report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 8.13: Bat activity survey report TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.14: Otter and water vole survey report
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.15: Confidential
badger survey report TR010039/APP/6.3 1 Environmental Statement - Appendix
8.16: DMRB Biodiversity evaluation assessment methodology TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.17: Legislation and policy framework
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 9.1: Hierarchy of
screening criteria for generic quantitative risk assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 9.2: Agricultural land classification
report TR010039/APP/6.3 1 Environmental Statement - Appendix 9.3: Preliminary
sources study report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix
9.4: Construction workers risk assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 10.1: Legislation and policy framework TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 10.2: Outline site waste management plan
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 10.3: Mineral impact
assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 11.1:
Glossary of terms TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 11.2:
Legislation and policy framework TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 11.3: Baseline noise survey TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 11.4: Model validation TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 11.5: Construction noise assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 13.1: Flood risk assessment
TR010039/APP/6.3 1 Environmental Statement - Appendix 13.2: Drainage strategy
TR010039/APP/6.3 2 Environmental Statement - Appendix 13.3: Surface water
quality assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 13.4:
Groundwater assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix
13.5: Geomorphological assessment TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 14.1: Embodied carbon report TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 15.1: Cumulative effects stage 2 screening
TR010039/APP/6.3 0 Environmental Statement - Addendum One TR010039/EXAM/9.35 0
Environmental Statement - Addendum Two TR010039/EXAM/9.36 0

##### OTHER DOCUMENTS

          (1)       Document         (2)       Document Reference         (3)
Revision       Book of reference (parts 1-5) and Schedules TR010039/APP/4.3 3
Classification of roads plans TR010039/APP/2.11 0 Crown land plans
TR010039/APP/2.8 2 Detrunking Plans TR010039/APP/2.9 0 Engineering drawings
and sections TR010039/APP/2.5 1 Environmental management plan TR010039/APP/7.5
3 Environmental masterplan TR010039/APP/6.8 3 General arrangement plans
TR010039/APP/2.6 2 Hedgerow plans TR010039/APP/2.12 0 Land plans
TR010039/APP/2.2 4 Outline traffic management plan TR010039/APP/7.6 1 Rights
of way and access plans TR010039/APP/2.4 3 Traffic regulation plans
TR010039/APP/2.10 0 Works plans TR010039/APP/2.3 3

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises National Highways Limited to improve the A47 between
Wansford and Sutton in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.

  The Order permits National Highways Limited to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

  The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

  A copy of the plans, engineering drawings and sections, book of reference
and environmental statement mentioned in this Order and certified in
accordance with article  47  (certification of documents, public register,
etc.) may be inspected free of charge during working hours at National
Highways, Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 4LZ.

