Title: The Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-04-10
Description: These Regulations make provision under section 3(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (c. 20) (“the 2022 Act”) to implement provisions relating to the recognition of professional qualifications contained in the free trade agreement between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland done at London on 8thJuly 2021 (“the EEA EFTA free trade agreement”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1286

## The Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023

    Professional Qualifications

  Made   29th November 2023

  Coming into force   1st December 2023

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
3(1) and (2), 5(2), 6(1) and 13(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022
(“ the 2022 Act ”), makes the following Regulations.       In accordance with
section 14 of the 2022 Act, the Secretary of State is satisfied that these
Regulations do not remove the ability of any regulator to prevent individuals
who are unfit to practise the profession from doing so, and that these
Regulations will not have a material adverse effect on any regulated
profession in terms of the knowledge, skills or experience of the individuals
practising it.       In accordance with section 15 of the 2022 Act, the
Secretary of State has consulted such regulators of regulated professions as
the Secretary of State considers are likely to be affected by these
Regulations or it is otherwise appropriate to consult.       In accordance
with section 17 of the 2022 Act, the Secretary of State has consulted the
devolved authorities and published a report  on the consultation.           In
accordance with section 18(1), (6)(a) and (8) of the 2022 Act, a draft of this
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House
of Parliament.

### General provisions

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 1st December 2023.

#### Extent and application

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph (2)  and (3) , these Regulations extend to England and
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

2.2

Any amendment, repeal or revocation made by these Regulations has the same
extent and application as the provision amended, repealed or revoked.

2.3

Paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 7 of Schedule 3 do not apply in relation to Wales.

#### Interpretation

3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of supervised practice, subject to an
assessment and which may be accompanied by further training, of a regulated
profession  under the responsibility of a qualified member of that profession;
“ applicant ” means a specified state professional who— wishes to access and
pursue a regulated profession for which the possession of professional
qualifications is required; possesses professional qualifications for the same
profession in a specified state; and makes an application; “ application ”
means an application to a regulator  of a regulated profession, by an
applicant, for recognition of their professional qualifications; “ aptitude
test ” means a test limited to the professional knowledge of a specified state
professional, made by the regulator with the aim of assessing the ability of
the professional to pursue a regulated profession; “ EEA EFTA free trade
agreement ” means the free trade agreement between Iceland, the Principality
of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland done at London on 8th July 2021 ; “ medical
regulator ” means one of the following— the General Chiropractic Council; the
General Dental Council; the General Medical Council; the General Optical
Council; the General Osteopathic Council; the General Pharmaceutical Council;
the Health and Care Professions Council; the Nursing and Midwifery Council; “
professional activity ” means an activity which forms part of a regulated
profession; “ professional experience ” means the lawful and effective
practice of the relevant profession; “ professional qualifications ” includes
qualifications  or professional experience; “ specified state ” means a state
specified in Schedule 1; “ specified state professional ” means a natural
person who has obtained professional qualifications in a specified state;

3.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, “ regulator ” does not include the
regulators for the regulated professions specified in Schedule 2  or a “ Welsh
regulator ” as defined by the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Wales) (Amendment
etc.) Regulations 2023 .

#### Amendments to legislation for the purpose of, and in connection with, the EEA EFTA free trade agreement

4

Schedule 3 contains amendments to legislation for the purpose of, and in
connection with, implementing Chapter 12 of the EEA EFTA free trade agreement
(recognition of professional qualifications).

#### Amendments to legislation consequent upon the commencement of section 5(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 and revoking other retained EU recognition law

5

Schedule 4 contains amendments to legislation—

5.a

consequent upon the commencement of section 5(1) of the 2022 Act (revocation
of general EU system of recognition of overseas qualifications); and

5.b

revoking other retained EU recognition law .

### Recognition of professional qualifications obtained in a specified state

#### Application of Part 2

6

6.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this Part applies to a regulator that receives an
application.

6.2

This Part does not apply to medical regulators  except in relation to an
application—

6.2.a

for registration in the General Practitioner Register kept under section 34C
of the Medical Act 1983  or in the Specialist Register kept under section 34D
of that Act; or

6.2.b

to use a title prescribed under section 26(3) of the Dentists Act 1984 .

#### Recognition of professional qualifications

7

7.1

Subject to regulation 8, where a regulator receives an application, the
regulator must recognise the applicant’s professional qualifications.

7.2

A regulator that recognises an applicant’s professional qualifications under
this regulation must—

7.2.a

enable that person to access and pursue the regulated profession;

7.2.b

for the purpose of access to and pursuit of the regulated profession, treat
the applicant as if they had obtained their professional qualifications in the
United Kingdom or that part of the United Kingdom for which the profession is
regulated.

#### Refusal to recognise professional qualifications

8

8.1

A regulator may refuse to recognise an applicant’s professional qualifications
if—

8.1.a

those professional qualifications are not comparable to the professional
qualifications required to access and pursue the same profession in the United
Kingdom or that part of the United Kingdom for which the profession is
regulated;

8.1.b

one or more of Conditions 1, 2, 3 or 4 is met; or

8.1.c

the applicant fails to meet any requirement imposed in accordance with
regulation 11 (knowledge of language).

8.2

Condition 1 is met where—

8.2.a

there exists a substantial difference between the applicant’s professional
qualifications and the essential knowledge or skills required to practise the
regulated profession; and

8.2.b

the applicant fails to pass, or refuses to take, an aptitude test or fails, or
refuses to complete, an adaptation period or to undertake both imposed in
accordance with regulation 9 (aptitude tests and adaptation periods).

8.3

Condition 2 is met where—

8.3.a

the regulated profession comprises one or more professional activities that
cover substantially different matters from those covered by the applicant’s
professional qualifications; and

8.3.b

the applicant fails to pass, or refuses to take, an aptitude test or fails, or
refuses to complete, an adaptation period or to undertake both imposed in
accordance with regulation 9 (aptitude tests and adaptation periods).

8.4

Condition 3 is met where requiring the applicant to take an aptitude test, to
complete an adaptation period or to undertake both in accordance with
regulation 9 (aptitude tests and adaptation periods) would amount to requiring
the applicant to acquire the professional qualifications required to practise
the regulated profession.

8.5

Condition 4 is met where access to and pursuit of a regulated profession by a
person whose professional qualifications were obtained in the United Kingdom
is subject to conditions other than the possession of specific professional
qualifications and the applicant fails to meet those conditions.

#### Aptitude tests and adaptation periods

9

9.1

A regulator may require an applicant to take an aptitude test, standardised or
otherwise, or to complete an adaptation period or to undertake both where—

9.1.a

there exists a substantial difference between the applicant’s professional
qualifications and the essential knowledge or skills required to practise the
regulated profession; or

9.1.b

the regulated profession comprises one or more professional activities that
cover substantially different matters from those covered by the applicant’s
professional qualifications.

9.2

A regulator must consider whether any requirement to take an aptitude test or
to complete an adaptation period or to undertake both is proportionate to the
difference sought to be addressed.

9.3

If requested to do so by an applicant, a regulator must, to the extent
possible, provide its reasons in writing for requiring the applicant to take
an aptitude test or to complete an adaptation period or to undertake both.

9.4

Where a regulator requires applicants to undertake an aptitude test, the
regulator must schedule tests with reasonable frequency and at least once a
year.

#### Procedure to be followed on application for recognition

10

10.1

A regulator must—

10.1.a

within one month of receiving an application, acknowledge receipt in writing
to the applicant and inform the applicant if any document is missing from the
application;

10.1.b

give the applicant adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures
of the application process;

10.1.c

deal promptly with the application and notify the applicant of its decision in
writing before the end of the period of four months beginning with the day
after the day on which the complete application was submitted.

10.2

A regulator may require an applicant to provide, in their application,
evidence of their professional qualifications.

10.3

The evidence a regulator may require under paragraph (2) must be no more than
is necessary to demonstrate that the applicant holds professional
qualifications that are comparable to the professional qualifications required
to access and pursue the same profession in the United Kingdom or that part of
the United Kingdom for which the profession is regulated.

10.4

Where access to, and pursuit of, a regulated profession by a person whose
professional qualifications were obtained in the United Kingdom is subject to
conditions other than the possession of specific professional qualifications,
a regulator may require the applicant to provide, in their application,
evidence to demonstrate that they satisfy those conditions.

10.5

The evidence a regulator may require under paragraph (4) must be no more than
is necessary to demonstrate that the applicant satisfies those conditions.

10.6

Without prejudice to any power of a regulator to make provision about the
authentication of copies of documents, a regulator must accept copies of
documents in place of originals unless it requires original documents to
protect the integrity of the recognition process.

#### Knowledge of language

11

11.1

A regulator may require that an applicant demonstrates they possess the
language skills necessary for practice of a regulated profession.

11.2

If a regulator requires an applicant to undertake a language test, the test
must be proportionate to the activity to be pursued.

#### Appeals

12

A regulator must provide a right of appeal for an applicant against its—

12.a

decision to refuse to recognise an applicant’s professional qualifications;
and

12.b

failure to notify the applicant of its decision in respect of an application
within the time period referred to in regulation 10(1)(c).

#### Fees

13

Any fee charged by a regulator in connection with an application must be—

13.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of administering the application;

13.b

transparent, and published in advance; and

13.c

payable by electronic means through the regulator’s website.

### Provision of information and dealing with enquiries

#### Application of Part 3

14

This Part does not apply to medical regulators except in relation to an
application—

14.a

for registration in the General Practitioner Register kept under section 34C
of the Medical Act 1983 or in the Specialist Register kept under section 34D
of that Act; or

14.b

to use a title prescribed under section 26(3) of the Dentists Act 1984.

#### Provision of information

15

A regulator must, in relation to a regulated profession, make information
about the following matters available to specified state professionals—

15.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and any other relevant matters;

15.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising a
regulated profession;

15.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

15.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, revocation of registration;

15.e

the documentation required of professionals and the form in which it should be
presented; and

15.f

the acceptance of documents and certificates issued in relation to
professional qualifications and other conditions that apply to the practice of
a regulated profession.

#### Enquiries relating to professional qualifications and other conditions of practice

16

A regulator must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about—

16.a

the professional qualifications required to practise the regulated profession;
and

16.b

the conditions that apply to the practice of the regulated profession.

      Kevin Hollinrake   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department
for Business and Trade     29th November 2023

The specified states

Regulation 3(1)

1

Iceland.

2

The Principality of Liechtenstein.

3

The Kingdom of Norway.

The regulated professions referred to in regulation 3(2)

Regulation 3(2)

1

Aerobatic Pilot.

2

Aeromedical Examiner.

3

Air Ground Communications Service Operator.

4

Air Traffic Controller.

5

Air Traffic Controller Assessor.

6

Air Traffic Controller Instructor.

7

Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel.

8

Aircraft Cabin Crew.

9

Certifying Staff (Continuing Airworthiness of Aircraft).

10

Commercial Balloon Pilot.

11

Commercial Banner Towing Pilot.

12

Commercial Pilot – Aeroplane.

13

Commercial Pilot – Airship.

14

Commercial Pilot – Helicopter.

15

Commercial Sailplane Pilot.

16

Flight Examiner.

17

Flight Information Service Officer.

18

Flight Instructor.

19

Flight Test Pilot.

20

Rescue and Firefighting Personnel.

21

Able Seafarer Deck Certificate – 11/5.

22

Able Seafarer Engine – STCW 111/5.

23

Deck Officer, Management Level – STCW 11/2.

24

Deck Officer, Operational Level – STCW 11/1.

25

Electro-technical Officer (ETO) – STCW lll/6.

26

Electro-tech Rating – STCW III/7.

27

Engineer Officer, Management Level, lll/2.

28

Engineer Officer, Operational Level – STCW lll/1.

29

Engine Room Rating – STCW III/4.

30

Rating Deck – STCW II/4.

31

Dangerous Goods Driver.

32

Dangerous Goods Safety Adviser.

Amendments for the purpose of, and in connection with, implementing the EEA
EFTA free trade agreement

Regulation 4

##### Amendments in relation to animal welfare professions

###### Amendments to Council Regulation 

1

1.1

Council Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005  of 22 December 2004 on the protection of
animals during transport and related operations  is amended as follows.

1.2

In Annex 4 (training), after paragraph 3, insert—

1.2.4

Where a road driver or attendant holds a qualification which, by virtue of
Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of
International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023, is
recognised by the competent authority, the road driver or attendant (as the
case may be) is to be treated as having met the requirements of paragraph 1.

.

###### Amendments to Council Regulation 

2

2.1

Council Regulation  (EC) No 1099/2009  of 24 September 2009 on the protection
of animals at the time of killing  is amended as follows.

2.2

In Article 21, in paragraph 1, after point (c), insert—

2.2.d

delivering certificates of competence to persons whose qualifications have
been recognised for those purposes under Part 2 of the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

.

###### Amendments to the Welfare of Animals at the Time of Killing (England) Regulations 2015

3

3.1

The Welfare of Animals at the Time of Killing (England) Regulations 2015  are
amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 3(1) (interpretation)—

3.2.a

in the definition of “evidence of training and examination”, after paragraph
(ab), insert—

3.2.a.ac

a qualification which has been recognised under Part 2 of the Professional
Qualifications Regulations 2023 in relation to an operation specified in
regulation 6,

;

3.2.b

after the definition of “local authority”, insert—

“ the Professional Qualifications Regulations 2023 ” means the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

3.3

In regulation 22 (appeals)—

3.3.a

after paragraph (1), insert—

3.3.a.1A

A person who has applied for recognition of a qualification under Part 2 of
the Professional Qualifications Regulations 2023 in relation to an operation
specified in regulation 6 may appeal against a decision of the competent
authority not to recognise the person’s qualification for those purposes.

;

3.3.b

after paragraph (4), insert—

3.3.b.5

In paragraph (1A), the reference to a decision of the competent authority not
to recognise a person’s qualification under Part 2 of the Professional
Qualifications Regulations 2023 is to be treated as including any failure by
the competent authority to notify the applicant of its decision concerning the
person’s application within the period of four months beginning with the day
after the day on which the person submitted a complete application to the
competent authority under Part 2 of the Professional Qualifications
Regulations 2023.

.

##### Amendments in relation to education professions

###### Amendments to the Education (School Teachers’ Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2003

4

4.1

The Education (School Teachers’ Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2003
are amended as follows.

4.2

In regulation 5 (qualified teacher status), for “13E” substitute  “13F” .

4.3

In Part 1 of Schedule 2 (qualified teacher status requirements) after
paragraph 13E, insert—

4.3.13F

The person is, as respects the profession of school teacher, entitled to
practise pursuant to a decision made under Part 2 of the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

.

###### Amendments to the Education (Induction Arrangements for School Teachers) (England) Regulations 2012

5

5.1

The Education (Induction Arrangements for School Teachers) (England)
Regulations 2012  are amended as follows.

5.2

In paragraph 25(1)(a)(ii) of Schedule 1 (employment as a qualified teacher in
a relevant school without satisfactory completion of an induction period)
after “paragraph 13E”, insert  “or 13F” .

##### Amendments in relation to F-gas handler professions

###### Amendments to 

6

6.1

Regulation (EU) No  517/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation  (EC)
No 842/2006  is amended as follows.

6.2

In Article 10 (training and certification)—

6.2.a

in paragraph 10, after “as amended from time to time,” insert  “or
certificates and training attestations issued by a specified state that are
equivalent to those issued in any part of the United Kingdom,” ;

6.2.b

after paragraph 15, insert—

6.2.b.16

For the purposes of this Article, a ‘specified state’ means one of the states
specified in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023.

.

###### Amendments to the Ozone-Depleting Substances Regulations 2015

7

7.1

The Ozone-Depleting Substances Regulations 2015 are amended as follows.

7.2

Regulation 4 (meaning of “ competent ”) is renumbered as paragraph (1) of that
regulation.

7.3

In regulation 4(1) as renumbered—

7.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “column 3 of that Table”, insert  “, or has obtained
the equivalent of those qualifications in a specified state” ;

7.3.b

for paragraph (c), substitute—

7.3.b.c

a person is competent to carry out work with methyl bromide if that person
has—

7.3.b.c.i

obtained the British Pest Control Association Certificate of Proficiency for
Fumigation Operators  and successfully completed the British Pest Control
Association module referred to in the list in Schedule 3 which relates to the
work in question; or

7.3.b.c.ii

obtained an equivalent certificate, and successfully completed an equivalent
module, in a specified state.

.

7.4

After regulation 4(1) as renumbered, insert—

7.4.2

For the purposes of this regulation, a “ specified state ” means one of the
states specified in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023.

.

##### Amendments in relation to food examiners

###### Amendments to the Food Safety (Sampling and Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2013

8

8.1

The Food Safety (Sampling and Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2013  are
amended as follows.

8.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the appropriate place, insert—

“ specified state ” means one of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

8.3

In Schedule 2 (qualifications of food examiners)—

8.3.a

in paragraph 6 of Part 1, for “in another Member State”, substitute  “in a
Member State of the European Union or in a specified state” ; and

8.3.b

in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Part 2, after “a Member State of the European Union”,
insert  “or of a specified state” .

###### Amendments to the Food Safety (Sampling and Qualifications) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2013

9

9.1

The Food Safety (Sampling and Qualifications) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2013  are amended as follows.

9.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the appropriate place, insert—

“ specified state ” means one of the states listed in Schedule 1 to the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

9.3

In Schedule 2 (qualifications of food examiners)—

9.3.a

in paragraph 6 of Part 1, for “in another Member State” substitute  “in a
Member State of the European Union or in a specified state” ; and

9.3.b

in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Part 2, for “another Member State” substitute  “a
Member State of the European Union or of a specified state” .

##### Amendments in relation to healthcare professions

###### Amendments to the Medical Act 1983

10

The Medical Act 1983  is amended as follows.

11

In section 21B (full registration of persons with an overseas qualification) —

11.a

in subsection (1)—

11.a.i

for “subsection (1A)”, substitute  “subsections (1A) and (1AA)” ;

11.a.ii

for paragraph (a), substitute—

11.a.ii.a

that the person—

11.a.ii.a.i

holds, or has passed all the qualifying examinations necessary for obtaining,
an acceptable overseas qualification, or

11.a.ii.a.ii

holds a specified state qualification that is not an acceptable overseas
qualification and has met the requirement specified in relation to the person
under section 21BA;

;

11.a.iii

for paragraph (d), substitute—

11.a.iii.d

that—

11.a.iii.d.i

in the case of a person who is not a specified state professional, the person
has the necessary knowledge of English; or

11.a.iii.d.ii

in the case of a person who is a specified state professional, the person has
satisfied such requirement as to language skills as is imposed on the person
under section 21BA(7);

;

11.b

after subsection (1A), insert—

11.b.1AA

Subsection (1)(b) does not apply in the case of a person who makes an
application under this section in reliance on the holding of a specified state
qualification and on having met the requirement specified in relation to the
person under section 21BA.

;

11.c

after subsection (4), insert—

11.c.5

The General Council may designate a specified state qualification for the
purposes of subsection (3)(a) only where one or more of Conditions 1 to 3 are
met.

11.c.6

The General Council may designate that a specified state qualification does
not meet the standard in subsection (3)(b)(ii) or (c)(ii) only where one or
more of Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

11.c.7

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
knowledge and skill evidenced by the specified state qualification and the
prescribed knowledge and skill.

11.c.8

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a primary UK
qualification relates include one or more professional activities that cover
substantially different matters from those covered by the specified state
qualification.

11.c.9

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds the specified state
qualification to pass an aptitude test or successfully to complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a primary United Kingdom qualification.

.

12

After section 21B, insert—

########## Further provision relating to the registration of specified state professionals

12.21BA

12.21BA.1

This section applies where a specified state professional applies to be
registered under section 21B and the person’s specified state qualification is
not an acceptable overseas qualification.

12.21BA.2

This section does not apply if the specified state qualification is not an
acceptable overseas qualification because Condition 3 is met in relation to it
(see section 21B(9)).

12.21BA.3

Where this section applies, the General Council must specify what aptitude
test or adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be
passed or successfully completed by the person.

12.21BA.4

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this section, or an
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this section,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

12.21BA.5

The General Council must give a person their reasons for specifying an
aptitude test or an adaptation period, or both, in relation to the person
under this section, if the person makes a written request for them.

12.21BA.6

If the General Council specify aptitude tests in relation to persons under
this section, the Council must ensure that such tests are scheduled with
reasonable frequency and at least once a year.

12.21BA.7

The General Council may require a specified state professional who wishes to
be registered under section 21B to demonstrate that the person possesses the
language skills necessary to the practice of a fully registered medical
practitioner.

12.21BA.8

A language test required by the General Council under subsection (7) must be
proportionate to the level of language skills referred to in that subsection.

.

13

After section 29G (guidance) , insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

13.29GA

13.29GA.1

The General Council must make information about the following matters
available to specified state professionals—

13.29GA.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

13.29GA.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

13.29GA.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

13.29GA.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, erasure from the register;

13.29GA.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

13.29GA.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registered
medical practitioners that are acceptable to the General Council.

13.29GA.2

The General Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registered
medical practitioners.

.

14

In section 32 (registration fees) , after subsection (1), insert—

14.1A

Any fee prescribed by the General Council under subsection (1) in connection
with the making of an entry in the register relating to a specified state
professional must be—

14.1A.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such a person’s
application;

14.1A.b

transparent and made public in advance; and

14.1A.c

payable by electronic means through the General Council’s website.

.

15

In section 55 (interpretation) , in subsection (1), at the appropriate places,
insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a fully registered medical practitioner;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment, with the aim of determining whether a
specified state professional has the knowledge, skills and experience that the
General Council consider to be required for practising as a fully registered
medical practitioner;

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a medical qualification granted in one
of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

16

In Schedule 3 (registration: supplementary provisions)—

16.a

in paragraph 3 (proof of qualifications) , at the end, insert—

16.a.4

The evidence of professional qualifications or other particulars required of a
specified state professional in order to be registered under section 21B must
be no more than is necessary to satisfy the Registrar as to the matters in
section 21B(1)(a) to (d) in relation to the specified state professional.

16.a.5

Where documents fall to be provided in connection with the registration of a
specified state professional under section 21B, the Registrar must accept
certified copies of documents in place of original documents, unless the
Registrar requires original documents to protect the integrity of the
application process.

16.a.6

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (5), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

;

16.b

in paragraph 4B  (acknowledgment of applications), after “this Act” insert
“or where a specified state professional makes an application for registration
under section 21B of this Act” ;

16.c

after paragraph 4B insert—

############ Duty to deal promptly with registration applications by specified state professionals

16.c.4C

On an application for the registration of a specified state professional under
section 21B of this Act, the appropriate registrar must deal promptly with the
person’s application.

;

16.d

after paragraph 4C (inserted by sub-paragraph (c) above) insert—

############ Time allowed for specified state professionals in relation to application process

16.d.4D

Where a specified state professional makes an application for registration
under section 21B of this Act, the appropriate registrar must give that person
adequate time to meet the requirements and complete the procedures of the
application process.

;

16.e

in paragraph 5 (issue of certificates of registration) , in sub-paragraph
(1A)(a), after “this Act” insert  “or an application by a specified state
professional under section 21B of this Act,” .

17

In Schedule 3A (registration and training appeals)—

17.a

in paragraph 3 , after sub-paragraph (2), insert—

17.a.2A

Failure to notify an applicant of a decision in respect of an application for
registration under section 21B of this Act (full registration of persons with
an overseas qualification) within the requisite period shall, where a
specified state professional makes the application, be treated as a decision
from which the applicant may appeal under paragraph 4 below.

;

17.b

in paragraph 4(4), after “3(2)” insert  “, (2A)” .

###### Amendments to the Dentists Act 1984

18

The Dentists Act 1984  is amended as follows.

19

In section 15 (qualification for registration in the dentists register) —

19.a

in subsection (1), omit the “and” following paragraph (a);

19.b

in subsection (1)(c), for “overseas diplomas)).” substitute  “overseas
diplomas)); and” ;

19.c

after subsection (1)(c), insert—

19.c.d

any person who—

19.c.d.i

holds a specified state qualification in dentistry that is not a relevant
European diploma, and

19.c.d.ii

has met the requirement specified in relation to that person under section
15ZA.

;

19.d

after subsection (1A), insert—

19.d.1B

Subsection (1)(c)(ii) does not apply to a person who is entitled to be
registered under subsection (1)(d).

;

19.e

in subsection (2ZA), in paragraph (b)(ii), omit “(within the meaning given by
section 12A(2))”;

19.f

before subsection (3), insert—

19.f.2B

The Council may determine that a specified state qualification in dentistry
does not meet the standard in subsection (2ZA)(b)(ii) only where one or more
of Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

19.f.2C

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
level of knowledge and skill demonstrated by the specified state qualification
and the level of knowledge and skill demonstrated by a UK diploma in
dentistry.

19.f.2D

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a UK diploma in
dentistry relates include one or more professional activities that cover
substantially different matters from those covered by the specified state
qualification.

19.f.2E

Condition 3 is met where requiring an applicant to take an aptitude test or to
complete an adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the
applicant to acquire a UK diploma in dentistry.

;

19.g

at the end, insert—

19.g.8

In this section—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a registered dentist; “ aptitude test ” means an assessment with the aim of
determining whether a person has the requisite knowledge and skill; “ UK
diploma in dentistry ” has the meaning given by section 12A(2).

.

20

After section 15, insert—

########## Section 15: further provision relating to specified state professionals

20.15ZA

20.15ZA.1

The Council must specify in relation to a person who applies to be registered
in the dentists register under section 15(1)(d) what aptitude test or
adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be passed or
successfully completed by the person.

20.15ZA.2

Subsection (1) does not apply if the specified state qualification held by the
person is determined not to meet the standard in section 15(2ZA)(b)(ii)
because Condition 3 is met in relation to it (see section 15(2E)).

20.15ZA.3

Where the Council specify under this section an aptitude test or adaptation
period, or both, in relation to a person, the aptitude test or the adaptation
period, or the aptitude test and adaptation period together, must be
proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

20.15ZA.4

The Council must give a person their reasons for specifying an aptitude test
or an adaptation period, or both, in relation to the person under this
section, if the person makes a written request for them.

20.15ZA.5

If the Council specify aptitude tests in relation to persons under this
section, the Council must ensure that such tests are scheduled with reasonable
frequency and at least once a year.

20.15ZA.6

In this section, “ adaptation period ” and “ aptitude test ” have the same
meaning as in section 15.

.

21

In section 15A (supplementary provisions as to the necessary knowledge of
English) —

21.a

after subsection (4), insert—

21.a.4A

Where the applicant is applying in reliance on a specified state
qualification, the registrar may not request more evidence, information or
documents than is necessary to demonstrate to the registrar that the applicant
has the necessary knowledge of English.

;

21.b

after subsection (6), insert—

21.b.6A

Where the registrar requires an applicant who makes an application in reliance
on a specified state qualification to undergo an examination or other
assessment, the examination or assessment must be proportionate to the
knowledge of English referred to in section 15(3)(ba).

.

22

In section 18 (procedure for registration) —

22.a

in subsection (1), for “subsection (3)”, substitute  “subsections (3) to (5)”
;

22.b

after subsection (3), insert—

22.b.4

Where the person applying to be registered under section 15 is the holder of a
specified state qualification in dentistry, the person is not required to
produce or send to the registrar more evidence than is necessary to
demonstrate that the conditions falling to be satisfied before the person may
be registered are satisfied.

22.b.5

Where the person applying to be registered under section 15 is the holder of
such a qualification, the registrar must accept certified copies of documents
in place of original documents, unless the registrar requires original
documents in order to preserve the integrity of the application process.

22.b.6

For the purposes of subsection (5), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

.

23

In section 19 (regulations with respect to the register) , after subsection
(1), insert—

23.1ZA

If regulations under this section prescribe a fee to be charged on the entry
of a person’s name in the register in a case where the person applies for
registration as the holder of a specified state qualification in dentistry,
the fee must be—

23.1ZA.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such a person’s
application;

23.1ZA.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

23.1ZA.c

payable by electronic means through the Council’s own website.

.

24

In section 21A (notification of results of application) —

24.a

after subsection (2), insert—

24.a.2ZA

Where A holds a specified state qualification in dentistry, the registrar
must—

24.a.2ZA.a

give A adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures of the
application process; and

24.a.2ZA.b

deal promptly with A’s application.

;

24.b

in subsection (3), for the words from “within” to the end, substitute—

—

24.b.a

where A holds a specified state qualification, within the period of four
months beginning with the relevant date;

24.b.b

in any other case, within the period of three months beginning with that date.

.

25

After section 26B (guidance) , insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

25.26C

25.26C.1

The Council must make information about the following matters available to
specified state professionals who hold specified state qualifications in
dentistry—

25.26C.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

25.26C.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

25.26C.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

25.26C.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, erasure of registration;

25.26C.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals of that
description and the form in which it should be presented; and

25.26C.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of a registered
dentist that are acceptable to the Council.

25.26C.2

The Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals of that description about conditions that apply to the practice
of registered dentists.

.

26

In section 36C (qualifications for registration) —

26.a

after subsection (4A), insert—

26.a.4B

Subsection (4)(b) does not apply to a person whose application for
registration is made in reliance on a relevant qualification that is a
specified state qualification or relevant qualifications that are specified
state qualifications where—

26.a.4B.a

the relevant qualification demonstrates or the relevant qualifications taken
together demonstrate, in the opinion of the Council, a comparable level of
knowledge and skill to that demonstrated by a qualification approved (or
qualifications together approved) in respect of the same profession or class
under section 36D(2), or

26.a.4B.b

the person has met the requirement specified in relation to the person under
subsection (4E).

26.a.4C

The Council may determine that the person’s relevant qualification does not or
relevant qualifications taken together do not meet the standard in subsection
(4B)(a) only where one or more of Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

26.a.4D

For the purposes of this section—

26.a.4D.a

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
level of knowledge and skill demonstrated by the person’s relevant
qualification or qualifications taken together and the level of knowledge and
skill demonstrated by a qualification approved (or qualifications together
approved) in respect of the same profession or class under section 36D(2);

26.a.4D.b

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which the
qualification approved (or qualifications together approved) by the Council
under section 36D(2) in respect of the same profession or class relates (or
relate) include one or more professional activities that cover substantially
different matters from those covered by the person’s relevant qualification or
qualifications;

26.a.4D.c

Condition 3 is met where requiring the person to take an aptitude test or
complete an assessment period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the
person to acquire a qualification approved (or qualifications together
approved) by the Council under section 36D(2) in respect of the same
profession or class.

26.a.4E

If the person applies to be registered by virtue of subsection (4B)(b), the
Council must specify in relation to the person what aptitude test or
adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be passed or
successfully completed by the person.

26.a.4F

Subsection (4E) does not apply if the person’s relevant qualification is or
relevant qualifications taken together are determined not to meet the standard
in subsection (4B)(a) because Condition 3 is met in relation to the
qualification or qualifications.

26.a.4G

Where the Council specify under subsection (4E) an aptitude test or adaptation
period, or both, in relation to a person, the aptitude test or the adaptation
period, or the aptitude test and the adaptation period together, must be
proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

26.a.4H

The Council must give a person their reasons for specifying an aptitude test
or an adaptation period, or both, in relation to the person under this
section, if the person makes a written request for them.

26.a.4I

If the Council specify aptitude tests in relation to persons under this
section, the Council must ensure that such tests are scheduled with reasonable
frequency and at least once a year.

;

26.b

at the end, insert—

26.b.8

In this section—

“ adaptation period ”, in relation to registration under a particular title in
the dental care professionals register, means a period of practice subject to
an assessment and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is
supervised by a registered dental care professional of the profession, or
class of members of a profession, to which the title applies; “ aptitude test
”, in relation to registration under a particular title in the dental care
professionals register, means an assessment with the aim of determining
whether a person has the knowledge and skill that the Council consider to be
required for a person to practise as a member of the profession or class to
which the title relates.

.

27

In section 36CA (supplementary provisions as to necessary knowledge of
English) —

27.a

after subsection (4), insert—

27.a.4A

Where the applicant applies in reliance on a specified state qualification or
qualifications, the registrar may not request more evidence, information or
documents than is necessary to demonstrate to the registrar that the applicant
has the necessary knowledge of English.

;

27.b

after subsection (6), insert—

27.b.6A

Where the registrar requires an applicant who applies in reliance on a
specified state qualification or qualifications to undergo an examination or
other assessment, the examination or assessment must be proportionate to the
knowledge of English referred to in section 36C(6)(aa).

.

28

In section 36E (rules relating to the dental care professionals register) —

28.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

28.b

after subsection (1), insert—

28.b.2

Subsection (1) is subject to section 36EA .

.

29

After section 36E, insert—

########## Applications by specified state professionals under section 36C

29.36EA

29.36EA.1

Where a person applies for registration under section 36C in reliance on a
specified state qualification or qualifications, the registrar must—

29.36EA.1.a

within the period of one month beginning with the date of receipt of the
application—

29.36EA.1.a.i

acknowledge receipt of the application; and

29.36EA.1.a.ii

inform the applicant of any missing document required for the purposes of the
application;

29.36EA.1.b

give the applicant adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures
of the application process;

29.36EA.1.c

ensure that the evidence and information which the applicant must supply in
support of the application is no more than is necessary to demonstrate to the
registrar that the applicant satisfies the requirements for registration;

29.36EA.1.d

accept certified copies of documents in place of original documents, unless
the Council require original documents to protect the integrity of the
application process; and

29.36EA.1.e

deal promptly with the application and notify the applicant of the result of
the application within the period of four months beginning with the relevant
date.

29.36EA.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

29.36EA.3

In subsection (1)(e), “ the relevant date ”, in relation to an application,
is—

29.36EA.3.a

the date when the registrar receives the application, or

29.36EA.3.b

if any document required for the purposes of the application is missing when
the registrar receives the application, the date on which the registrar first
has all the documents required for those purposes.

29.36EA.4

If the registrar makes a request for further evidence, information or
documents from the applicant, the period beginning with the date on which the
registrar makes that request and ending with the date on which the applicant
complies with that request is to be disregarded in determining whether the
period of four months referred to in subsection (1)(e) has expired.

29.36EA.5

If the registrar imposes a requirement on the applicant under section 36CA(6),
the period beginning with the date on which the registrar imposes that
requirement and ending with the date on which the applicant satisfies that
requirement is to be disregarded in determining whether that period of four
months has expired.

29.36EA.6

A document which is requested or required under section 36CA(4) or (6)(b) is
not to be treated as missing for the purposes of this section.

.

30

In section 36F (fees) , after subsection (1), insert—

30.1ZA

If regulations under this section prescribe a fee to be charged on the entry
of a person’s name in the register in a case where the person applies for
registration in reliance on a specified state qualification or qualifications,
the fee must be—

30.1ZA.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such a person’s
application;

30.1ZA.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

30.1ZA.c

payable by electronic means through the Council’s own website.

.

31

After section 36M (guidance) , insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

31.36MA

31.36MA.1

The Council must make information about the following matters available to
persons who are eligible to apply for registration in the dental care
professionals register in reliance on their specified state qualifications—

31.36MA.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

31.36MA.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

31.36MA.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

31.36MA.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, erasure of registration;

31.36MA.1.e

the documentation required of such specified state professionals and the form
in which it should be presented; and

31.36MA.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registered
dental care professionals that are acceptable to the Council.

31.36MA.2

The Council must deal promptly with enquiries from such specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registered dental
care professionals.

.

32

In section 37 (definition of practice of dentistry) , after subsection (2B),
insert—

32.2C

Subsection (2) does not have effect in relation to dental work that is done by
a person as part of an adaptation period specified in relation to the person
by the Council under section 15ZA or 36C(4E).

.

33

In section 38  (prohibition on practice of dentistry by laymen), after
subsection (1), insert—

33.1A

A specified state professional undertaking an adaptation period specified in
relation to the person by the Council under section 15ZA or 36C(4E) does not
contravene subsection (1) by practising dentistry or by holding out as regards
practising or being prepared to practise dentistry if the practising of
dentistry is done as part of the adaptation period or (as the case may be) the
holding out relates only to the practising of dentistry as part of the
adaptation period.

.

34

In section 53 (interpretation) , in subsection (1), at the appropriate places
insert—

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a qualification in dentistry or in a
profession complementary to dentistry awarded in one of the states specified
in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023;

.

35

In Schedule 2A (registration appeals: dentists register) —

35.a

in paragraph 1, for the definition of “the requisite period”, substitute—

“the requisite period”— in relation to a decision as to the registration of a
specified state professional under section 15(1)(c), means the period of four
months beginning with the date when the registrar is first in possession of
sufficient information to make the decision; in relation to any other decision
of a kind specified in paragraph 2(1)(a) or a decision of a kind specified in
paragraph 2(1)(b), (d), (f), (g) or (i), means the period of three months
beginning with the date when the registrar is first in possession of
sufficient information to make the decision.

; and

35.b

in paragraph 2(1)(a), for “or (c)”, substitute  “, (c) or (d)” .

###### Amendments to the Opticians Act 1989

36

The Opticians Act 1989  is amended as follows.

37

In section 8 (qualifications for being registered) —

37.a

omit subsection (2C);

37.b

after that subsection, insert—

37.b.2D

Subsections (2E) to (2H) apply instead of subsections (2) to (2B) in the case
of a person whose qualification is a specified state qualification.

37.b.2E

Subject to subsection (2F), a person is entitled to have the person’s name in
the appropriate register if the person satisfies the Council that—

37.b.2E.a

the person holds a qualification as an optometrist or as a dispensing optician
which is a specified state qualification;

37.b.2E.b

the person has had adequate practical experience in the work of an optometrist
or dispensing optician; and

37.b.2E.c

the person is a fit person to practise as an optometrist or dispensing
optician.

37.b.2F

A person is not entitled to have the person’s name in the appropriate register
by virtue of subsection (2E) if the Council determine that one or more of
Conditions 1 to 3 are met in relation to the person’s specified state
qualification, unless the person satisfies the Council that the person has met
the requirement specified in relation to the person under section 8ZA.

37.b.2G

For the purpose of this section and section 8ZA—

37.b.2G.a

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
knowledge and skill evidenced by a person’s specified state qualification and
the knowledge and skill demonstrated by an approved UK qualification;

37.b.2G.b

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which an approved UK
qualification relates include one or more professional activities that cover
substantially different matters from those covered by the person’s specified
state qualification;

37.b.2G.c

Condition 3 is met where requiring the person to take an aptitude test or
complete an adaptation period would amount to requiring the person to acquire
an approved UK qualification.

37.b.2H

The Council may determine in relation to a person who holds a qualification as
an optometrist or as a dispensing optician which is a specified state
qualification that, before being entitled to have the person’s name in the
appropriate register, the person must pass such test, approved in accordance
with section 12(7)(c), as they consider appropriate.

37.b.2I

Where the Council make a determination that a specified state professional
must take a test approved in accordance with section 12(7)(c), the test must
be proportionate to the language skills necessary to practise as an
optometrist or a dispensing optician.

;

37.c

at the end, insert—

37.c.11

In this section “ approved UK qualification ” means a qualification that is—

37.c.11.a

approved under section 12(7)(b), and

37.c.11.b

granted by an establishment in the United Kingdom that is approved under
section 12(7)(a).

.

38

After section 8, insert—

########## Section 8: further provision relating to specified state qualifications

38.8ZA

38.8ZA.1

This section applies where a person who holds a specified state qualification
applies to have the person’s name in the appropriate register under section 8
and the Council determine that one or both of Conditions 1 and 2 are met in
relation to the person’s qualification.

38.8ZA.2

This section does not apply if the Council determine that Condition 3 is met
in relation to the person’s specified state qualification.

38.8ZA.3

Where this section applies, the Council must specify what aptitude test or
adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be passed or
successfully completed by the person before the person is entitled to have the
person’s name in the appropriate register.

38.8ZA.4

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this section, or an
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this section,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

38.8ZA.5

The Council must give a person their reasons for specifying an aptitude test
or an adaptation period, or both, in relation to the person under this
section, if the person makes a written request for them.

38.8ZA.6

If the Council specify aptitude tests in relation to persons under this
section, the Council must ensure that such tests are scheduled with reasonable
frequency and at least once a year.

.

39

In section 10 (general provisions as to registers and lists) , after
subsection (1), insert—

39.1ZB

If rules under this section prescribe a fee to be charged on the entry of a
person’s name in the register in a case where the person applies for
registration in reliance on a specified state qualification, the fee must be—

39.1ZB.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such a person’s
application;

39.1ZB.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

39.1ZB.c

payable by electronic means through the Council’s own website.

39.1ZC

Where a person applies for registration under section 8 in reliance on a
specified state qualification, the Council must—

39.1ZC.a

within the period of one month beginning with the date of receipt of the
application—

39.1ZC.a.i

acknowledge receipt of the application; and

39.1ZC.a.ii

inform the applicant of any missing document required for the purposes of the
application;

39.1ZC.b

give the applicant adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures
of the application process;

39.1ZC.c

ensure that the documentary and other evidence which is to accompany
applications for registration is no more than is necessary to demonstrate to
the Council that the applicant satisfies each of the requirements imposed by
or under section 8;

39.1ZC.d

accept copies of documents in place of original documents (subject to such
provision about verifying copies as is made by rules under subsection (1))
unless the Council require original documents to protect the integrity of the
application process;

39.1ZC.e

deal promptly with the application; and

39.1ZC.f

as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within four months
beginning with the relevant date, notify the applicant in writing of the
result of the application.

39.1ZD

In subsection (1ZC)(f), “ the relevant date ”, in relation to an application,
is—

39.1ZD.a

the date on which the Council receive the application; or

39.1ZD.b

if any document required for the purposes of the application is missing when
the Council receive the application, the date on which the Council first have
all the documents required for those purposes.

39.1ZE

If the Council make a request for further evidence, information or documents
from the applicant, the period beginning with the date on which the Council
make that request and ending with the date on which the applicant complies
with that request is to be disregarded in determining whether the period of
four months referred to in subsection (1ZC)(f) has expired.

.

40

After section 13A (the Council’s duty to provide guidance on fitness to
practise)  insert—

########## Information to be provided to specified state professionals

40.13AA

40.13AA.1

The Council must make information about the following matters available to
specified state professionals—

40.13AA.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

40.13AA.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

40.13AA.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

40.13AA.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, erasure or removal from the
appropriate register;

40.13AA.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

40.13AA.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registered
optometrists or registered dispensing opticians that are acceptable to the
Council.

40.13AA.2

The Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registered
optometrists or registered dispensing opticians.

.

41

In section 36 (interpretation) , at the appropriate places, insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a registered optometrist or registered dispensing optician;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment with the aim of determining whether a
person has the competencies for the time being established under section
12(1)(a) in relation to being granted a qualification as an optometrist or a
dispensing optician;

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a qualification as an optometrist or
as a dispensing optician granted in one of the states specified in Schedule 1
to the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of
International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

###### Amendments to the Osteopaths Act 1993

42

The Osteopaths Act 1993  is amended as follows.

43

In section 3 (full registration) —

43.a

for subsection (2)(d), substitute—

43.a.d

is a person who—

43.a.d.i

has a recognised qualification, or

43.a.d.ii

has a specified state qualification which is not a recognised qualification
and has met the requirement specified in relation to the person under section
14A.

; and

43.b

after subsection (2), insert—

43.b.2A

The General Council may require a specified state professional who wishes to
be registered under this section to demonstrate that the person possesses the
language skills necessary to the practice of a registered osteopath.

43.b.2B

A language test required by the General Council under subsection (2A) must be
proportionate to the level of language skills referred to in that subsection.

.

44

In section 6 (registration: supplemental provision) , after subsection (4),
insert—

44.4B

Subsections (2) to (4) are subject to subsection (4C) and section 6A.

44.4C

Any fee prescribed in connection with the making of an entry in the register
relating to a specified state professional must be—

44.4C.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such a person’s
application;

44.4C.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

44.4C.c

payable by electronic means through the General Council’s website.

.

45

After section 6, insert—

########## Registration: provision relating to specified state professionals

45.6A

45.6A.1

Where a specified state professional makes an application for full
registration, the Registrar must—

45.6A.1.a

within the period of one month beginning with the date of receipt of the
person’s application—

45.6A.1.a.i

acknowledge receipt of the application; and

45.6A.1.a.ii

inform the person of any missing document required for the purposes of the
application;

45.6A.1.b

give the person adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures of
the application process;

45.6A.1.c

ensure that the documentary and other evidence which is to accompany
applications for registration is no more than is necessary to demonstrate to
the Registrar that the person satisfies the conditions in section 3(2);

45.6A.1.d

accept certified copies of documents in place of original documents, unless it
requires original documents to protect the integrity of the application
process; and

45.6A.1.e

deal promptly with the person’s application and notify the person of the
result of the application within the period of four months beginning with the
relevant date.

45.6A.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

45.6A.3

In subsection (1)(e), “ the relevant date ”, in relation to an application,
is—

45.6A.3.a

the date when the Registrar receives the application; or

45.6A.3.b

if any document required for the purposes of the application is missing when
the Registrar receives the application, the date on which the Registrar first
has all the documents required for those purposes.

45.6A.4

If the Registrar makes a request for further evidence, information or
documents from such a specified state professional, the period beginning with
the date on which the Registrar makes that request and ending with the date on
which the person complies with that request is to be disregarded in
determining whether the period of four months referred to in subsection (1)(e)
has expired.

.

46

In section 14 (recognition of qualifications) , after subsection (2A), insert—

46.2B

The General Council may determine that a specified state qualification is not
evidence of having reached a standard of proficiency comparable to that
evidenced by a qualification recognised under subsection (2) only where one or
more of Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

46.2C

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
standard of proficiency evidenced by the specified state qualification and the
required standard of proficiency.

46.2D

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a recognised
qualification relates include one or more professional activities that cover
substantially different matters from those covered by the specified state
qualification.

46.2E

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds the specified state
qualification to pass an aptitude test or successfully to complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a recognised qualification.

.

47

After section 14, insert—

########## Section 14: further provision relating to specified state professionals

47.14A

47.14A.1

This section applies where a person who holds a specified state qualification
applies to be registered under section 3(2)(d) and the person’s qualification
is not a recognised qualification.

47.14A.2

This section does not apply if the person’s specified state qualification is
not a recognised qualification because Condition 3 is met in relation to it
(see section 14(2E)).

47.14A.3

Where this section applies, the General Council must specify what aptitude
test or adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be
passed or successfully completed by the person.

47.14A.4

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this section, or
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this section,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

47.14A.5

The General Council must give a person its reasons for specifying an aptitude
test or an adaptation period, or both, in relation to the person under this
section, if the person makes a written request for them.

47.14A.6

If the General Council specifies aptitude tests under this section, the
General Council must ensure that such aptitude tests are scheduled with
reasonable frequency and at least once a year.

.

48

After section 19 (the Code of Practice), insert—

########## Information to be made available to specified state professionals

48.19A

48.19A.1

The General Council must make information about the following matters
available to specified state professionals—

48.19A.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

48.19A.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

48.19A.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

48.19A.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, removal of an entry in the
register;

48.19A.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

48.19A.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of a registered
osteopath that are acceptable to the General Council.

48.19A.2

The General Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registered
osteopaths.

.

49

In section 29 (appeals against decisions of the Registrar) —

49.a

after subsection (1)(a) insert—

49.a.aa

fails to notify an applicant for full registration who is a specified state
professional of the result of the application in accordance with section
6A(1)(e),

;

49.b

in subsection (3), after “General Council” insert  “under subsection (1)(a),
(b), (c), (d) or (e)” ;

49.c

after subsection (3) insert—

49.c.3A

An appeal to the General Council under subsection (1)(aa) must be made before
the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the period
for notifying the specified state professional of the result of the
application expires (see section 6A(1)(e)).

.

50

In section 41 (interpretation) , at the appropriate places, insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a fully registered osteopath;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment with the aim of determining whether the
person has reached the required standard of proficiency;

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a qualification in osteopathy granted
in one of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

###### Amendments to the Chiropractors Act 1994

51

The Chiropractors Act 1994  is amended as follows.

52

In section 3 (full registration) —

52.a

for subsection (2)(d), substitute—

52.a.d

is a person who—

52.a.d.i

has a recognised qualification, or

52.a.d.ii

has a specified state qualification which is not a recognised qualification
and has met the requirement specified in relation to the person under section
14(A).

; and

52.b

after subsection (2), insert—

52.b.2A

The General Council may require a specified state professional who wishes to
be registered under this section to demonstrate that the person possesses the
language skills necessary to the practice of a fully registered chiropractor.

52.b.2B

A language test required by the General Council under subsection (2A) must be
proportionate to the level of language skills referred to in that subsection.

.

53

In section 6 (registration: supplemental provision) , after subsection (4),
insert—

53.4B

Subsections (2) to (4) are subject to subsection (4C) and section 6A.

53.4C

Any fee prescribed in connection with the making of an entry in the register
relating to a specified state professional must be—

53.4C.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such a person’s
application;

53.4C.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

53.4C.c

payable by electronic means through the General Council’s website.

.

54

After section 6, insert—

########## Registration: provision relating to specified state professionals

54.6A

54.6A.1

Where a specified state professional makes an application for full
registration, the Registrar must—

54.6A.1.a

within the period of one month beginning with the date of receipt of the
application—

54.6A.1.a.i

acknowledge receipt of the application; and

54.6A.1.a.ii

inform the person of any missing document required for the purposes of the
application;

54.6A.1.b

give the person adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures of
the application process;

54.6A.1.c

ensure that the documentary and other evidence which is to accompany
applications for registration is no more than is necessary to demonstrate to
the Registrar that the person satisfies the conditions in section 3(2);

54.6A.1.d

accept certified copies of documents in place of original documents, unless it
requires original documents to protect the integrity of the application
process; and

54.6A.1.e

deal promptly with the person’s application and notify the person of the
result of the application within the period of four months beginning with the
relevant date.

54.6A.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

54.6A.3

In subsection (1)(e), “ the relevant date ”, in relation to an application,
is—

54.6A.3.a

the date when the Registrar receives the application; or

54.6A.3.b

if any document required for the purposes of the application is missing when
the Registrar receives the application, the date on which the Registrar first
has all the documents required for those purposes.

54.6A.4

If the Registrar makes a request for further evidence, information or
documents from such a specified state professional, the period beginning with
the date on which the Registrar makes that request and ending with the date on
which the person complies with that request is to be disregarded in
determining whether the period of four months referred to in subsection (1)(e)
has expired.

.

55

In section 14 (recognition of qualifications) , after subsection (2A), insert—

55.2B

The General Council may determine that a specified state qualification is not
evidence of having reached a standard of proficiency comparable to that
evidenced by a qualification recognised under subsection (2) only where one or
more of Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

55.2C

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
standard of proficiency evidenced by the specified state qualification and the
required standard of proficiency.

55.2D

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a recognised
qualification relates include one or more professional activities that cover
substantially different matters from those covered by the specified state
qualification.

55.2E

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds the specified state
qualification to pass an aptitude test or successfully to complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a recognised qualification.

.

56

After section 14, insert—

########## Section 14: further provision relating to specified state professionals

56.14A

56.14A.1

This section applies where a person who holds a specified state qualification
applies to be registered under section 3(2)(d) and the person’s qualification
is not a recognised qualification.

56.14A.2

This section does not apply if the person’s specified state qualification is
not a recognised qualification because Condition 3 is met in relation to it
(see section 14(2E)).

56.14A.3

Where this section applies, the General Council must specify what aptitude
test or adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be
passed or successfully completed by the person.

56.14A.4

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this section, or an
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this section,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

56.14A.5

The General Council must give a person its reasons for specifying an aptitude
test or adaptation period, or both, in relation to the person under this
section, if the person makes a written request for them.

56.14A.6

If the General Council specifies aptitude tests under this section, the
General Council must ensure that such aptitude tests are scheduled with
reasonable frequency and at least once a year.

.

57

After section 19 (the code of practice), insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

57.19A

57.19A.1

The General Council must make information about the following matters
available to specified state professionals—

57.19A.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

57.19A.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

57.19A.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

57.19A.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, removal from the register;

57.19A.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

57.19A.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registered
chiropractors that are acceptable to the General Council.

57.19A.2

The General Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registered
chiropractors.

.

58

In section 29 (appeals against decisions of the Registrar) —

58.a

after subsection (1)(a), insert—

58.a.aa

fails to notify an applicant for full registration who is a specified state
professional of the result of the application in accordance with section
6A(1)(e),

;

58.b

in subsection (3), after “General Council”, insert  “under subsection (1)(a),
(b), (c), (d) or (e)” ;

58.c

after subsection (3), insert—

58.c.3A

An appeal to the General Council under subsection (1)(aa) must be made before
the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the period
for notifying the specified state professional of the result of the
application expires (see section 6A(1)(e)).

.

59

In section 43 (interpretation) , at the appropriate places, insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a registered chiropractor;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment with the aim of determining whether a
person has reached the required standard of proficiency;

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a qualification in chiropractic
granted in one of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

###### Amendments to the Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001

60

The Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001  is amended as follows.

61

In article 5A (supplementary provisions as to necessary knowledge of English)
, after paragraph (6), insert—

61.6A

A requirement imposed by the Council under sub-paragraph (6)(a) must be
proportionate to the level of language skills referred to in article 9(2)(ba).

.

62

In article 7 (the register: supplemental provisions) , after paragraph (2),
insert—

62.2A

Where the applicant applies in reliance on a specified state qualification or
qualifications, the Registrar may not request more documentary and other
evidence than is necessary to demonstrate to the Registrar that the applicant
has satisfied the conditions specified in article 9(2).

62.2B

Where documentary or other evidence falls to be provided in connection with
the registration of a specified state professional under article 9, the
Council must accept certified copies of documents in place of original
documents unless it requires original documents to protect the integrity of
the application process.

62.2C

For the purposes of paragraph (2B), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

62.2D

Any fee prescribed by the Council under paragraph (1) in connection with the
making of an entry in the register relating to a specified state professional
must be—

62.2D.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such an applicant’s
application;

62.2D.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

62.2D.c

payable by electronic means through the Council’s website.

.

63

In article 9 (registration) —

63.a

after paragraph (4), insert—

63.a.4A

Where a specified state professional makes an application under paragraph (1),
the Registrar must—

63.a.4A.a

give the applicant adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures
of the application process;

63.a.4A.b

within the period of one month beginning with the date when the Registrar
receives the application—

63.a.4A.b.i

acknowledge receipt of the application;

63.a.4A.b.ii

inform the applicant of any missing document required for the purposes of the
application; and

63.a.4A.c

deal promptly with the application.

;

63.b

in paragraph (5), for “the period of three months beginning with the relevant
date” substitute—

—

63.b.a

where A holds a specified state qualification, the period of four months
beginning with the relevant date;

63.b.b

in any other case, the period of three months beginning with that date.

.

64

In article 13 (approved qualifications) —

64.a

for paragraph (1)(d)(iii), substitute—

64.a.iii

subject to article 13ZA, the Council is satisfied that, following any test of
competence that it may require the applicant to take, the applicant has the
requisite standard of proficiency for admission to the part of the register in
respect of which the applicant is applying, provided that a specified state
professional who has passed an aptitude test or successfully completed an
adaptation period must be deemed to have the requisite standard of proficiency
referred to;

;

64.b

after paragraph (5), insert—

64.b.5A

The Council may determine that a specified state qualification is not evidence
of having reached a standard of proficiency comparable to that evidenced by a
qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a) only where one or more of
Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

64.b.5B

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
standard of proficiency evidenced by that specified state qualification and
the requisite standard of proficiency for admission to the part of the
register in respect of which the applicant is applying.

64.b.5C

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a qualification
approved under paragraph (1)(a) relates include one or more professional
activities that cover substantially different matters from those covered by
the specified state qualification.

64.b.5D

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds the specified state
qualification to pass an aptitude test or to successfully complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a).

.

65

After article 13, insert—

########## Article 13: further provision relating to specified state professionals

65.13ZA

65.13ZA.1

This article applies where a person holds a specified state qualification
which is not a relevant European qualification and wishes to be registered
under article 9.

65.13ZA.2

This article does not apply if the qualification held by the person is not a
relevant European qualification because Condition 3 in article 13(5D) is met
in relation to it.

65.13ZA.3

Where this article applies, the Council must specify what aptitude test or
adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be passed or
successfully completed by the person.

65.13ZA.4

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this article, or
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this article,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

65.13ZA.5

The Council must give a person its reasons for specifying in relation to the
person an aptitude test or adaptation period, or both, if the person makes a
written request for them.

65.13ZA.6

Where the Council specifies an aptitude test under this article, the Council
must ensure that such aptitude tests are scheduled with reasonable frequency
and at least once a year.

.

66

After article 21 (Council’s functions in respect of fitness to practise,
ethics and other matters) , insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

66.21A

66.21A.1

The Council must make information about the following matters available to
specified state professionals—

66.21A.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

66.21A.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

66.21A.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

66.21A.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, removal of an entry from the
register;

66.21A.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

66.21A.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registrants
that are acceptable to the Council.

66.21A.2

The Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registrants.

.

67

In Schedule 4 (interpretation) , at the appropriate places, insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a registered nurse, midwife or nursing associate;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment, with the aim of determining whether a
specified state professional meets the standards referred to in article
5(2)(a);

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a nursing or midwifery qualification
or a qualification comparable to that of a nursing associate awarded in one of
the states specified in Schedule 1 to the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

###### Amendments to the Health Professions Order 2001

68

The Health Professions Order 2001  is amended as follows.

69

In article 7 (the register: supplemental provisions) , in paragraph (2), for
“The rules”, substitute  “Subject to article 7A, the rules” .

70

After article 7 insert—

########## The register: specified state professionals - supplemental provisions

70.7A

70.7A.1

Where a specified state professional makes an application for registration—

70.7A.1.a

for the purposes of article 7(2)(c)(i) any fee charged must be—

70.7A.1.a.i

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of the applicant’s application;

70.7A.1.a.ii

transparent and made public in advance; and

70.7A.1.a.iii

payable by electronic means through the Council’s website;

70.7A.1.b

the documentary and other evidence required pursuant to rules made under
article 7(2)(d) must be no more than is necessary to demonstrate to the
Council that the applicant satisfies the conditions in article 9(2); and

70.7A.1.c

for the purposes of article 7(2)(d) the Council must accept certified copies
of documents in place of original documents, unless it requires original
documents to protect the integrity of the application process.

70.7A.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

.

71

In article 9 (registration) —

71.a

in paragraph (2), for sub-paragraph (a), substitute—

71.a.a

the applicant satisfies the Education and Training Committee that they—

71.a.a.i

hold an approved qualification awarded—

71.a.a.i.aa

within such period, not exceeding five years ending with the date of the
application, as may be prescribed, or

71.a.a.i.bb

before the prescribed period mentioned in head (aa), and they have met such
requirements as to additional education, training and experience as the
Council may specify under article 19(3) and which apply to them; or

71.a.a.ii

have passed an aptitude test or successfully completed an adaptation period
pursuant to article 12A;

;

71.b

after paragraph (4), insert—

71.b.4A

Where a specified state professional makes an application for registration
under paragraph (1), the Education and Training Committee must—

71.b.4A.a

within the period of one month beginning with the date of receipt of the
application—

71.b.4A.a.i

acknowledge receipt of the application; and

71.b.4A.a.ii

inform the applicant of any missing document required for the purposes of the
application;

71.b.4A.b

give the applicant adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures
of the application process; and

71.b.4A.c

deal promptly with the applicant’s application.

;

71.c

in paragraph (5), for the words from “within” to the end, substitute—

—

71.c.a

where the person holds a specified state qualification, within the period of
four months beginning with the day on which the application is received;

71.c.b

in any other case, within the period of three months beginning with that day.

.

72

In article 12 (approved qualifications) , after paragraph (1), insert—

72.1ZA

The Council may determine that a specified state qualification is not evidence
of having reached a standard of proficiency comparable to that evidenced by a
qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a) only where one or more of
Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

72.1ZB

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
standard of proficiency evidenced by the specified state qualification and the
standard of proficiency it is necessary for a person to achieve for admission
to the part of the register in respect of which the person is applying.

72.1ZC

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a qualification
mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) relates include one or more professional
activities that cover substantially different matters from those covered by
the specified state qualification.

72.1ZD

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds a specified state
qualification to pass an aptitude test or to successfully complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a).

.

73

After article 12, insert—

########## Article 12: further provision relating to specified state professionals

73.12A

73.12A.1

This article applies where a person—

73.12A.1.a

holds a specified state qualification which the Council has determined does
not meet the standard in article 12(1)(c)(i) because Condition 1 or 2 in
article 12 is met; and

73.12A.1.b

wishes to be registered under article 9.

73.12A.2

Where this article applies, the Council must specify what aptitude test or
adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be passed or
successfully completed by the person.

73.12A.3

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this article, or an
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this article,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

73.12A.4

The Council must give a person its reasons for specifying in relation to the
person an aptitude test or adaptation period, or both, if the person makes a
written request for them.

73.12A.5

Where the Council specifies an aptitude test under this article, the Council
must ensure that such aptitude tests are scheduled with reasonable frequency
and at least once a year.

.

74

In article 15 (education and training), after paragraph (5), insert—

74.5A

If the Council requires a specified state professional to undergo a test of
competence or knowledge of English, the test must be proportionate to the
level required to satisfy the standards under this article.

.

75

After article 21 (Council’s functions in respect of fitness to practise,
ethics and other matters) , insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

75.21A

75.21A.1

The Council must make information about the following matters available to
specified state professionals—

75.21A.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

75.21A.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

75.21A.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

75.21A.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, removal from the register;

75.21A.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

75.21A.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registrants
that are acceptable to the Council.

75.21A.2

The Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registrants.

.

76

In Schedule 3 (interpretation) , in paragraph 1, at the appropriate places
insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a registered professional of the corresponding relevant profession;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment with the aim of determining whether a
specified state professional has the standard of proficiency that the Council
considers requisite for admission to the part of the register in respect of
which the professional is applying;

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a qualification in one of the relevant
professions awarded in one of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

###### Amendments to the Pharmacy Order 2010

77

The Pharmacy Order 2010  is amended as follows.

78

In article 3 (interpretation) , in paragraph (1), at the appropriate places,
insert—

“ adaptation period ” means a period of practice, subject to an assessment
and, where necessary, accompanied by further training, which is supervised by
a registered pharmacist or registered pharmacy technician;

;

“ aptitude test ” means an assessment with the aim of determining whether a
specified state professional has the knowledge, skills and experience that the
Council considers requisite for practising as a registered pharmacist or
registered pharmacy technician;

;

“ specified state professional ” means a person who holds a specified state
qualification;

;

“ specified state qualification ” means a qualification in pharmacy or a
pharmacy technician qualification awarded in one of the states specified in
Schedule 1 to the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023;

.

79

After article 20 (entitlement to entry in Part 1 or 2 of the Register:
pharmacists and pharmacy technicians) , insert—

########## Article 20: further provision relating to specified state professionals

79.20A

79.20A.1

This article applies where a person holds a specified state qualification
which is not a relevant European qualification and wishes to be registered
under article 20.

79.20A.2

This article does not apply if the qualification held by the person is not a
relevant European qualification because Condition 3 in article 21(1G) or, as
the case may be, 22(1D) is met in relation to it.

79.20A.3

Where this article applies, the Council must specify what aptitude test or
adaptation period, or aptitude test and adaptation period, must be passed or
successfully completed by the person.

79.20A.4

An aptitude test or adaptation period specified under this article, or an
aptitude test and adaptation period together specified under this article,
must be proportionate to the difference sought to be addressed.

79.20A.5

The Council must give a person its reasons for specifying in relation to the
person an aptitude test or an adaptation period, or both, if the person makes
a written request for them.

79.20A.6

Where the Council specifies an aptitude test under this article, the Council
must ensure that such aptitude tests are scheduled with reasonable frequency
and at least once a year.

.

80

In article 21 (pre-entry requirements in respect of qualifications and
additional education, training or experience: pharmacists) —

80.a

in paragraph (1B), after “In this article”, insert  “and article 20A” ;

80.b

after paragraph (1C), insert—

80.b.1D

The Council may designate a specified state qualification for the purpose of
paragraph (1B)(a), or determine that a specified state qualification is not
evidence of having reached a standard of proficiency comparable to that
evidenced by a qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a), only where one
or more of Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

80.b.1E

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
standard of proficiency evidenced by the specified state qualification and the
standard of proficiency for the safe and effective practice that, in the
Council’s opinion, it is necessary for a person to achieve in order to be
entered in Part 1 of the Register.

80.b.1F

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a qualification
approved under paragraph (1)(a) relates include one or more professional
activities that cover substantially different matters from those covered by
the specified state qualification.

80.b.1G

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds a specified state
qualification to pass an aptitude test or to successfully complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a).

.

81

In article 22 (pre-entry requirements in respect of qualifications and
additional education, training or experience: pharmacy technicians) , after
paragraph (1), insert—

81.1A

The Council may determine that a specified state qualification is not evidence
of having reached a standard of proficiency comparable to that evidenced by a
qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a) only where one or more of
Conditions 1 to 3 are met.

81.1B

Condition 1 is met where there exists a substantial difference between the
standard of proficiency evidenced by the specified state qualification and the
standard of proficiency for the safe and effective practice of pharmacy that,
in the Council’s opinion, it is necessary for a person to achieve in order to
be entered in Part 2 of the Register;

81.1C

Condition 2 is met where the professional activities to which a qualification
approved under paragraph (1)(a) relates include one or more professional
activities that cover substantially different matters from those covered by
the specified state qualification.

81.1D

Condition 3 is met where requiring a person who holds a specified state
qualification to take an aptitude test or to successfully complete an
adaptation period, or to do both, would amount to requiring the person to
acquire a qualification approved under paragraph (1)(a).

.

82

In article 23 (form, manner and content of applications for entry or for
renewal of an entry in the Register: pharmacists and pharmacy technicians) —

82.a

in paragraph (1), for “The Council”, substitute  “Subject to paragraphs (1A)
and (1B), the Council” ;

82.b

after paragraph (1), insert—

82.b.1A

Where the applicant holds a specified state qualification, the documentary and
other evidence which is required to accompany applications of the kind
mentioned in paragraph (1) must be no more than is necessary to demonstrate to
the Registrar that the applicant satisfies the conditions set out in article
20(1).

82.b.1B

Where the applicant holds a specified state qualification, the Council must
accept certified copies of documents in place of original documents, unless it
requires original documents to protect the integrity of the application
process.

82.b.1C

For the purposes of paragraph (1B), a certified copy of a document is one
which is certified to be a true copy of the original by a solicitor practising
in any part of the United Kingdom.

.

83

In article 23A (supplementary provisions as to necessary knowledge of English)
, after paragraph (6), insert—

83.6A

Where the Registrar requires a specified state professional to undergo an
examination or other assessment, the examination or assessment must be
proportionate to the level of English required to satisfy the Registrar under
this article.

.

84

In article 24 (notification by the Registrar: entry and renewal) —

84.a

after paragraph (2), insert—

84.a.2C

Where A holds a specified state qualification, the Registrar must—

84.a.2C.a

give A adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures of the
application process; and

84.a.2C.b

deal promptly with A’s application.

;

84.b

in paragraphs (3) and (4), for “period of three months beginning with the
relevant date” substitute  “relevant period” ;

84.c

after paragraph (4), insert—

84.c.4A

For the purposes of this article, the relevant period is:

84.c.4A.a

where A holds a specified state qualification, the period of four months
beginning with the relevant date;

84.c.4A.b

in any other case, the period of three months beginning with that date.

;

84.d

in paragraph (5A), for “period of three months for the purposes of paragraph
(3) or (4)”, substitute  “relevant period” .

85

After article 36 (fees in connection with entry)  insert—

########## Additional requirements for specified state professionals

85.36A

Any fee prescribed by the Council under article 36(1) in connection with the
making of an entry in the register relating to a specified state professional
must be—

85.36A.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of dealing with such an applicant’s
application;

85.36A.b

transparent, and made public in advance; and

85.36A.c

payable by electronic means through the Council’s website.

.

86

After article 48 (standards of conduct and performance) , insert—

########## Information for specified state professionals

86.48A

86.48A.1

The Council must make information about the following matters available to
specified state professionals—

86.48A.1.a

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and other relevant matters;

86.48A.1.b

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising
professional activities;

86.48A.1.c

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence;

86.48A.1.d

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, removal from the register;

86.48A.1.e

the documentation required of specified state professionals and the form in
which it should be presented; and

86.48A.1.f

the documents and certificates issued in relation to professional
qualifications or other conditions that apply to the practice of registrants
that are acceptable to the Council.

86.48A.2

The Council must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about conditions that apply to the practice of registrants.

.

###### Amendments to the Postgraduate Medical Education and Training Order of Council 2010

87

The Postgraduate Medical Education and Training Order of Council 2010  is
amended as follows.

88

In article 4 (general practitioners eligible for entry in the General
Practitioner Register) , after paragraph (4), insert—

88.4A

Persons are also eligible general practitioners for the purposes of article
3(1)(a) if they are entitled to have their qualification in general practice
recognised by virtue of Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023.

.

89

In article 8 (specialists eligible for entry in the Specialist Register) ,
after paragraph (6), insert—

89.6A

A person is also an eligible specialist for the purposes of article 7(1)(a) if
that person is entitled to have their specialist qualification recognised by
virtue of Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023.

.

##### Amendments in relation to the professions of statutory auditor and local public auditor

###### Amendments to the Companies Act 2006

90

90.1

Schedule 10 to the Companies Act 2006 (recognised supervisory bodies)  is
amended as follows.

90.2

In paragraph 6 (holding of appropriate qualification) —

90.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1A), omit the “or” following paragraph (a);

90.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1A)(b)(iii), insert—

, or

90.2.b.c

the individual is a specified state auditor who—

90.2.b.c.i

holds professional qualifications obtained in a specified state that are
comparable to an appropriate qualification, and

90.2.b.c.ii

has met a requirement to take an aptitude test or to complete an adaptation
period, or to undertake both, imposed on the individual by the body in
accordance with Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023, if such a requirement is so imposed.

.

90.3

In paragraph 20A (interpretation) , in subparagraph (1), after the definition
of “public interest entity”, insert—

“ specified state ” means one of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023; “ specified state auditor
” means an individual who is eligible to conduct audits of the accounts of
bodies corporate that are incorporated or formed under the law of a specified
state in accordance with the law of that state;

.

###### Amendments to the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014

91

91.1

Schedule 5 to the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 (eligibility and
regulation of local auditors)  is amended as follows.

91.2

In paragraph 26(3) —

91.2.a

omit the “and” following paragraph (a);

91.2.b

after paragraph (b), insert—

and

91.2.b.c

after the definition of “officer”, insert—

“ specified state ” means one of the states specified in Schedule 1 to the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023; “ specified state auditor
” means an individual who is eligible to conduct audits of the accounts of
bodies corporate that are incorporated or formed under the law of a specified
state in accordance with the law of that state;

.

.

91.3

In paragraph 27(3), in the table at the appropriate place, insert—

“specified state” section 1261(1) “specified state auditor” section 1261(1)

.

91.4

In paragraph 28(3) , in the substituted paragraph 6 of Schedule 10 to the
Companies Act 2006, in sub-paragraph (1)—

91.4.a

omit the “or” following paragraph (b);

91.4.b

after paragraph (b), insert—

91.4.b.ba

is a specified state auditor who—

91.4.b.ba.i

holds professional qualifications obtained in a specified state that are
comparable to an appropriate qualification; and

91.4.b.ba.ii

has met a requirement to take an aptitude test or to complete an adaptation
period, or to undertake both, imposed on the individual by the body in
accordance with Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023, if such a requirement is so imposed, or

.

##### Amendments in relation to professions in transport

###### Amendments to the Road Safety Act 2006

92

92.1

The Road Safety Act 2006  is amended as follows.

92.2

In Schedule 6 (driving instruction)—

92.2.a

in paragraph 13—

92.2.a.i

after sub-paragraph (1), insert—

92.2.a.i.1A

Before subsection (1), insert—

92.2.a.i.1A.A1

A relevant person who is aggrieved by a failure of the Registrar to notify the
person of a decision in relation to the person’s application for registration
before the end of the period of four months beginning with the day after the
day on which the complete application was submitted, may appeal to the First-
tier Tribunal.

92.2.a.i.1A.B1

On an appeal under subsection (A1), the First-tier Tribunal may make such
order requiring the Registrar to notify the relevant person of a decision in
relation to the application as it thinks fit.

92.2.a.i.1A.C1

In subsections (A1) and (B1), “ relevant person ” means a person entitled to
give paid instruction in the driving of a motor car by virtue of Part 2 of the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

;

92.2.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (3), insert—

92.2.a.ii.3A

In subsection (3), for “the appeal” substitute  “an appeal under subsection
(1).”

;

92.2.b

in paragraph 23, in sub-paragraph (2), in the amendment to insert section
140(1) and (2), after subsection (1), insert—

92.2.b.1A

The power to make regulations under subsection (1) is, in the case of fees
payable by persons entitled to give paid instruction in the driving of a motor
car by virtue of Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023, subject to regulation 13 of those Regulations.

.

###### Amendments to the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations 1999

93

93.1

The Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations 1999  are amended as
follows.

93.2

In regulation 60 (certified instructors), after paragraph (3A), insert—

93.2.3B

A person does not have to satisfy the conditions mentioned in paragraph (3)(c)
and (d) if that person is entitled to give paid instruction in the riding of
A1 motorcycles and mopeds by virtue of Part 2 of the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

.

93.3

In regulation 65 (certified direct access instructors), after paragraph (3A),
insert—

93.3.3B

A person is exempt from the conditions set out in paragraph (2)(b) and (d) and
paragraph (3)(a) if that person is entitled to give paid instruction in the
riding of A2 motorcycles or A3 motorcycles by virtue of Part 2 of the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

.

###### Amendments to the Motor Cars (Driving Instruction) Regulations 2005

94

94.1

The Motor Cars (Driving Instruction) Regulations 2005  are amended as follows.

94.2

In regulation 17(1) (fees), in column (2) of the Table, in item (9), after
“125(3A)(b)” insert  “, (3B)(b)” .

###### Amendments to the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 2007

95

95.1

The Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 2007  is amended as follows.

95.2

In Article 2(2) (interpretation), before the definition of “statutory
provision”, insert—

“ the Regulations of 2023 ” means the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023;

.

95.3

In Article 52 (conditions of registration)—

95.3.a

for paragraph (2A), substitute—

95.3.a.2A

Where the Registrar is satisfied that a person who has applied under paragraph
(1) is entitled to give paid driving instruction of any description by virtue
of Part 2 of the Regulations of 2023, any condition prescribed by virtue of
paragraph (2)(a) which relates to that description of driving instruction does
not apply in relation to the applicant.

;

95.3.b

omit paragraph (2B).

95.4

In Article 59 (appeals to the Department) before paragraph (1), insert—

95.4.A1

A person who is entitled to give paid driving instruction of any description
by virtue of Part 2 of the Regulations of 2023 and who is aggrieved by the
failure of the Registrar—

95.4.A1.a

to make a decision in relation to an application for registration of the
person before the end of the period of four months beginning with the day
after the day on which the complete application was submitted; or

95.4.A1.b

to make a decision in relation to an application for the extension of the
person’s registration before the end of the period of four months beginning
with the day after the day on which the complete application was submitted,

may appeal by notice in writing to the Department.

95.4.B1

On an appeal under paragraph (A1), the Department may direct the Registrar to
make a decision in relation to the application.

.

95.5

In Article 75 (fees), after paragraph (2), insert—

95.5.3

The power to make regulations under paragraph (1) is, in the case of fees
payable by persons entitled to give paid driving instruction of any
description by virtue of Part 2 of the Regulations of 2023, subject to
regulation 13 of those Regulations.

.

###### Amendments to the Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010

96

96.1

The Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010  are amended as
follows.

96.2

In regulation 8 (conditions for obtaining a licence)—

96.2.a

for paragraph (5), substitute—

96.2.a.5

For the purpose of paragraph (2)(f) the required general professional
competence examination means:

96.2.a.5.a

an examination that covers the objectives and requirements set out in Schedule
3; or

96.2.a.5.b

an aptitude test pursuant to Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Amendment) Regulations 2023, where there is a significant difference between
the applicant’s professional knowledge and the objectives and requirements set
out in Schedule 3.

;

96.2.b

after paragraph (5), insert—

96.2.b.6

For the purposes of this regulation an aptitude test means a test, limited to
the professional knowledge of a train driver specified by the ORR with the aim
of ensuring that the applicant’s knowledge covers the objectives and
requirements set out in Schedule 3.

.

###### Amendments to the Driving and Motorcycle Riding Instructors (Recognition of European Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2016

97

97.1

The Driving and Motorcycle Riding Instructors (Recognition of European
Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2016  are amended as follows.

97.2

In regulation 2 (modifications of Part 5 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 that
have effect until the commencement of Schedule 6 to the Road Safety Act 2006)—

97.2.a

in paragraph (4), after sub-paragraph (f), insert—

97.2.a.fa

after subsection (3A) (as inserted by sub-paragraph (f)), insert—

97.2.a.fa.3B

Where the Registrar is satisfied that a person who has applied under
subsection (3) is entitled to give paid instruction in the driving of motor
cars by virtue of Part 2 of the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations
2023—

97.2.a.fa.3B.a

the Registrar may not impose a requirement on the applicant under subsection
(2C) if the Registrar is satisfied that the applicant holds a current
certificate or other document that, under the law of one of the specified
states set out in Schedule 1 to those Regulations, is of corresponding effect
to an emergency control certificate, and

97.2.a.fa.3B.b

subsection (3)(a) does not apply in relation to the applicant.

;

97.2.b

for paragraph (8), substitute—

97.2.b.8

In section 131 (appeals)—

97.2.b.8.a

before subsection (1), insert—

97.2.b.8.a.A1

A relevant person who is aggrieved by the failure of the Registrar to notify
the person of a decision in relation to an application for entry of the
person’s name in the register before the end of the period of four months
beginning with the day after the day on which the complete application was
submitted, may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal.

97.2.b.8.a.B1

On an appeal under subsection (A1), the First-tier Tribunal may make such
order requiring the Registrar to notify the relevant person of a decision in
relation to the application as it thinks fit.

97.2.b.8.a.C1

In subsections (A1) and (B1), “ relevant person ” means a person entitled to
give paid instruction in the driving of a motor car by virtue of Part 2 of the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

;

97.2.b.8.b

in subsection (3), for “the appeal” substitute  “an appeal under subsection
(1) or (2)” .

.

###### Amendments to the Street Works (Qualifications of Operatives and Supervisors) (England) Regulations 2016

98

98.1

The Street Works (Qualifications of Operatives and Supervisors) (England)
Regulations 2016  are amended as follows.

98.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

98.2.a

after the definition of “the 2009 Regulations”, insert—

“ the 2023 Regulations ” means the Recognition of Professional Qualifications
and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Amendment)
Regulations 2023;

;

98.2.b

for the definition of “adaptation period”, substitute—

“ adaptation period ” has the meaning given to it in regulation 3 of the 2023
Regulations;

;

98.2.c

for the definition of “aptitude test”, substitute—

“ aptitude test ” has the meaning given to it in regulation 3 of the 2023
Regulations;

.

98.3

In regulation 3 (prescribed qualifications) for paragraph (3)(b) and (c),
substitute—

98.3.b

a competent authority has issued a certificate of recognition stating that
qualifications held by the person for that type of work have been recognised
under Part 2 of the 2023 Regulations; or

98.3.c

a competent authority has issued a certificate of recognition stating that the
person has completed an adaptation period or has taken and passed an aptitude
test, imposed in accordance with Part 2 of the 2023 Regulations.

.

  Amendments consequent upon the commencement of section 5(1) of the
Professional Qualifications Act 2022 and revoking other EU recognition law

Regulation 5

##### Amendments in respect of professions in education

###### Amendments to the Education (School Teachers’ Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2003

1

1.1

The Education (School Teachers’ Qualifications) (England) Regulations 2003 are
amended as follows.

1.2

In Part 1 of Schedule 2 (qualified teacher status requirements)—

1.2.a

in paragraph 8(1) —

1.2.a.i

in paragraph (d), for “2019.”, substitute  “2019;” ;

1.2.a.ii

after paragraph (d), insert—

1.2.a.ii.e

a decision taken or determination made under the 2015 European Union
Regulations in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2(2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to the
Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (Commencement No. 3) Regulations 2023 .

;

1.2.b

in paragraph 8A(1) —

1.2.b.i

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (a)(ii);

1.2.b.ii

in paragraph (a)(iii), for “and”, substitute  “or” ;

1.2.b.iii

after paragraph (a)(iii), insert—

1.2.b.iii.iv

a decision taken or determination made under the 2015 European Union
Regulations in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2(2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to the
Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (Commencement No. 3) Regulations 2023;
and

.

###### Amendment to the Education (Induction Arrangements for School Teachers) (England) Regulations 2012

2

2.1

Paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to the Education (Induction Arrangements for School
Teachers) (England) Regulations 2012 (employment as a qualified teacher in a
relevant school without satisfactory completion of an induction period)  is
amended as follows.

2.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii) after “the 2019 Regulations”, insert  “or
paragraphs 1, 2(2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to the Professional Qualifications
Act 2022 (Commencement No. 3) Regulations 2023” .

##### Amendments in respect of professions in transport

###### Amendments to the Road Traffic (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2016

3

3.1

The Road Traffic (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2016  is amended as
follows.

3.2

In section 17(4)(b) (amendment of Article 19D of the Road Traffic (Northern
Ireland) Order 1981  as respects approved programmes of training: category B
motor vehicles and motor bicycles)—

3.2.a

in inserted paragraph (1ZB)(a)(i), omit “, EU temporary driving instructor”;

3.2.b

in inserted paragraph (1ZB)(a)(ii), omit “, EU temporary motorcycle
instructor”;

3.2.c

in inserted paragraph (1ZB)(a)(iii), omit “or an EU temporary motorcycle
instructor”; and

3.2.d

in inserted paragraph (1ZB)(b), for “approved motorcycle instructor, EU
temporary driving instructor and EU temporary motorcycle instructor”,
substitute  “and “approved motorcycle instructor”” .

###### Amendments to the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations 1999

4

4.1

The Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations 1999  are amended as
follows.

4.2

In regulation 16(13)(za) (conditions attached to provisional licences), omit
“either part of”.

4.3

In regulation 60 (certified instructors)—

4.3.a

in paragraph (1), for “60A”, substitute  “61” ;

4.3.b

at the end of paragraph (9), omit “, and includes a person in respect of whom
there is in force a valid certificate issued under regulation 60A(3)(c)”.

4.4

Omit regulation 60A (temporary certified instructors).

4.5

In regulation 62 (withdrawal of approval to provide training courses or to act
as an instructor)—

4.5.a

in paragraph (1), omit “or 60A(3)(b),”;

4.5.b

in paragraph (3)—

4.5.b.i

after “60(4)(b)”, omit “or 60A(3)(b),”;

4.5.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), omit “or 60A(3)(c)” in both places it occurs.

4.6

In regulation 63 (cessation of conduct of training)—

4.6.a

in paragraph (1)—

4.6.a.i

omit “or 60A(1)”;

4.6.a.ii

omit “or 60A(3)(c)” in both places it occurs;

4.6.b

in paragraph (2)—

4.6.b.i

omit “or 60A(5)”;

4.6.b.ii

omit “or 60A(3)(c)”.

4.7

In regulation 64(2) (approved training courses conducted by certified direct
access instructors), omit “or 65A”.

4.8

Omit regulation 65A (temporary certified direct access instructors).

4.9

In regulation 69A (review of Part V)—

4.9.a

omit paragraph (2);

4.9.b

omit paragraph (6).

4.10

In Schedule 13 (approved motor bicycle training courses: forms of
certificate)—

4.10.a

in the shoulder note, for “Regulations 60, 60A, 65, 65A and 68” substitute
“Regulations 60, 65 and 68” ;

4.10.b

omit Parts 4 and 5.

###### Amendments to the Motor Cars (Driving Instruction) Regulations 2005

5

5.1

The Motor Cars (Driving Instruction) Regulations 2005 are amended as follows.

5.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), in the definition of “approved driving
instructor”, omit “Part 1 of”.

5.3

In regulation 9(1) (additional conditions for entry of name on register), for
“in Part 1 of the register the name of a person who is required to pass the
examination”, substitute  “the name of a person in the register” .

5.4

In regulation 11(1) (additional condition for retention of names on the
register), omit “Part 1 of”.

5.5

In regulation 17(1) (fees), in column (2) of the Table—

5.5.a

in item 6, omit “Part 1 of”;

5.5.b

in item 8, omit “Part 1 of”;

5.5.c

in item 9, omit “Part 1 of”.

5.6

In regulation 18 (official title of registered person and certificate of
registration: Part 1)—

5.6.a

in the heading, omit “: Part 1”;

5.6.b

in paragraph (1), omit “Part 1 of”;

5.6.c

in paragraph (2), omit “Part 1 of”.

5.7

Omit regulation 18A (official title of registered person and certificate of
registration: Part 2).

5.8

In regulation 19 (form of badge: Part 1)—

5.8.a

in the heading, omit “: Part 1”;

5.8.b

after “whose names are in”, omit “Part 1 of”.

5.9

Omit regulation 19A (form of badge: Part 2).

5.10

In regulation 23 (review)—

5.10.a

omit paragraph (2);

5.10.b

omit paragraph (6).

5.11

In the title of Schedule 5, omit “: PART 1”.

5.12

Omit Schedule 5A (Form of Certificate: Part 2).

5.13

In the title of Schedule 6, omit “: PART 1”.

5.14

Omit Schedule 6A (Form of Badge: Part 2).

###### Amendments to the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 2007

6

6.1

The Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 2007 is amended as follows.

6.2

In Article 2(2) (interpretation), omit the definition of “the Regulations of
2015”.

6.3

In Article 48 (requirement of registration)—

6.3.a

for paragraph (1), substitute—

6.3.a.1

A person—

6.3.a.1.a

must not give paid driving instruction of any prescribed description unless he
is registered in respect of the giving of that description of driving
instruction; and

6.3.a.1.b

must not carry on a business in the provision of paid driving instruction of
any prescribed description unless he is registered in respect of the carrying
on of business in the provision of that description of driving instruction.

;

6.3.b

omit paragraph (1A);

6.3.c

in paragraph (7), omit “Part 1 or 2 of”.

6.4

In Article 49 (paid driving instruction: offences)—

6.4.a

in paragraph (1), for “48(1)”, substitute  “48(1)(a)” ;

6.4.b

in paragraph (2), for “48(1A)”, substitute  “48(1)(b)” ;

6.4.c

in paragraph (3), omit “in the appropriate part of the register”;

6.4.d

omit paragraph (5).

6.5

In Article 51 (register), omit paragraphs (1A) to (1C).

6.6

In Article 52 (conditions of registration)—

6.6.a

in paragraph (1)—

6.6.a.i

omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.6.a.ii

omit “in that Part”;

6.6.b

in paragraph (2), omit “in Part 1 of the register”.

6.7

In Article 55 (duration of registration)—

6.7.a

in paragraph (1), omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.7.b

in paragraph (3), omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.7.c

in paragraph (4), omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.7.d

omit paragraphs (6) to (8).

6.8

In Article 56 (extension of duration of registration)—

6.8.a

in paragraph (1), omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.8.b

in paragraph (4), omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.8.c

in paragraph (6), omit “in Part 1 of the register”.

6.9

In Article 57 (termination of registration by Registrar)—

6.9.a

in paragraph (1)—

6.9.a.i

insert  “or”  at the end of sub-paragraph (a);

6.9.a.ii

omit sub-paragraphs (c) and (d);

6.9.b

in paragraph (3)—

6.9.b.i

omit “or renewed”;

6.9.b.ii

omit “or renewal”.

6.10

In Article 58(1) (cases where Registrar may give direction as to further
applications), omit “, in respect of Part 1 of the register,”.

6.11

In Article 59 (appeals to the Department)—

6.11.a

in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), omit “or renewal”;

6.11.b

in paragraph (6), omit “in Part 1 of the register”;

6.11.c

in paragraph (11), omit “or renewal”.

6.12

In Article 60 (appeals to court of summary jurisdiction)—

6.12.a

in paragraph (1)(a), omit “or renewal”;

6.12.b

in paragraph (3), omit “in Part 1 of the register,”.

6.13

In Article 69(1) (power to alter registration period), omit “, in respect of
Part 1 of the register,”.

6.14

In Article 70 (evidence of registration)—

6.14.a

for paragraph (2), substitute—

6.14.a.2

If at any time a person who is not registered—

6.14.a.2.a

displays a certificate or other item prescribed under paragraph (1);

6.14.a.2.b

uses a title or other description prescribed under paragraph (1)(b); or

6.14.a.2.c

uses a title, certificate or other description implying that he is registered,

he is guilty of an offence unless he proves that he did not know, and did not
have reasonable cause to believe, that he was not registered at that time.

;

6.14.b

in paragraph (3)—

6.14.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a), omit “for use by other persons registered in either Part
of the register”;

6.14.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (a), insert  “or” ;

6.14.b.iii

omit sub-paragraph (c) and the “or” preceding it.

###### Amendments to the Driving and Motorcycle Riding Instructors (Recognition of European Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2016

7

7.1

The Driving and Motorcycle Riding Instructors (Recognition of European
Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2016 are amended as follows.

7.2

In regulation 2 (modifications of Part 5 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 that
have effect until the coming into force of Schedule 6 to the Road Safety Act
2006)—

7.2.a

omit paragraph (2);

7.2.b

omit paragraph (3);

7.2.c

in paragraph (4)—

7.2.c.i

omit sub-paragraphs (a) to (e);

7.2.c.ii

omit sub-paragraph (g);

7.2.d

omit paragraph (5);

7.2.e

omit paragraph (6);

7.2.f

omit paragraph (7);

7.2.g

in paragraph (9)—

7.2.g.i

omit sub-paragraphs (a) and (b);

7.2.g.ii

in sub-paragraph (c), in the subsection (3) substituted by that sub-paragraph—

7.2.g.ii.aa

omit “Part 1 of”;

7.2.g.ii.bb

omit “that Part of” in each place it occurs;

7.2.g.iii

in sub-paragraph (c), omit the subsection (4) substituted by that sub-
paragraph.

7.3

Omit regulations 3 and 4.

###### Amendments to the Street Works (Qualifications of Operatives and Supervisors) (England) Regulations 2016

8

8.1

The Street Works (Qualifications of Operatives and Supervisors) (England)
Regulations 2016 are amended as follows.

8.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

8.2.a

omit the definition of “the 2015 Regulations”;

8.2.b

for the definition of “competent authority”, substitute—

      “ competent authority ” means the Scottish Qualifications Authority, the
City and Guilds of London Institute and the Certification and Association
Board for the Water Authority;

.

8.3

Omit regulation 7 (freedom to provide services on a temporary basis).

##### Amendment to the Provision of Services Regulations 2009

###### Amendment to the Provision of Services Regulations 2009

9

9.1

The Provision of Services Regulations 2009  are amended as follows.

9.2

In regulation 31(5)(k) for “38, 39 and 40” substitute  “38 and 39” .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision under section 3(1) of the Professional
Qualifications Act  2022 (c. 20)  (“ the 2022 Act ”) to implement provisions
relating to the recognition of professional qualifications contained in the
free trade agreement between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and
the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland done at London on 8th July 2021 (“ the EEA EFTA free trade agreement
”).

  Part 2 establishes rules for the recognition of professional qualifications
obtained in a specified state. The specified states are listed in Schedule 1
to these Regulations.

  Part 3 establishes rules for the provision of information by regulators and
dealing with enquiries from professionals who have obtained professional
qualifications in a specified state.

  Schedule 3 contains amendments to sectoral legislation for the purpose of,
and in connection with, implementing provisions relating to the recognition of
professional qualifications in the EEA EFTA free trade agreement.

  These Regulations also make amendments, in Schedule 4, to sectoral
legislation consequent upon the commencement of section 5(1) of the 2022 Act
and revoking other EU recognition law. Section 5(1) revokes the European Union
(Recognition of Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/2059
) which provided a general system of recognition for qualifications from the
European Economic Area and Switzerland. Commencement regulations will bring
section 5(1) of the 2022 Act into force on the same day as this instrument
comes into force.

  An impact assessment has not been produced as no, or no significant, impact
on the public, private or voluntary sector is foreseen. An Explanatory
Memorandum is available alongside this instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .
A copy has also been placed in the Libraries of both Houses of Parliament.

