Title: The Ecclesiastical Judges, Legal Officers and Others (Fees) Order 2023
Date: 2024-09-30
Description: This Order revokes and replaces the Ecclesiastical Judges, Legal Officers and Others (Fees) Order 2022.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/865

## The Ecclesiastical Judges, Legal Officers and Others (Fees) Order 2023

    Ecclesiastical Law, England

  Made   7th July 2023

  Laid before Parliament   31st July 2023

  Coming into force   1st January 2024

      In accordance with section 86(11) of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction and
Care of Churches Measure 2018 , this Order has been laid before, and approved
by, the General Synod.           The Fees Advisory Commission, in exercise of
the powers conferred by section 86(3) to (4B) of that Measure , makes the
following Order:

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Ecclesiastical Judges, Legal Officers and
Others (Fees) Order 2023.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 1st January 2024.

1.3

In the application of this Order to the diocese of Canterbury—

1.3.a

a reference to the consistory court is to be read as a reference to the
commissary court of that diocese, and

1.3.b

a reference to the chancellor is, accordingly, to be read as a reference to
the Commissary General.

1.4

In this Order, “ the 2018 Measure ” means the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction and
Care of Churches Measure 2018.

### Direction as to fee

2

Where in this Order there is a reference in any article to a specified amount
of any fee payable to the chancellor or registrar, the chancellor or the
registrar (as the case may be) may determine that a fee should be paid up to
the amount specified in any case.

### Faculty fees payable to diocesan boards of finance

3

3.1

This article applies in relation to a petition for a faculty in respect of a
building or part of a building, a curtilage of a building or an object or
structure fixed to a building or part of a building or within its curtilage,
which is subject to the faculty jurisdiction by virtue of section 43(1) of the
2018 Measure.

3.2

On the submission of the petition, a fee of £213 is payable to the diocesan
board of finance in respect of work done in relation to the petition (before
or after it is submitted) by the diocesan advisory committee or an archdeacon
in the diocese.

3.3

But the diocesan board of finance may waive the whole or part of that fee,
having regard to any financial contribution made to the funds of the diocese
by—

3.3.a

those responsible for the building concerned, or

3.3.b

any other person who has a substantial interest in or connection with the
building.

3.4

No fee is payable under this article in the case of—

3.4.a

a building of the kind specified in section 38(2)(e) of the 2018 Measure
(building subject to a sharing agreement), or

3.4.b

a chapel forming part of Lambeth Palace.

3.5

In this article, “ diocesan board of finance ”, in relation to a diocese,
means the board of that name constituted under the Diocesan Boards of Finance
Measure 1925 .

### The register of patrons under Part 1 of the Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986

4

4.1

This article applies in relation to work done by a diocesan registrar in
connection with—

4.1.a

a search in the register of patrons maintained under Part 1 of the Patronage
(Benefices) Measure 1986 ,

4.1.b

the making of an extract from that register, or

4.1.c

the supply of a certified copy of an entry in that register.

4.2

The fee payable for the work is a fee of the amount calculated in accordance
with the Solicitors’ (Non-Contentious Business) Remuneration Order 2009 ,
except in so far as the work is within the scope of any annual fee for the
time being payable to the diocesan registrar by virtue of section 86(1) and
(3) of the 2018 Measure.

4.3

The fee is payable by the person making the search or extract or requesting
the copy.

### Proceedings before the consistory court

5

5.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings in a consistory court.

5.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 1, the fee
specified in the second or third column is payable to the chancellor or the
registrar (as the case may be).

  Table 1           Chancellor       £         Registrar       £       1.
Submission of petition for a faculty. 55 227 2. Application for an injunction
or restoration order under section 71 or 72 of the 2018 Measure. 55 227 3. The
making of an injunction or restoration order under section 71 or 72 of the
2018 Measure on the court’s own initiative. 55 227 4. Application for an order
under section 63 of the 2018 Measure. 70 163 5. Application for a
determination under section 68(12) of the Mission and Pastoral Measure 2011 .
115 115 6. Commencement of any other proceedings which a consistory court has
jurisdiction to hear and determine. 70 163 7. Application for security for
costs (otherwise than at a hearing in respect of which a fee is payable under
item 8)— (a) at a hearing; 287 227 (b) without a hearing. 143 113 8. The
giving of directions or the making of an interlocutory order— (a) at a
hearing; 282 227 (b) without a hearing. 143 116 9. The making of an order that
proceedings are to be determined on the consideration of written
representations (including the giving of directions for the purpose of
determining proceedings on such a consideration). - 115 10. Consideration of
written representations (per hour). 143 - 11. The holding of a hearing (other
than a hearing solely for giving directions or making an interlocutory order)—
(a) for each period of half a day or less; 357 284 (b) for each period of more
than half a day and up to a whole day. 716 569 12. Inspection of a location, a
church or other building or anything else (except where the inspection takes
place on the same occasion as a hearing) (per hour). 143 113 13. Preparation
of written judgment or form of order (per hour). 143 - 14. Application for
assessment of costs by the registrar. - 227 15. Lodging an appeal to the
chancellor against an assessment of costs by the registrar. 238 - 16.
Application to set aside or amend a faculty, judgment, order or decree. 174 60
17. Application to vary a lease or any term of a lease under section 68(7) of
the Mission and Pastoral Measure 2011. 70 163 18. Preparatory or ancillary
work, including sending correspondence (per hour). - 158

5.3

In the case of a matter which comes within item 10, 12, 13 or 18, the
chancellor or the registrar (as the case may be) must certify the number of
hours spent.

5.4

In the case of a matter which comes within item 18, a fee is payable only in
exceptional circumstances and if the chancellor so directs.

5.5

In the case of a matter for which no fee is specified in Table 1, a fee is
payable to the registrar of the amount for the time being prescribed under
section 92 of the Courts Act 2003  in the case of the equivalent matter in the
High Court.

5.6

Where the Vicar-General’s court of the Province of Canterbury exercises the
faculty jurisdiction of the consistory court by virtue of section 43(3) of the
2018 Measure—

5.6.a

a reference in this article to the chancellor is to be read as a reference to
the Vicar-General, and

5.6.b

a reference in this article to the registrar is to be read as a reference to
the registrar of the province of Canterbury acting as registrar of the Vicar-
General’s court.

### Appeals from consistory court and intervention by provincial court

6

6.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings on an appeal from a consistory
court and where a provincial court gives any directions for the further
conduct of proceedings which are pending in a consistory court.

6.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 2, the fee
specified in the second or third column is payable to the judge or the
registrar (as the case may be).

  Table 2           Judge       £         Registrar       £       1.
Application to the chancellor for a certificate under section 18(4) of the
2018 Measure and (if needed) for leave to appeal. 140 45 2. Application to the
Dean of the Arches and Auditor for leave to appeal. 266 145 3. The holding of
a hearing by the chancellor or the Dean of the Arches and Auditor on an
application for leave to appeal. 481 362 4. Lodging notice of appeal with the
Arches Court of Canterbury, the Chancery Court of York or the Court of
Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved. - 145 5. Application for security for costs
(otherwise than at a hearing in respect of which a fee is payable under item
6)— (a) at a hearing; 385 292 (b) without a hearing. 196 145 6. The giving of
directions or the making of an interlocutory order— (a) at a hearing; 385 292
(b) without a hearing. 192 142 7. The holding of a hearing (other than a
hearing solely for giving directions or making an interlocutory order)— (a)
for each period of half a day or less; 481 362 (b) for each period of more
than half a day and up to a whole day. 964 722 8. Preparation of written
judgment or form of order (per hour). 196 - 9. Application for assessment of
costs by the registrar. - 291 10. Preparatory or ancillary work, including
sending correspondence (per hour). - 284

6.3

In the case of the Arches Court of Canterbury or the Chancery Court of York—

6.3.a

a fee under item 6 is payable to each member of the Court who joins in the
giving of the directions or the making of the order concerned;

6.3.b

a fee under item 7 is payable to each member of the Court involved in the
hearing;

6.3.c

a fee under item 8 is payable to each member of the Court who prepares a
separate written judgment or is principally responsible for drafting the form
of order.

6.4

In the case of the Court of Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved, no fee is payable
under items 6 to 8 to members of the Court.

6.5

In the case of a matter which comes within item 8 or 10, the judge or the
registrar (as the case may be) must certify the number of hours spent.

6.6

In this article, “ judge ” means the person presiding over the court
concerned.

### Proceedings on review by Commission of Review

7

7.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings on a review under section 11
or 14 of the Care of Cathedrals Measure 2011  (“ the 2011 Measure ”) by a
Commission of Review constituted under section 11 of that Measure.

7.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 3, the fee
specified in the second or third column is payable to the judge or the
registrar (as the case may be).

  Table 3           Judge       £         Registrar       £       1. The
making of a request under section 11(1) or (2) or 14(1) of the 2011 Measure. -
145 2. The giving of directions or the making of an interlocutory order— (a)
at a hearing; 385 291 (b) without a hearing. 196 142 3. The holding of a
hearing (other than a hearing solely for giving directions or making an
interlocutory order)— (a) for each period of half a day or less; 481 362 (b)
for each period of more than half a day and up to a whole day. 964 722 4.
Inspection of a location, a cathedral or other building or anything else
(except where the inspection takes place on the same occasion as a hearing)
(per hour). 196 145 5. Preparation of written judgment or form of order (per
hour). 196 - 6. Preparatory or ancillary work, including sending
correspondence (per hour). - 284

7.3

In the case of a matter which comes within items 4 to 6, the judge or the
registrar (as the case may be) must certify the number of hours spent.

7.4

In this article, “ judge ” means the person who is a member of the Commission
of Review by virtue of section 11(3)(a) of the 2011 Measure.

### Proceedings in Vicar-General’s court

8

8.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings before the Vicar-General’s
court of either province under the Care of Cathedrals Measure 2011 (“ the 2011
Measure ”).

8.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 4, the fee
specified in the second or third column is payable to the Vicar-General or the
registrar (as the case may be).

  Table 4           Vicar-General       £         Registrar       £       1.
Institution of proceedings for an injunction or restoration order under
section 18 of the 2011 Measure. 5515 158 2. The giving of directions or the
making of an interlocutory order— (a) at a hearing; 287 227 (b) without a
hearing. 143 113 3. The holding of a hearing (other than a hearing solely for
giving directions or making an interlocutory order)— (a) for each period of
half a day or less; 358 284 (b) for each period of more than half a day and up
to a whole day. 716 569 4. Inspection of a location, a cathedral or other
building or anything else (except where the inspection takes place on the same
occasion as a hearing) (per hour). 143 113 5. Preparation of written judgment
or form of order (per hour). 143 - 6. Application for assessment of costs by
the registrar. - 227 7. Preparatory or ancillary work, including sending
correspondence (per hour). - 284

8.3

A fee under this article is payable by the Archbishops’ Council under section
20B of the 2011 Measure .

8.4

In the case of a matter which comes within item 4, 5 or 7, the Vicar-General
or the registrar (as the case may be) must certify the number of hours spent.

### Proceedings on certain ecclesiastical offences

9

9.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings before the Court of
Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved under section 10(1)(a) of the Ecclesiastical
Jurisdiction Measure 1963 (offences against the laws ecclesiastical involving
matter of doctrine, ritual or ceremonial).

9.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 5, the fee
specified in the second column is payable to the registrar.

  Table 5           Registrar       £       1. The giving of directions or the
making of an interlocutory order— (a) at a hearing; 291 (b) without a hearing.
145 2. The holding of a hearing (other than a hearing solely for giving
directions or making an interlocutory order)— (a) for each period of half a
day or less; 291 (b) for each period of more than half a day and up to a whole
day. 145 3. Inspection of a location, building or anything else (except where
the inspection takes place on the same occasion as a hearing) (per hour). 145
4. Preparation of form of order (per hour). 145 5. Preparatory or ancillary
work, including sending correspondence (per hour). 284

9.3

A fee under this article is payable by the Archbishops’ Council under section
62 of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963.

9.4

In the case of a matter which comes within item 3, 4 or 5, the registrar must
certify the number of hours spent.

### Proceedings on review of finding of Court of Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved

10

10.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings on a review by a Commission of
Review under section 11 of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963 (“ the
1963 Measure ”) or section 19 of the 2018 Measure (review of a finding of the
Court of Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved) where the provincial registrar is
appointed as registrar of the Commission of Review.

10.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 6, the fee
specified in the second column is payable to the registrar.

  Table 6           Registrar       £       1. The giving of directions or the
making of an interlocutory order— (a) at a hearing; 291 (b) without a hearing.
145 2. The holding of a hearing (other than a hearing solely for giving
directions or making an interlocutory order)— (a) for each period of half a
day or less; 362 (b) for each period of more than half a day and up to a whole
day. 722 3. Preparation of form of order (per hour). 145 4. Preparatory or
ancillary work, including sending correspondence (per hour). 284

10.3

A fee under this article is payable—

10.3.a

in proceedings on a case of the kind referred to in section 11(2)(a) of the
1963 Measure, by the Archbishops’ Council under section 62 of that Measure;

10.3.b

in proceedings under section 19 of the 2018 Measure, by the person whom the
Commission of Review orders to pay the fee.

10.4

In the case of a matter which comes within item 3 or 4, the registrar must
certify the number of hours spent.

### Disciplinary proceedings under the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003

11

11.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings instituted under section 10 of
the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003 .

11.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 7, the fee
specified in the second or third column is payable to the judge or the
registrar (as the case may be).

  Table 7           Judge       £         Registrar       £       1. The
giving of directions or the making of an interlocutory order— (a) at a
hearing; 287 227 (b) without a hearing. 143 113 2. The holding of a hearing
(other than a hearing solely for giving directions or making an interlocutory
order)— (a) for each period of half a day or less; 357 284 (b) for each period
of more than half a day and up to a whole day. 716 569 3. Inspection of a
location, building or anything else (except where the inspection takes place
on the same occasion as a hearing) (per hour). 143 113 4. Preparation of
written judgment or form of order (per hour). 143 - 5. Application for
assessment of costs by the registrar. - 113 6. Preparatory or ancillary work,
including sending correspondence (per hour) - 284

11.3

A fee under this article is, by virtue of section 35 of the Clergy Discipline
Measure 2003, payable by the Archbishops’ Council under section 62 of the
Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963.

11.4

In the case of a matter which comes within item 3, 4 or 6, the judge or the
registrar (as the case may be) must certify the number of hours spent.

11.5

In this article, “ judge ” means the person presiding over the tribunal or
court concerned.

### Appeals under the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003

12

12.1

This article applies in relation to proceedings under section 20 of the Clergy
Discipline Measure 2003 (right of appeal).

12.2

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 8, the fee
specified in the second or third column is payable to the Dean of the Arches
and Auditor or the registrar (as the case may be).

  Table 8           Dean of the Arches and Auditor       £         Registrar
£       1. Application for leave to appeal under section 20(1A) of the Clergy
Discipline Measure 2003. 266 145 2. The giving of directions or the making of
an interlocutory order— (a) at a hearing; 385 291 (b) without a hearing. 196
145 3. The holding of a hearing (other than a hearing solely for giving
directions or making an interlocutory order)— (a) for each period of half a
day or less; 481 362 (b) for each period of more than half a day and up to a
whole day. 964 722 4. Preparation of written judgment or form of order (per
hour). 196 - 5. Application for assessment of costs by the registrar. - 315 6.
Preparatory or ancillary work, including sending correspondence (per hour). -
284

12.3

A fee under this article is payable by the Archbishops’ Council under section
62 of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963.

12.4

In the case of a matter which comes within item 4 or 6, the Dean of the Arches
and Auditor or the registrar (as the case may be) must certify the number of
hours spent.

### Fees payable to person appointed under section 4(4) of the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003

13

13.1

This article applies in the case of an appointment of a person by the
President of Tribunals under section 4(4) of the Clergy Discipline Measure
2003 (“ the 2003 Measure ”) (appointment of person as chair of disciplinary
tribunals to act when President unable or unwilling to act).

13.2

In the case of each of the following matters, the fee of £208 is payable to
the person appointed—

13.2.a

deciding whether to give permission under section 9 of the 2003 Measure
(institution of proceedings out of time);

13.2.b

determining an application under section 31(3A) of the 2003 Measure  (criminal
or matrimonial matters: extension of two-year period for imposition of
penalty);

13.2.c

determining a request under section 38(2) or (3) of the 2003 Measure (review
of inclusion in Archbishops’ list);

13.2.d

determining an application under rule 56 of the Clergy Discipline Rules 2005
(substitution of party);

13.2.e

determining an application under rule 101B of those Rules  (word or page
limits);

13.2.f

deciding whether to extend a time limit under Rule 102 of those Rules (time
limits);

13.2.g

determining a request under paragraph 2(5) of Canon C 30  (request to review
direction that priest or deacon undergo safeguarding risk assessment);

13.2.h

doing anything else in place of the President of Tribunals for the purposes of
the appointment which does not come within the preceding provisions of this
paragraph or within paragraph (3).

13.3

In the case of each of the following matters, the fee of £400 is payable to
the person appointed—

13.3.a

conducting a review under section 11(4) of the 2003 Measure (review of
dismissal);

13.3.b

considering a referral under section 13 of the 2003 Measure (decision to take
no further action);

13.3.c

making a decision under section 17 of the 2003 Measure (whether respondent has
case to answer);

13.3.d

determining an appeal against suspension under section 36, 36A, 37 or 37A of
the 2003 Measure ;

13.3.e

making a determination under Rule 14A of the Clergy Discipline Rules 2005
(sexual misconduct towards vulnerable adult).

13.4

A fee under this article is, by virtue of section 35 of the 2003 Measure,
payable by the Archbishops’ Council under section 62 of the Ecclesiastical
Jurisdiction Measure 1963.

### Summary election appeals

14

14.1

This article applies in the case of a summary election appeal brought under—

14.1.a

rules made under paragraphs 1(a) and (b), 6 and 9 of Canon H 2 of the Church
of England  (clergy),

14.1.b

rules made under paragraphs 1(c) and 2(b) of Canon H 3 of the Church of
England  (suffragan bishops),

14.1.c

rules made under rule 59 of the Church Representation Rules (laity) .

14.2

For each hour spent by the judge determining the appeal, a fee equivalent to
that payable per hour under item 4 of Table 8 in article 12 (Clergy Discipline
Measure 2003: preparing judgement on appeal) is payable to the judge.

14.3

A fee under this article is payable in accordance with the provision as to
expenses contained in the applicable rules referred to in paragraph (1)(a),
(b) or (c) .

14.4

The judge determining the appeal must certify the number of hours spent
determining it.

### Miscellaneous annual fees etc.

15

15.1

In the case of each matter specified in the first column of Table 9, the fee
specified in the second column is payable to the person concerned.

  Table 9       £   1. Application to the provincial registrar for permission
under the Overseas Clergy (Ministry and Ordination) Measure 1967 . 142 2.
Issue by the provincial registrar of the Archbishop’s licence for service
chaplains. 66 3. Annual fee for the Vicar-General of the Province of
Canterbury. 2988 4. Annual fee for the Vicar-General of the Province of York.
2424 5. Annual fee for the President of Tribunals. 8573 6. Annual fee for the
Deputy President of Tribunals. >8573

15.2

In the case of a matter which comes within items 1 to 4, a fee under this
article is payable by the Archbishop; but see section 86(6) of the 2018
Measure (which requires the Church Commissioners to reimburse the Archbishop).

15.3

In the case of a matter which comes within item 5 or 6, a fee under this
article is, by virtue of section 35 of the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003,
payable by the Archbishops’ Council under section 62 of the Ecclesiastical
Jurisdiction Measure 1963.

### Exemption, reduction or remission

16

16.1

A person who would be entitled to an exemption from or reduction in, or a
remission or part remission of, a fee prescribed by the Order for the time
being in force under section 92 of the Courts Act 2003  (“ the Civil
Proceedings Fees Order ”) is entitled to an equivalent exemption from or
reduction in, or remission or part remission of, a fee provided for by this
Order; and the Civil Proceedings Fees Order applies accordingly for the
purposes of this Order.

16.2

Where the Civil Proceedings Fees Order includes provision requiring an
application to be made for an exemption from, reduction in or remission of a
fee, that provision is to be read for the purposes of this Order as requiring
the application to be made to the registrar.

16.3

Where the Civil Proceedings Fees Order includes provision enabling a specified
person to exercise a discretion in relation to an exemption from, reduction in
or remission of a fee, that provision is to be read for the purposes of this
Order as enabling the registrar to exercise the discretion.

16.4

The determination of an application made to the registrar under paragraph (2),
or any work done under paragraph (3), is to be treated for the purposes of
this Order as work which is ancillary to the proceedings in which the
application is made or work is done; and the fee provided for by this Order
for ancillary work in proceedings of that kind is payable to the registrar.

16.5

Where a person is entitled to an exemption from or reduction in, or remission
or part remission of, a fee provided for by this Order, the diocesan board of
finance for the diocese concerned must pay the amount which would be payable
were it not for the exemption, reduction or remission.

16.6

The reasonable costs of the registrar in the determination of an application
under paragraph (2) are payable by the diocesan board of finance.

16.7

In this article, “ diocesan board of finance ”, in relation to a diocese,
means the board of that name constituted under the Diocesan Boards of Finance
Measure 1925 .

### Travel, subsistence, accommodation and court hearings

17

A fee provided for by this Order (other than the fee provided for under
article 3) is to be increased by a sum for reasonable expenses of travel,
subsistence, accommodation and the holding of court hearings.

### Value Added Tax

18

Where Value Added Tax is chargeable in respect of the provision of a service
for which a fee is provided for by this Order, the amount of the Value Added
Tax chargeable is payable in addition to that fee.

### Revocation

19

The Ecclesiastical Judges, Legal Officers and Others (Fees) Order 2022  is
revoked.

      R. Cooper   A. Spriggs   J. Munro   L.M. Connacher   C. Fender   P.
Hopkins   + D. Williams   C. Smith   S. Roberts   Fees Advisory Commission
Church House, London       15th June 2023             This Order was approved
by the General Synod on 7th July 2023.       A. S. McGregor   Registrar of the
General Synod

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order revokes and replaces the Ecclesiastical Judges, Legal Officers
and Others (Fees) Order 2022.

  Article 3 sets the fee payable for submitting a petition in faculty
proceedings under the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction and Care of Churches Measure
2018.

  Article 4 provides for the fee relating to certain functions under the
Patronage (Benefices) Measure 1986 to be set by reference to the Solicitors’
(Non-Contentious Business) Remuneration Order 2009.

  Article 5 sets the fees payable in faculty proceedings in the consistory
court. In relation to the diocese of Canterbury, references in this article
and in article 6 to the consistory court are to be read as references to the
commissary court (see article 1(3)).

  Article 6 sets the fees payable in proceedings on an appeal from a
consistory court and which apply in the event of an intervention by the
provincial court in the conduct of proceedings pending before a consistory
court.

  Article 7 sets the fees payable in proceedings on a review by a Commission
of Review of certain decisions of the Cathedrals Fabric Commission for England
under the Care of Cathedrals Measure 2011.

  Article 8 sets the fees payable in proceedings in the Vicar-General’s court
in the province of Canterbury or the province of York under the Care of
Cathedrals Measure 2011.

  Article 9 sets the fees payable in proceedings before the Court of
Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved under the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure
1963 in relation to offences against the laws ecclesiastical involving matter
of doctrine, ritual or ceremonial.

  Article 10 sets the fees payable in proceedings on a review by a Commission
of Review under section 11 of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963 or
section 19 of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction and Care of Churches Measure of
a finding of the Court of Ecclesiastical Causes Reserved.

  Article 11 sets the fees payable in disciplinary proceedings brought under
the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003.

  Article 12 sets the fees payable in proceedings on an appeal under the
Clergy Discipline Measure 2003.

  Article 13 sets the fees payable to a person appointed under section 4(4) of
the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003 to act instead of the President of
Tribunals where he or she is unable or unwilling to act.

  Article 14 sets the fees payable to the judge determining a summary election
appeal under the rules governing elections to the General Synod.

  Article 15 sets the fees payable in certain miscellaneous cases (including
certain annual fees).

  Article 16 makes provision for there to be exemptions from, reductions in or
remissions of fees under the Order equivalent to those which apply in civil
proceedings in the secular courts.

  Article 17 provides that a fee under this Order may be increased to cover
the expenses of travel, subsistence, accommodation and the holding of
hearings.

  Article 18 provides that the amounts set under this Order are exclusive of
Value Added Tax (in the case of matters for which it is chargeable).

  The revised fees under this Order come into effect on 1st January 2024.

