Title: The Social Security, Universal Credit and State Pension (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-07-07
Description: These Regulations make minor amendments to various social security and state pension regulations.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/93

## The Social Security, Universal Credit and State Pension (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    This Statutory Rule has been made in consequence of a defect in  S.R. 2016
No.226  and  S.R. 2017 No.146 and is being issued free of charge to all known
recipients of those Statutory Rules

    Social Security

  Made   6th June 2023

  Coming into operation -   29th June 2023

      The Department for Communities   makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 5(1)(a), (b), (c), (d), (j) and
(l), 5(2)(za) and 165(1), (4) to (6) of the Social Security Administration Act
(Northern Ireland)1992  and now vested in it  and Articles 17(4) and 48(1) and
(2) of, and paragraphs 1(1), 4(1)(a), (2)(c) to (e), and (3)(a) and 7 of
Schedule 6 to, the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 , and section
18(1) of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 .           In accordance
with section 150(1)(b) of the Social Security Administration (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992, the Social Security Advisory Committee has agreed that the
proposals in respect of these Regulations should not be referred to it.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security, Universal Credit and
State Pension (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
and come into operation on 29th June 2023.

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations

2

After regulation 29(5) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016  (period for which the LCWRA element is not to be included), insert—

2.6

Paragraph (1) does not apply where a claimant has limited capability for work
and it is subsequently determined that they have limited capability for work
and work-related activity.

.

### Amendment of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations

3

In regulation 25(2) of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment,
Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and
Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  (time within which a claim for
universal credit is to be made), for the words “, subject to a maximum
extension of one month, to the date on” substitute  “up to and including the
day that would be the last day of the first assessment period for an award
beginning on the first day in respect of” .

### Amendment of the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations

4

4.1

The Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern
Ireland)2016  are amended as follows.

4.2

In regulation 7(1) (treatment of ongoing entitlement to certain benefits:
benefit cap), for “regulation 27 of the Universal Credit Regulations”
substitute  “regulation 25 of the Claims and Payments Regulations” .

4.3

In regulation 22(4)(b) (other claimants with limited capability for work:
credit only cases), for “regulation 28(1)(b)” substitute  “regulation 28(1)” .

4.4

In regulation 47(1)(b) (termination of existing benefits if no claim before
the deadline), after “in the case of” insert  “housing benefit in the form of
a rate rebate awarded in accordance with regulation 12 of the Housing Benefit
Regulations or regulation 12 of the Housing Benefit (State Pension Credit)
Regulations or” .

4.5

In regulation 54(10) (transitional element – total legacy amount), for “in
respect of housing benefit” substitute  “for housing benefit in respect of
specified or temporary accommodation” .

4.6

In Schedule 1 (modification of tax credits legislation – finalisation of tax
credits), omit—

4.6.a

paragraph 2(b);

4.6.b

paragraph 25(a);

4.6.c

paragraph 26(b);

4.6.d

paragraph 27(b).

4.7

In Schedule 2 (claimants previously entitled to a severe disability premium)—

4.7.a

in paragraph 5(b)(i) (claimants previously entitled to a severe disability
premium), for “if the higher severe disability premium rate was payable”
substitute  “if the higher severe disability premium rate is payable on the
first day of the award and no person becomes a carer for either of them in the
first assessment period” ;

4.7.b

renumber paragraph 8 as paragraph 8(1) and at the end insert, insert—

4.7.b.2

In paragraph 5(b)(i) the reference to a person being a carer for another
person is to the person being entitled to, and in receipt of, a carer’s
allowance or having an award of universal credit which includes the carer
element in respect of caring for that other person.

;

4.7.c

after paragraph 8, insert—

4.7.c.9

For the purposes of paragraph 3(b) and 5(b)(i), paragraph 6(6) of Schedule 4
to the ESA Regulations 2008 or, as the case may be, the corresponding
provision in relation to income support or income-based jobseeker’s allowance,
is to be disregarded.

.

### Amendment of the State Pension Regulations

5

5.1

In the State Pension Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  after regulation
11(2)(a)(x) insert—

5.1.xi

 universal credit under Part 2 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order
2015 (universal credit).

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 6th
June 2023       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## Explanatory Note

    (This is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make minor amendments to various social security and state
pension regulations.

  Regulation 2 amends regulation 29 of the Universal Credit Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 216 ), which makes provision for the
period for which the limited capability for work and work-related activity
element is not to be included in an award of universal credit. Regulation
29(1) sets out the general rule for when the element is not included and
regulation 2 inserts a new regulation 29(6) which provides an exception to the
general rule where a person has limited capability for work, and it is
subsequently determined that they have limited capability for work and work-
related activity.

  Regulation 3 amends regulation 25(2) of the Universal Credit, Personal
Independence Payment, Jobseekers Allowance and Employment and Support
Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R.
2016 No. 220 ) (“ the Claims and Payments Regulations ”) to provide for the
maximum time period in which a claim for universal credit can be made to be
more closely aligned with the operation of universal credit. If a claimant
does not make a claim on the first day of the period in respect of which they
wish to claim universal credit, they can nonetheless be entitled to universal
credit from that day, provided that they make a claim on or before what would
have been the last day of the first assessment period had they made the claim
on that first day.

  Regulation 4 amends various provisions of the Universal Credit (Transitional
Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No.226 ) (“ the
2016 Regulations ”). Regulation 4(2) amends regulation 7(1) of the 2016
Regulations, which makes provision for the ongoing entitlement to benefits and
the application of the benefit cap, so that an erroneous reference to the
Universal Credit Regulations is corrected to refer to the Claims and Payments
Regulations.

  Paragraph (3) of regulation 4 amends regulation 22 of the 2016 Regulations,
which makes provision for a person in receipt of National Insurance credits on
the date they make a claim for universal credit. In such a case, if it had
been determined that the person has limited capability for work and work-
related activity had they been entitled to old-style employment and support
allowance, the person would be treated as having limited capability for work
and work-related activity in universal credit. An erroneous reference to
regulation 28(1)(b) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016 is corrected to refer to regulation 28(1) of those Regulations.

  Paragraph (4) of regulation 4 amends regulation 47 of the 2016 Regulations,
to clarify the end date of the rates element of housing benefit.

  Paragraph (5) of regulation 4 amends regulation 54 of the 2016 Regulations,
which makes provision for the amount of transitional element, to clarify that
housing benefit in respect of specified or temporary accommodation is not
included in the consideration of the award of transitional element.

  Paragraph (6) of regulation 4 amends the modifications to the Tax Credits
Act 2002 and the Tax Credits (Income Thresholds and Determination of Rates)
Regulations 2002 in Schedule 1 to the 2016 Regulations. These modifications
clarify the position for the finalisation of entitlement where the award is
terminated within the tax year following a claim for universal credit. The
amendments remove some unnecessary references to a “part” of the current tax
year.

  Paragraph (7) of regulation 4 amends Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations by
providing that a couple will receive a higher transitional severe disability
premium element if they continue to meet the conditions of eligibility for a
higher severe disability premium rate up to and including the first day of the
universal credit award and no person becomes a carer for either of them in the
first assessment period. It also contains a related definition and provides
for provisions in other legislation to be disregarded as a consequence.

  Regulation 5 amends the State Pension Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (
S.R. 2015 No. 315 ) by adding universal credit to the list of benefits which,
if received during a period of deferral of State Pension, are not included in
determining the period of deferral for incremental purposes.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, public or voluntary sectors is
foreseen.

