Title: The Curriculum (Circumstances in which a Pupil may be Excused from Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights Education) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-02-26
Description: In accordance with Article 10A(5) of the Education (Northern Ireland) Order 2006, these Regulations set out the circumstances in which a pupil may be excused from age-appropriate, comprehensive and scientifically accurate education on sexual and reproductive health and rights or specified elements of that education which relate to prevention of pregnancy and access to abortion.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/222

## The Curriculum (Circumstances in which a Pupil may be Excused from Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights Education) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Education   Curriculum

  Made   19th December 2023

  Coming into operation   1st January 2024

      The Department of Education , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 10A(5) and 43(5) of the Education
(Northern Ireland) Order 2006  and after consultation with those considered
appropriate, in accordance with Article 10A(6) of that Order.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Curriculum (Circumstances in which a
Pupil may be Excused from Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights Education)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st
January 2024.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1986 Order ” means the Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland)
Order1986 ;           “ the 2006 Order ” means the Education (Northern
Ireland) Order 2006;           “ Article 5(1A) education ” means education
required by Article 5(1A) of the 2006 Order ;           “ grant-aided school ”
has the meaning at Article 2(2) of the 1986 Order;           “ key stage 3 ”
has the meaning at Article 3(3)(d) of the 2006 Order;           “ key stage 4
” has the meaning at Article 3(3)(e) of the 2006 Order;           “ parent ”
has the meaning at Article 2(2) of the 1986 Order ;           “ pupil ” means
a person who is receiving education in a grant-aided school in key stage 3 or
key stage 4;           “ specified elements of Article 5(1A) education ” means
age-appropriate, comprehensive and scientifically accurate education on—
prevention of early pregnancy; and           access to abortion.

### Circumstances in which a pupil may be excused from Article 5(1A) education or a specified element of that education

3

3.1

The circumstances in which a pupil may be excused from Article 5(1A) education
at the request of a parent are—

3.1.a

the pupil is in year 8, 9, 10 or 11 at a grant-aided school and a parent’s
request confirms that Article 5(1A) education is contrary to their wishes; or

3.1.b

the pupil is in year 12 at a grant-aided school, a parent’s request confirms
that Article 5(1A) education is contrary to their wishes and the pupil does
not object to being excused.

3.2

The circumstances in which a pupil may be excused from a specified element of
Article 5(1A) education at the request of a parent are—

3.2.a

the pupil is in year 8, 9, 10 or 11 at a grant-aided school and a parent’s
request confirms that a specified element of Article 5(1A) education is
contrary to their wishes; or

3.2.b

the pupil is in year 12 at a grant-aided school, a parent’s request confirms
that a specified element of Article 5(1A) education is contrary to their
wishes and the pupil does not object to being excused.

3.3

A parent’s request made under paragraph (1) or (2) shall—

3.3.a

be in writing;

3.3.b

be addressed to the principal of the grant-aided school at which the pupil is
registered ;

3.3.c

identify the pupil to whom it relates;

3.3.d

specify whether it relates to paragraph (1) (Article 5(1A) education) or
paragraph (2) (a specified element of Article 5(1A) education);

3.3.e

confirm that the Article 5(1A) education or a specified element of Article
5(1A) education (as the case may be) is contrary to their wishes.

3.4

Where a pupil has been excused in accordance with this regulation, the excusal
remains in force—

3.4.a

in the case of Article 5(1A) education until the end of the school year in
which the request was made;

3.4.b

in the case of a specified element of Article 5(1A) education, until that
education has been completed.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Education on 19th
December 2023       (L.S.)   Ray Caldwell   A senior officer of the
Department of Education

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  In accordance with Article 10A(5) of the Education (Northern Ireland) Order
2006, these Regulations set out the circumstances in which a pupil may be
excused from age-appropriate, comprehensive and scientifically accurate
education on sexual and reproductive health and rights or specified elements
of that education which relate to prevention of pregnancy and access to
abortion.

