Title: The First-tier Tribunal for Scotland Local Taxation Chamber and Upper Tribunal for Scotland (Composition) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-27
Description: These Regulations make provision as to the composition of the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland when dealing with cases in the Local Taxation Chamber. They also make provision as to the composition of the Upper Tribunal for Scotland when dealing with cases appealed or referred from the Local Taxation Chamber.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/47

## The First-tier Tribunal for Scotland Local Taxation Chamber and Upper Tribunal for Scotland (Composition) Regulations 2023

    Tribunals And Inquiries

  Made   21st February 2023

  Coming into force   1st April 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 10(2) and (3), 38(1) to (3) and 40(1), (3) and
(4) of the Tribunals (Scotland) Act 2014  and all other powers enabling them
to do so.       In accordance with section 11(2) of that Act, they have
consulted the President of Tribunals.           In accordance with section
79(2)(c) of that Act, a draft of this instrument has been laid before and
approved by resolution of the Scottish Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland Local
Taxation Chamber and Upper Tribunal for Scotland (Composition) Regulations
2023 and come into force on 1 April 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ Chamber President ” means the Chamber President of the First-tier
Tribunal,           “ council tax reduction case ” means proceedings relating
to an appeal against a determination on a council tax reduction application
under—         regulation 90B of the Council Tax Reduction (Scotland)
Regulations 2012 ,           regulation 70B of the Council Tax Reduction
(State Pension Credit) (Scotland) Regulations 2012 , or           regulation
94 of the Council Tax Reduction (Scotland) Regulations 2021 ,
“ First-tier Tribunal ” means the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland Local
Taxation Chamber ,           “ non-list appeal case ” means proceedings
relating to an appeal specified in Part III of the Council Tax (Alteration of
Lists and Appeals) (Scotland) Regulations 1993 ,           “ the Upper
Tribunal ” means the Upper Tribunal for Scotland.

### Composition of First-tier Tribunal

3

3.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the First-tier Tribunal, when convened to
decide any matter in a case, must consist of—

3.1.a

either—

3.1.a.i

the Chamber President,

3.1.a.ii

a legal member, or

3.1.a.iii

a judicial member, and

3.1.b

either—

3.1.b.i

one ordinary member, or

3.1.b.ii

two ordinary members.

3.2

The First-tier Tribunal, may consist of either the Chamber President, a legal
member, or a judicial member acting alone when—

3.2.i

convened at a hearing to decide any matter in a non-list appeal case or a
council tax reduction case, or

3.2.ii

disposing of a council tax appeal on the basis of written representations
under rule 9(2) of the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland Local Taxation Chamber
(Rules of Procedure) Regulations 2022 .

3.3

The authority to determine the composition of the First-tier Tribunal in
respect of the alternative compositions referred to in paragraph (1) is
delegated to the President of Tribunals, who may sub-delegate the authority to
the Chamber President.

3.4

If, at or after the beginning of a hearing in which there are two ordinary
members, a member of the First-tier Tribunal other than the legal member is
absent, the hearing may, with the consent of the parties, be conducted by the
legal member and the remaining member and in that event the First-tier
Tribunal shall be deemed to be properly constituted, and the decision of the
First-tier Tribunal shall be taken by the legal member and that member.

### Composition of Upper Tribunal hearing appeals or referrals from First-tier Tribunal

4

4.1

  The Upper Tribunal, when convened to decide any matter in a case appealed or
referred from the First-tier Tribunal, must consist of—

4.1.a

a member of the Upper Tribunal acting alone,

4.1.b

two or three members of the Upper Tribunal,

4.1.c

the Chamber President (except a temporary Chamber President), acting alone or
with no more than two members of the Upper Tribunal,

4.1.d

the President of Tribunals, acting alone or with the Chamber President or with
no more than two members of the Upper Tribunal, or

4.1.e

the Lord President, acting alone or with the Chamber President or with no more
than two members of the Upper Tribunal.

4.2

The Chamber President referred to in paragraph (1) must not have had any
involvement in the case prior to the appeal of the case to the Upper Tribunal.

4.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a member of the Upper Tribunal acting
alone may be a legal member or a judicial member but may not be an ordinary
member.

4.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.5

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b)  ... at least one of the members of the
Upper Tribunal must be a legal member or a judicial member and at least one
member must be an ordinary member.

4.6

The authority to determine the composition of the Upper Tribunal in respect of
the alternative compositions referred to in paragraph (1) is delegated to the
President of Tribunals, including determining whether a member is to be a
legal member or a judicial member.

4.7

In paragraph (1), a case appealed or referred from the First-tier Tribunal
includes a case transferred to the Upper Tribunal by virtue of the Upper
Tribunal for Scotland (Transfer of Valuation for Rating Appeal Functions of
the Lands Tribunal for Scotland) Regulations 2023.

      ELENA WHITHAM   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       21st February 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision as to the composition of the First-tier
Tribunal for Scotland when dealing with cases in the Local Taxation Chamber.
They also make provision as to the composition of the Upper Tribunal for
Scotland when dealing with cases appealed or referred from the Local Taxation
Chamber.

  The First-tier Tribunal for Scotland and the Upper Tribunal for Scotland are
known collectively as the Scottish Tribunals. The Scottish Tribunals were
established by the Tribunals (Scotland) Act 2014. The First-tier Tribunal is
divided into chambers according to the subject matter of the case, with the
Local Taxation Chamber dealing with a range of matters relating to local
taxation including property valuation, council tax banding and council tax
reduction appeals. Members of the tribunals can be ordinary members, legal
members or judicial members according to criteria set out in the Tribunals
(Scotland) Act 2014 and regulations made under that Act. This instrument sets
out which member or members may hear local taxation cases in the two
tribunals.

  A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared for these
Regulations and placed in the Scottish Parliament Information Centre. Copies
can be obtained from the Scottish Government Justice Directorate, St Andrew’s
House, Edinburgh EH1 3DG, and online at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

