Title: The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-02-14
Description: These Regulations govern the student loan liability of full-time students who receive loans for living costs from the Welsh Ministers in respect of the academic year 2023/2024.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/494

## The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales) Regulations 2023

    Education, Wales

  Made   2 May 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   4 May 2023

  Coming into force   1 August 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred upon the Secretary of State by sections 22(1)(a), (2)(g) and
(3)(d) and 42(6) of the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998  and now
exercisable by them .

### Title and coming into force

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Cancellation of Student Loans for Living
Costs Liability (Wales) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1 August 2023.

### Application

2

These Regulations apply in relation to Wales and to the provision of support
to students in respect of the Academic Year 2023/2024.

### Interpretation

3

In these Regulations—

“ the 1998 Act ” (“ Deddf 1998 ”) means the Teaching and Higher Education Act
1998; “ the 2008 Act ” (“ Deddf 2008 ”) means the Sale of Student Loans Act
2008 ; “ academic year ” (“ blwyddyn academaidd ”) means the period of 12
months beginning on 1 September, 1 January, 1 April or 1 July of the calendar
year in which the academic year of the course in question begins, according to
whether that academic year begins on or after 1 August but before 1 January,
on or after 1 January but before 1 April, on or after 1 April but before 1
July, or on or after 1 July but before 1 August, respectively; “ Academic Year
2023/2024 ” (“ Blwyddyn Academaidd 2023/2024 ”) means an academic year which
begins on or after 1 September 2023 but before 1 September 2024; “ borrower ”
(“ benthyciwr ”) means a person who has received a loan for living costs; “
loan for living costs ” (“ benthyciad at gostau byw ”) is a loan received from
the Welsh Ministers in respect of the Academic Year 2023/2024 under Part 6 of
the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017  or under Part 8 of
the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018  in respect of a
full-time course; “ Outstanding Liability ” (“ Atebolrwydd sydd heb ei Dalu ”)
has the meaning given in regulation 7; “ Repayment Date ” (“ Dyddiad Ad-dalu
”) means the day after the date on which the borrower’s first loan repayment
is considered to have been received by either His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs or the Welsh Ministers, whichever is considered (in accordance with
regulations made under section 22 of the 1998 Act ) to have received it first;
“ Satisfaction Date ” (“ Dyddiad Bodloni ”) has the meaning given in
regulation 9; “ Specified Amount ” (“ Swm Penodedig ”) has the meaning given
in regulation 6; “ Welsh Ministers ” (“ Gweinidogion Cymru ”) includes any
person to whom they have transferred or delegated their functions under
section 23 of the 1998 Act  or to whom they have transferred their rights
under section 9 of the 2008 Act.

### Qualification for cancellation

4

A borrower qualifies for cancellation of the Specified Amount of their
Outstanding Liability in the circumstances set out in regulation 5 (“the
Circumstances”).

### Circumstances

5

The Circumstances for the purposes of regulation 4 are that the Welsh
Ministers consider that, on the Repayment Date, the borrower—

5.a

is not in breach of any obligation contained in any agreement for a student
loan or in any regulations made under section 22 of the 1998 Act,

5.b

does not have outstanding penalties, costs, expenses or charges in relation to
such a loan pursuant to any such agreement or regulations, and

5.c

has not received a cancellation (including a cancellation of £0.00) under one
of the Regulations listed in the Schedule of any of their liability for
payment in respect of a loan received from the Welsh Ministers.

### Specified Amount

6

The Specified Amount is the lesser of—

6.a

£1,500, or

6.b

the Outstanding Liability.

### Outstanding Liability

7

7.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the Outstanding Liability is the total amount
considered to be payable by the borrower on the Repayment Date in respect of
any loan for living costs, but does not include any interest accrued or any
penalties, costs, expenses or charges incurred in respect of any such loan.

7.2

For the purposes of regulation 9, the Outstanding Liability is the total
amount considered to be payable by the borrower on the Satisfaction Date in
respect of any loan for living costs, but does not include any interest
accrued or any penalties, costs, expenses or charges incurred in respect of
any such loan.

7.3

For the purposes of calculating the Outstanding Liability in paragraphs (1)
and (2), the amount considered to be payable by the borrower is calculated in
accordance with regulations made pursuant to section 22 of the 1998 Act .

### Cancellation

8

In the Circumstances in regulation 5, the Welsh Ministers must cancel the
Specified Amount with effect from the Repayment Date.

9

If any of the Circumstances in regulation 5 are not satisfied on the Repayment
Date, but they become satisfied at a later date, the Welsh Ministers may
cancel the Specified Amount with effect from the date that they consider the
Circumstances to have been satisfied (“the Satisfaction Date”).

Jeremy Miles Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the Welsh
Ministers 2 May 2023

Regulation 5

1

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2010 .

2

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2011 .

3

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2012 .

4

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2013 .

5

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2014 .

6

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2015 .

7

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2016 .

8

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2017 .

9

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2018 .

10

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2019 .

11

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2020 .

12

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2021 .

13

The Cancellation of Student Loans for Living Costs Liability (Wales)
Regulations 2022 .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations govern the student loan liability of full-time students
who receive loans for living costs from the Welsh Ministers in respect of the
academic year 2023/2024.

  These Regulations provide for up to £1,500 of a borrower’s living costs loan
liability to be cancelled in certain circumstances, with effect from the day
after the date on which their first loan repayment is considered to have been
received.

  The Welsh Ministers Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessment was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with these
Regulations.

