Title: The Representation of the People (Postal and Proxy Voting etc.) (Amendment) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-06-28
Description: These Regulations make provision related to the implementation of section 3 (restriction of period for which person can apply for a postal vote) and section 6 (limit on the number of electors for whom a proxy can vote) of the Elections Act 2022 (c. 37) (“EA 2022”), as well as amending provisions related to the processing of applications for electoral registration under section 10ZC of the Representation of the People Act 1983 (c. 2) (“the 1983 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1147

## The Representation of the People (Postal and Proxy Voting etc.) (Amendment) Regulations 2023

    Council Tax, England       Local Government, England       Police, England
And Wales       Representation Of The People       Town And Country Planning,
England

  Made   25th October 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2) to (4)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by the provisions specified in Schedule 1 to these Regulations.
The Secretary of State has consulted—     a     the Electoral Commission, in
accordance with section 53(5)(a) of the Representation of the People Act 1983
, paragraph 16(5) of Schedule 4B to the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ,
section 52ZQ(6) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , section 9HE(4) of
the Local Government Act 2000 , section 7(1) and (2)(e), (hc) and (k) of the
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 , and paragraph 12(4) of
Schedule 5B to the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 ,         b     the Information Commissioner and such other persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate, in accordance with section
53(5)(b) and (c) of the Representation of the People Act 1983,         c
the Scottish Ministers, in accordance with section 15(5C) of the
Representation of the People Act 1985 , and         d     the Welsh Ministers,
in accordance with section 15(5D) of the Representation of the People Act 1985
.               A draft of these Regulations has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament in accordance with
section 201(2) of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , section 333(3A)
of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , section 52ZQ(7) of the Local
Government Finance Act 1992, section 105(6) of the Local Government Act 2000 ,
section 117(2) of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction
Act 2009 , section 154(2)(b) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility
Act 2011  and section 21(6) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 .

### Introduction


#### Citation, commencement, extent, transitional provisions and savings


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Representation of the People (Postal and
Proxy Voting etc.) (Amendment) Regulations 2023.

1.2

Subject to paragraph (3), these Regulations come into force on 31st October
2023.

1.3

The following provisions come into force on 31st January 2024—

1.3.a

regulations  6(b) ,  11(b) ,  12 ,  13  and  14(3) , (5), (7) and (9);

1.3.b

regulation  15 , except for paragraph (5)(a)(i), (b) and (c);

1.3.c

regulation  16 , except for paragraph (5)(a)(i), (b) and (c);

1.3.d

regulation  17(3)(b) , (5)(a) to (c) except paragraph (5)(b)(i)(bb), and (6)
to (8);

1.3.e

regulation  18 , except for paragraph (5)(a)(i), (b) and (c);

1.3.f

in regulation  19 , paragraphs (4), (7)(b), (16)(b) and, except so far as it
substitutes Form J in Parts 1 and 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations,
paragraph (18);

1.3.g

regulation  20 ;

1.3.h

regulation  21 , except so far as it substitutes Form 1 in Schedule 3 to the
Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021 ;

1.3.i

in Schedule 2, paragraphs 4(1), 6, 8(1), 9(1), 11(1), 12, 13(1), 15(1), 16,
17(1), 19(2), 20, 21(1), 23(1), 28(1), 29, 30(1), 32(1), 34(2), 37(1), 41(1)
and 42(1).

1.4

This Part extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

1.5

In Parts 2 to 4—

1.5.a

the amendments made by regulation  19(13)  and (15) extend to England and
Wales and Scotland;

1.5.b

otherwise, any amendment made has the same extent as the provision amended.

1.6

Schedule 2 (transitional provisions and savings) has effect.

### Amendment of the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001


#### Introduction to Part 2


2

The Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001  are
amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of Part 1 (general, interpretation and miscellaneous)


3

3.1

Part 1 (general, interpretation and miscellaneous) is amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 3 (interpretation)—

3.2.a

in paragraph (1)—

3.2.a.i

for the definition of “digital service” substitute—

      “ digital service ” means the Individual Electoral Registration Digital
Service, which is the digital service provided by the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities for (amongst other purposes) the purpose
of—         processing online applications under sections 10ZC and 10ZD of the
1983 Act  and online relevant absent voting applications,           verifying
information under regulations 29ZA and 56B, and           data matching under
regulation 32ZBB in respect of the annual canvass for a register of
parliamentary electors or local government electors in England or Wales;

;

3.2.a.ii

after the definition of “registration officer” insert—

      “ relevant absent voting application ” has the meaning given in
paragraph 1A(7)(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to the 1983 Act ;

;

3.2.b

after paragraph (3A) insert—

3.2.b.3B

A document provided in accordance with regulation 51(9) or 56C may be
transmitted by an applicant to a registration officer by electronic means.

.

3.3

In regulation 5 (communication of applications, notices etc.)—

3.3.a

in paragraph (1), after “notice” insert  “, relevant attestation” ;

3.3.b

after paragraph (2), insert—

3.3.b.3

In paragraph (1), “ relevant attestation ” means an attestation under
regulation 56C(6).

.

3.4

In regulation 6 (electronic signatures and related certificates) after
paragraph (3) insert—

3.4.4

This regulation does not apply in relation to a relevant absent voting
application, for which the general requirements are set out in regulation 51.

.

#### Amendment of Part 3 (registration)


4

4.1

Part 3 (registration) is amended as follows.

4.2

In regulation 26 (applications for registration)—

4.2.a

in paragraph (11), after “receives” insert  “, subject to paragraph (12),” ;

4.2.b

after paragraph (11) insert—

4.2.b.12

Where an application made through the digital service in accordance with
paragraph (9) includes the applicant’s national insurance number the Secretary
of State—

4.2.b.12.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

4.2.b.12.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

.

4.3

In regulation 29ZB (processing of information provided in connection with an
application under section 10ZC or 10ZD)—

4.3.a

in paragraph (2)(a), at the end insert  “transmitted to the registration
officer by the Secretary of State” ;

4.3.b

in paragraph (5)—

4.3.b.i

omit the “or” after sub-paragraph (a);

4.3.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

4.3.b.ii.aa

in the case of information disclosed under regulation 29ZA, for the purposes
of determining—

4.3.b.ii.aa.i

a relevant absent voting application made by the same applicant where that
information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part the relevant
absent voting application by virtue of regulation 51(7)(a),

4.3.b.ii.aa.ii

an application for an absent vote made under Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the
Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012  by the same applicant
where that information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part
that application by virtue of paragraph 11(5A)(a) of Schedule 2 to that Order,

4.3.b.ii.aa.iii

an application for absent signing made under Part 4 of the Recall of MPs Act
2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016  by the same applicant where that
information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part that
application by virtue of regulation 60(6A)(a) of those Regulations, or

4.3.b.ii.aa.iv

an identity document application, as defined by regulation 3(1) of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 , made by the same applicant where that
information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part that
application by virtue of regulation 5(2) of those Regulations, or

.

#### Amendment of Part 4 (absent voters)


5

5.1

Part 4 (absent voters) is amended as follows.

5.2

In regulation 50 (interpretation of Part 4), after the definition of “allotted
polling station” insert—

      “ the maximum period ” means the period specified in paragraph 3(1A)(a)
or (1B)(a) of Schedule 4 .

.

5.3

In regulation 51 (general requirements for applications for an absent vote)—

5.3.a

in paragraph (2), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

5.3.a.aa

for a relevant absent voting application, the applicant’s national insurance
number or, if they are not able to provide that information, the reason why
they are not able to do so;

;

5.3.b

in paragraph (4), after “indefinite period” insert  “, the maximum period” ;

5.3.c

after paragraph (6) insert—

5.3.c.7

Where, by virtue of arrangements made by the Secretary of State, a relevant
absent voting application may be made through the digital service—

5.3.c.7.a

the Secretary of State may complete the application in part using information
provided by the applicant as part of an application, or partially completed
application, under section 10ZC or 10ZD of the 1983 Act for registration in,
or alteration of, a register of electors made through or completed using the
digital service;

5.3.c.7.b

where the application is required to contain a signature, the application must
contain a compliant photograph or electronic scan of the applicant’s
signature;

5.3.c.7.c

the Secretary of State must—

5.3.c.7.c.i

request that the applicant provide their most recent previous name (if they
have one), and

5.3.c.7.c.ii

provide an explanation of the purpose for which the information will be used.

5.3.c.8

In paragraph (7)(b), “ compliant photograph or electronic scan of the
applicant’s signature ” means—

5.3.c.8.a

the signature contained in the photograph or electronic scan complies with the
requirements of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (3A), and

5.3.c.8.b

the photograph or electronic scan of the signature is sufficiently clear and
unambiguous so as to comply with the requirements of paragraph (3A).

5.3.c.9

Where an applicant is unable to provide a national insurance number in
accordance with paragraph (2)(aa), the applicant may provide as part of the
application a copy of any of the documents listed in regulation 56C(2) to (4).

5.3.c.10

The Secretary of State must send to the registration officer—

5.3.c.10.a

subject to paragraph (11), any relevant absent voting application the
Secretary of State receives,

5.3.c.10.b

the applicant’s previous name (if any provided),

5.3.c.10.c

any copy documentation provided by the applicant in accordance with paragraph
(9), and

5.3.c.10.d

a reference number unique to that application.

5.3.c.11

Where a relevant absent voting application made through the digital service in
accordance with paragraph (7) includes the applicant’s national insurance
number the Secretary of State—

5.3.c.11.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

5.3.c.11.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

.

5.4

In regulation 52 (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy)—

5.4.a

in paragraph (1), omit “together with his family relationship, if any, with
the applicant,”;

5.4.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

5.4.b.1ZA

If the application for the appointment of a proxy is for the purposes of
voting by proxy at a local government election in Wales, the application must
also state the family relationship, if any, of the proxy with the applicant.

.

5.5

In regulation 55 (additional requirements for applications for a proxy vote in
respect of a particular election), after paragraph (5) insert—

5.5.5A

Where an application under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4  is made after 5pm on
the sixth day before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made
because the circumstances set out in paragraph (3F)(a) of regulation 56 apply,
the application must (in addition to providing any other information required
by this Part) state that it is being made because of those circumstances.

.

5.6

In regulation 55B (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular parliamentary election or local
government election in England: grounds relating to voter identification)—

5.6.a

in paragraph (1), for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraphs (2) and (2A)” ;

5.6.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

5.6.b.2A

This regulation does not apply where regulation 56(3D) applies to an
application by virtue only of the circumstances set out in paragraph (3F).

.

5.7

In regulation 56 (closing date for applications)—

5.7.a

in paragraph (3D), after “voter identification” insert  “or in the
circumstances set out in paragraph (3F)” ;

5.7.b

after paragraph (3E) insert—

5.7.b.3F

The circumstances are that—

5.7.b.3F.a

the applicant submitted the application because an earlier application
submitted by that applicant under paragraph 3(2) or 6(7) of Schedule 4 is to
be disregarded for the purposes of the election referred to in paragraph (3D)
because that earlier application—

5.7.b.3F.a.i

was submitted prior to the deadline of 5pm on the sixth day before the date of
the poll at the election referred to in paragraph (3D),

5.7.b.3F.a.ii

was submitted via the digital service, and

5.7.b.3F.a.iii

was not received by the registration officer until after the deadline of 5pm
on the sixth day before the date of the poll at the election referred to in
paragraph (3D) due to a technical defect in the digital service, or

5.7.b.3F.b

the application referred to in paragraph (3D) meets the conditions specified
in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-paragraph (a).

.

5.8

After regulation 56A (grounds relating to voter identification) insert—

########## Verification of information provided in a relevant absent voting application


5.8.56B

5.8.56B.1

On receipt of a relevant absent voting application made otherwise than through
the digital service, a registration officer must disclose the applicant’s name
or names, address, date of birth and national insurance number (“the first
stage information”) to the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities in such format and through such an infrastructure system as the
Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may have notified
to the registration officer in writing.

5.8.56B.2

Following receipt of the first stage information from the registration officer
or, in the case of an application made through or partially completed using
the digital service, from an applicant, the Secretary of State for Levelling
Up, Housing and Communities may disclose the first stage information to the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.

5.8.56B.3

Where the first stage information has been disclosed to the Secretary of State
for Work and Pensions under paragraph (2), the Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions may compare it against—

5.8.56B.3.a

the name, address, date of birth and national insurance number of individuals
appearing in the following types of data kept by the Secretary of State—

5.8.56B.3.a.i

data kept for the purposes of functions relating to social security (including
such information kept on behalf of the Department for Social Development), and

5.8.56B.3.a.ii

data relating to working tax credit, child tax credit and child benefit (being
information kept on behalf of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs), and

5.8.56B.3.b

any other information contained in such types of data which relates to the
information disclosed under paragraph (2).

5.8.56B.4

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the first stage information (“the second stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

5.8.56B.5

On receipt of the second stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may disclose that information—

5.8.56B.5.a

to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, or

5.8.56B.5.b

to the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in the
case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates.

5.8.56B.6

Paragraph (3) applies to the second stage information where it has been
disclosed to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under paragraph
(5)(a) as it applies to the first stage information disclosed under paragraph
(2).

5.8.56B.7

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the second stage information (“the third stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

5.8.56B.8

On receipt of the third stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may—

5.8.56B.8.a

compare the third stage information against the information provided in the
relevant absent voting application, and

5.8.56B.8.b

notify the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in
the case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates, as to
whether the comparison in sub-paragraph (a) resulted in a match.

5.8.56B.9

The registration officer must take into account any information disclosed by,
or notification received from, the Secretary of State for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities in accordance with this regulation when determining
the application.

5.8.56B.10

This regulation does not apply in relation to an application under paragraph
4(2) of Schedule 4—

5.8.56B.10.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made, and

5.8.56B.10.b

where regulation 56(3A) or (3D) applies.

5.8.56B.11

In paragraph (1)—

5.8.56B.11.a

“ infrastructure system ” has the meaning given in Schedule 3A to the
Communications Act 2003 ;

5.8.56B.11.b

the reference to the applicant’s address is a reference to the address
contained in the application in accordance with regulation 51(2)(b).

########## Power to request additional evidence in relation to relevant absent voting applications where registration officer considers it necessary


5.8.56C

5.8.56C.1

This regulation applies where, upon receipt of a relevant absent voting
application, a registration officer considers additional evidence is necessary
to verify the identity of the applicant.

5.8.56C.2

The registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one
of the following documents—

5.8.56C.2.a

the applicant’s passport;

5.8.56C.2.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area;

5.8.56C.2.c

the applicant’s biometric immigration document issued in the United Kingdom in
accordance with regulations made under section 5 of the Borders Act 2007 ;

5.8.56C.2.d

the applicant’s electoral identity card issued in Northern Ireland;

5.8.56C.2.e

the applicant’s photocard driving licence granted in the United Kingdom or
driving licence granted by a Crown Dependency, which bears a photograph of the
applicant.

5.8.56C.3

Where an applicant is not able to give one of the documents in paragraph (2),
the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of—

5.8.56C.3.a

one of the following documents, which, except in relation to paragraph (vii),
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies—

5.8.56C.3.a.i

the applicant’s birth certificate;

5.8.56C.3.a.ii

the applicant’s marriage or civil partnership certificate;

5.8.56C.3.a.iii

the applicant’s adoption certificate;

5.8.56C.3.a.iv

the applicant’s firearms certificate granted under the Firearms Act 1968 ;

5.8.56C.3.a.v

the record of a decision on bail made in respect of the applicant in
accordance with section 5(1) of the Bail Act 1976 ;

5.8.56C.3.a.vi

the applicant’s driving licence, which is not in the form of a photocard;

5.8.56C.3.a.vii

the applicant’s driving licence granted other than in the United Kingdom or
Crown Dependencies, which bears a photograph of the applicant and which must
be valid for at least 12 months from the date the applicant entered the United
Kingdom, and

5.8.56C.3.b

two other documents, each of which may be either from sub-paragraph (a) or
from paragraph (4).

5.8.56C.4

Where the applicant is not able to give documents in accordance with paragraph
(3), the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy,
or where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of
four documents, each of which may be any of the following kinds of evidence
and which must bear the applicant’s full name—

5.8.56C.4.a

a financial statement, including but not limited to—

5.8.56C.4.a.i

a mortgage statement;

5.8.56C.4.a.ii

a bank or building society statement or a letter from a bank or building
society confirming that the applicant has opened an account with that bank or
building society;

5.8.56C.4.a.iii

a credit card statement;

5.8.56C.4.a.iv

a pension statement;

5.8.56C.4.b

a council tax demand letter or statement;

5.8.56C.4.c

a utility bill;

5.8.56C.4.d

a Form P45 or Form P60 issued to the applicant by their employer or former
employer;

5.8.56C.4.e

a statement of benefits or entitlement to benefits, such as a statement of
child benefit, within the meaning of section 141 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , or a letter confirming that the
applicant is entitled to housing benefit, within the meaning of section 130 of
that Act .

5.8.56C.5

Where the applicant is registered, or has applied to be registered, in
pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration—

5.8.56C.5.a

paragraph (3) applies as if, in sub-paragraph (a)(vii), the words from “and
which must” to “Kingdom” were omitted;

5.8.56C.5.b

paragraph (4) applies as if after “kinds of evidence” there were inserted  “,
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies” .

5.8.56C.6

If an applicant is unable to give the documentary evidence required under
paragraphs (2) to (4), the registration officer may require that the applicant
give an attestation which must—

5.8.56C.6.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application,

5.8.56C.6.b

be in writing and signed by a qualifying attestor,

5.8.56C.6.c

state the qualifying attestor’s full name, date of birth, occupation,
residential address and (if different) the address in respect of which the
qualifying attestor is registered as an elector,

5.8.56C.6.d

state—

5.8.56C.6.d.i

where the qualifying attestor is registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, the attestor’s British passport number together with
its date and place of issue;

5.8.56C.6.d.ii

otherwise—

5.8.56C.6.d.ii.aa

where the qualifying attestor is registered in respect of an address in
Northern Ireland and has been allocated a digital registration number in
accordance with section 10B of the 1983 Act (register of electors in Northern
Ireland: digital registration number) , that digital registration number;

5.8.56C.6.d.ii.bb

in all other cases, the qualifying attestor’s electoral number,

5.8.56C.6.e

include an explanation as to the qualifying attestor’s ability to confirm that
the applicant is the person named in the application, including (but not
limited to) the qualifying attestor’s connection to the applicant and the
length of time that that connection has existed,

5.8.56C.6.f

include—

5.8.56C.6.f.i

an indication that the qualifying attestor is aware of section 13D(1) of the
1983 Act (offence of provision of false information to a registration officer)
, and

5.8.56C.6.f.ii

a declaration by the qualifying attestor that all information provided in the
attestation is true, and

5.8.56C.6.g

state the date on which it is made.

5.8.56C.7

In paragraph (6), a “qualifying attestor” is a person—

5.8.56C.7.a

where the applicant is or is to be registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, who is aged 18 or over,

5.8.56C.7.b

who is not the spouse, civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister,
child or grandchild of the applicant,

5.8.56C.7.c

who is registered as an elector and, except where the applicant is or is to be
registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration, who is
registered as an elector in a local authority area in England or Wales,

5.8.56C.7.d

except where the person is registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration, whom the registration officer is satisfied is of good standing in
the community, and

5.8.56C.7.e

who has not already signed a relevant identity attestation for two other
applicants since, whichever is the later,—

5.8.56C.7.e.i

the date on which the revised register in which the qualifying attestor’s name
appears was last published under section 13(1) of the 1983 Act ;

5.8.56C.7.e.ii

the date on which a notice specifying the qualifying attestor’s entry in the
register was issued under (as the case may be) section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B or
13BC of that Act  (and if there has been more than one such notice, the date
on which the last one was issued).

5.8.56C.8

In paragraph (7)(e), a “relevant identity attestation” is an attestation
provided in accordance with—

5.8.56C.8.a

paragraph (6);

5.8.56C.8.b

regulation 26B(6);

5.8.56C.8.c

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the Representation of the People (Scotland)
Regulations 2001 ;

5.8.56C.8.d

paragraph 16C(5) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections
Order 2012;

5.8.56C.8.e

regulation 72B(6) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations
2016;

5.8.56C.8.f

regulation 7(6) of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

5.8.56C.9

Paragraphs (2) to (6) do not apply where the applicant is registered, or has
applied to be registered, in a register of parliamentary electors or a
register of local government electors in England in pursuance of the following
declarations—

5.8.56C.9.a

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a Crown servant or
the spouse or civil partner of a Crown servant;

5.8.56C.9.b

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a member of the
forces;

5.8.56C.9.c

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is the spouse or civil
partner of a member of the forces.

5.8.56C.10

In the case of an application to which paragraph (9)(a) or (c) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or where
the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one of the
following documents, which has been certified by a Crown servant or British
Council employee or an officer of the forces, who is not the applicant’s
spouse or civil partner—

5.8.56C.10.a

the applicant’s passport;

5.8.56C.10.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area.

5.8.56C.11

In the case of an application to which paragraph (9)(b) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give an attestation which
must—

5.8.56C.11.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application,

5.8.56C.11.b

be in writing and signed by an officer of the forces who is not the spouse,
civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, child or grandchild of
the applicant,

5.8.56C.11.c

state the full name, address and rank of the person signing the attestation
and the service (whether naval, military or air forces) in which they serve,
and

5.8.56C.11.d

state the date on which it is made.

5.8.56C.12

In this regulation—

      “ Crown Dependency ” means the Bailiwick of Jersey, the Bailiwick of
Guernsey or the Isle of Man;           “ member of the forces ” has the same
meaning as in section 59(1) of the 1983 Act ;           “ officer of the
forces ” means a member of the forces who is an officer.

5.8.56C.13

This regulation does not apply in relation to an application under paragraph
4(2) of Schedule 4—

5.8.56C.13.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made, and

5.8.56C.13.b

where regulation 56(3A) or (3D) applies.

########## Processing of information provided in connection with a relevant absent voting application


5.8.56D

5.8.56D.1

If a person provides an original document under regulation 56C, the
registration officer must make a copy of that document and return the original
document to the person who provided it.

5.8.56D.2

In respect of any relevant absent voting application, the registration officer
must retain until the application has been determined—

5.8.56D.2.a

the application form or, in the case of an application made through the
digital service, the information contained in the application transmitted to
the registration officer by the Secretary of State;

5.8.56D.2.b

any other information or documents provided to the registration officer in
connection with the application or, in the case of original documents which
are returned under paragraph (1), a copy of such documents.

5.8.56D.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the registration officer may retain the application
form, information and documents in paragraph (2) after the application has
been determined but, if they do so, must delete the applicant’s national
insurance number from the application form, information and documents in
paragraph (2) by no later than the date which is 13 months from the date on
which the registration officer determined the relevant absent voting
application.

5.8.56D.4

The requirement to delete the national insurance number in paragraph (3) does
not apply where the application, information and documents in paragraph (2)
are required for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

5.8.56D.5

Information disclosed under regulation 56B must not be disclosed to any other
person, except—

5.8.56D.5.a

for the purpose of determining the relevant absent voting application in
connection with which the information was disclosed, or

5.8.56D.5.b

for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

5.8.56D.6

A person who discloses information in breach of paragraph (5) is guilty of an
offence and liable—

5.8.56D.6.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or to a fine (or both);

5.8.56D.6.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, or to a fine (or both).

5.8.56D.7

Any information disclosed under regulation 56B must be processed in accordance
with any requirements as to the processing of information that may have been
imposed by the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities in
writing in advance of that processing, including requirements as to the
transfer, storage, destruction and security of that information.

5.8.56D.8

In this regulation, “ copy ” includes an electronic copy.

.

5.9

In regulation 57 (grant or refusal of applications)—

5.9.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

5.9.a.1A

Where a registration officer grants an application to vote by post at a
parliamentary election or a local government election in England, the
notification under paragraph (1) must include—

5.9.a.1A.a

where the postal vote entitlement is for a particular election, the date of
the poll for which the elector’s entitlement to vote by post has been granted;

5.9.a.1A.b

otherwise, the date on which the elector’s entitlement to vote by post ends.

;

5.9.b

in paragraph (3), at the end insert  “in respect of the appointment of a proxy
for the purpose of voting at a local government election or local government
elections in Wales” ;

5.9.c

after paragraph (3) insert—

5.9.c.3A

The form of proxy paper in Form E1 is prescribed for the purposes of paragraph
6(9) of Schedule 4 in respect of the appointment of a proxy for the purpose of
voting—

5.9.c.3A.a

at a parliamentary election, or at parliamentary elections;

5.9.c.3A.b

at a local government election, or at local government elections, in England.

;

5.9.d

after paragraph (6) insert—

5.9.d.7

Paragraphs (8) to (10) apply where—

5.9.d.7.a

an application under Schedule 4 relates to voting at a parliamentary election
or at a local government election in England, and

5.9.d.7.b

either—

5.9.d.7.b.i

paragraph (2) of regulation 51AA applies to that application, or would have
applied if paragraph (3) of that regulation were ignored, or

5.9.d.7.b.ii

paragraph (1) of regulation 51B applies to that application, or would have
applied if paragraph (2) of that regulation were ignored.

5.9.d.8

A notification under paragraph (1) or (4A) to one of the following types of
applicants must also include a statement that ballot papers will be sent to
the postal ballot delivery address—

5.9.d.8.a

an applicant registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration;

5.9.d.8.b

an applicant registered in pursuance of a service declaration;

5.9.d.8.c

an applicant registered in pursuance of a declaration of local connection
(within the meaning of section 7B of the 1983 Act );

5.9.d.8.d

an applicant who is a merchant seaman (within the meaning of section 6 of the
1983 Act );

5.9.d.8.e

an applicant who has an anonymous entry.

5.9.d.9

Where sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) of paragraph (8) do not apply to the
applicant, the registration officer must, in addition to notifying the
applicant in accordance with paragraphs (1), (4), (4A) or (5), notify the
applicant in writing that—

5.9.d.9.a

the application has been granted, refused or disregarded, and

5.9.d.9.b

where the application has been granted, ballot papers will be sent to the
postal ballot delivery address.

5.9.d.10

A notification under paragraph (9) must be delivered to—

5.9.d.10.a

where paragraph (7)(b)(ii) applies and the notification is to be delivered to
a person shown as voting by post in the record kept under paragraph 7(6) of
Schedule 4 , the address shown in that record;

5.9.d.10.b

otherwise—

5.9.d.10.b.i

the address stated in the application in accordance with regulation 51(2)(b),
or

5.9.d.10.b.ii

the proxy’s address stated in the application in accordance with regulation
51(2)(c).

5.9.d.11

In paragraphs (8) and (9), the “ postal ballot delivery address ” means—

5.9.d.11.a

where paragraph (7)(b)(i) applies, the address stated in the application in
accordance with regulation 51(2)(d);

5.9.d.11.b

where paragraph (7)(b)(ii) applies, the different address described in
regulation 51B(1).

.

5.10

After regulation 60 (inquiries by registration officer) insert—

########## Requirement to notify certain electors and proxies that postal vote entitlement is to end


5.10.60ZA

5.10.60ZA.1

This regulation applies in respect of an elector or proxy who remains entitled
to vote by post at a parliamentary election or at a local government election
in England by virtue of an entitlement which was granted for the maximum
period (“ the relevant person ”).

5.10.60ZA.2

The registration officer must, before the end of the maximum period, send to
the relevant person—

5.10.60ZA.2.a

a notice informing the relevant person of the date on which the relevant
person’s entitlement to vote by post is to end, and

5.10.60ZA.2.b

information about how to make a fresh application to vote by post (as elector
or, as the case may be, as proxy).

.

5.11

In regulation 60A (requirement to provide fresh signatures at five yearly
intervals), before paragraph (1) insert—

5.11.A1

This regulation does not apply to an elector or proxy so far as that elector
or proxy remains entitled to vote by post at a parliamentary election or at a
local government election in England.

.

5.12

In regulation 61 (records and lists kept under Schedule 4), in paragraph (7)
after “regulation 56(3A)” insert  “or (3D)” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (forms)


6

In Schedule 3 (forms)—

6.a

in the arrangement of forms—

6.a.i

in the entry for Form E, after “proxy paper” insert  “(local government
elections in Wales)” ;

6.a.ii

after that entry insert—

Form E1: Proxy paper (parliamentary elections and local government elections
in England)

;

6.b

for Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person) and
Form B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person) substitute the corresponding forms as set out in Schedule 3;

6.c

in Form E—

6.c.i

omit “Constituency”;

6.c.ii

omit “*[” in the first place it occurs;

6.c.iii

omit “]” in the first place it occurs;

6.c.iv

omit “*[who qualifies as an overseas elector in respect of the above
constituency]”;

6.c.v

for “*[parliamentary] *[local government]” in both places it occurs substitute
“local government” ;

6.c.vi

for “*[constituency] *[electoral area]” in both places it occurs substitute
“electoral area” ;

6.c.vii

in the section titled “Your right to vote as proxy”, in paragraph (2), omit
“parliamentary, or”;

6.d

after Form E, insert new Form E1 as set out in Schedule 3.

### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001


#### Introduction to Part 3


7

The Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001 are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of Part 1 (general, interpretation and miscellaneous)


8

8.1

Part 1 (general, interpretation and miscellaneous) is amended as follows.

8.2

In regulation 3 (interpretation)—

8.2.a

in paragraph (1)—

8.2.a.i

for the definition of “digital service” substitute—

      “ digital service ” means the Individual Electoral Registration Digital
Service, which is the digital service provided by the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities for (amongst other purposes) the purpose
of—         processing online applications under sections 10ZC and 10ZD of the
1983 Act and online relevant absent voting applications,           verifying
information under regulations 29ZA and 56B, and           data matching under
regulation 32ZBB in respect of the annual canvass for a register;

;

8.2.a.ii

after the definition of “registration officer” insert—

      “ relevant absent voting application ” has the meaning given in
paragraph 1A(7)(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to the 1983 Act;

;

8.2.b

after paragraph (3A) insert—

8.2.b.3B

A document provided in accordance with regulation 51(9) or 56C may be
transmitted by an applicant to a registration officer by electronic means.

.

8.3

In regulation 5 (communication of applications, notices etc.)—

8.3.a

in paragraph (1), after “notice” insert  “, relevant attestation” ;

8.3.b

after paragraph (2), insert—

8.3.b.3

In paragraph (1), “ relevant attestation ” means an attestation under
regulation 56C(6).

.

8.4

In regulation 6 (electronic signatures and related certificates) after
paragraph (3) insert—

8.4.4

This regulation does not apply in relation to a relevant absent voting
application, for which the general requirements are set out in regulation 51.

.

#### Amendment of Part 3 (registration)


9

9.1

Part 3 (registration) is amended as follows.

9.2

In regulation 26 (applications for registration)—

9.2.a

in paragraph (11), after “receives” insert  “, subject to paragraph (12),” ;

9.2.b

after paragraph (11) insert—

9.2.b.12

Where an application made through the digital service in accordance with
paragraph (9) includes the applicant’s national insurance number the Secretary
of State—

9.2.b.12.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

9.2.b.12.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

.

9.3

In regulation 29ZB (processing of information provided in connection with an
application under section 10ZC or 10ZD)—

9.3.a

in paragraph (2)(a), at the end insert  “transmitted to the registration
officer by the Secretary of State” ;

9.3.b

in paragraph (5)—

9.3.b.i

omit the “or” after sub-paragraph (a);

9.3.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

9.3.b.ii.aa

in the case of information disclosed under regulation 29ZA, for the purposes
of determining—

9.3.b.ii.aa.i

a relevant absent voting application made by the same applicant where that
information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part the relevant
absent voting application by virtue of regulation 51(7)(a),

9.3.b.ii.aa.ii

an application for an absent vote made under Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the
Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012 by the same applicant where
that information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part that
application by virtue of paragraph 11(5A)(a) of Schedule 2 to that Order,

9.3.b.ii.aa.iii

an application for absent signing made under Part 4 of the Recall of MPs Act
2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016 by the same applicant where that
information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part that
application by virtue of regulation 60(6A)(a) of those Regulations, or

9.3.b.ii.aa.iv

an identity document application, as defined by regulation 3(1) of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022, made by the same applicant where that
information is used by the Secretary of State to complete in part that
application by virtue of regulation 5(2) of those Regulations, or

.

#### Amendment of Part 4 (absent voters)


10

10.1

Part 4 (absent voters) is amended as follows.

10.2

In regulation 50 (interpretation of Part 4), after the definition of “allotted
polling station” insert—

      “ the maximum period ” means the period specified in paragraph 3(1A)(a)
or (1B)(a) of Schedule 4.

.

10.3

In regulation 51 (general requirements for applications for an absent vote)—

10.3.a

in paragraph (2), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

10.3.a.aa

for a relevant absent voting application, the applicant’s national insurance
number or, if they are not able to provide that information, the reason why
they are not able to do so;

;

10.3.b

in paragraph (4), after “indefinite period” insert  “, the maximum period” ;

10.3.c

after paragraph (6) insert—

10.3.c.7

Where, by virtue of arrangements made by the Secretary of State, a relevant
absent voting application may be made through the digital service—

10.3.c.7.a

the Secretary of State may complete the application in part using information
provided by the applicant as part of an application, or partially completed
application, under section 10ZC or 10ZD of the 1983 Act for registration in,
or alteration of, a register of electors made through or completed using the
digital service;

10.3.c.7.b

where the application is required to contain a signature, the application must
contain a compliant photograph or electronic scan of the applicant’s
signature;

10.3.c.7.c

the Secretary of State must—

10.3.c.7.c.i

request that the applicant provide their most recent previous name (if they
have one), and

10.3.c.7.c.ii

provide an explanation of the purpose for which the information will be used.

10.3.c.8

In paragraph (7)(b), “ compliant photograph or electronic scan of the
applicant’s signature ” means—

10.3.c.8.a

the signature contained in the photograph or electronic scan complies with the
requirements of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (3A), and

10.3.c.8.b

the photograph or electronic scan of the signature is sufficiently clear and
unambiguous so as to comply with the requirements of paragraph (3A).

10.3.c.9

Where an applicant is unable to provide a national insurance number in
accordance with paragraph (2)(aa), the applicant may provide as part of the
application a copy of any of the documents listed in regulation 56C(2) to (4).

10.3.c.10

The Secretary of State must send to the registration officer—

10.3.c.10.a

subject to paragraph (11), any relevant absent voting application the
Secretary of State receives,

10.3.c.10.b

the applicant’s previous name (if any provided),

10.3.c.10.c

any copy documentation provided by the applicant in accordance with paragraph
(9), and

10.3.c.10.d

a reference number unique to that application.

10.3.c.11

Where a relevant absent voting application made through the digital service in
accordance with paragraph (7) includes the applicant’s national insurance
number the Secretary of State—

10.3.c.11.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

10.3.c.11.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

.

10.4

In regulation 52 (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy)—

10.4.a

in paragraph (1), omit “together with his family relationship, if any, with
the applicant,”;

10.4.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

10.4.b.1ZA

If the application for the appointment of a proxy is for the purposes of
voting at a local government election, the application must also state the
family relationship if any, of the proxy with the applicant.

.

10.5

In regulation 55 (additional requirements for applications for a proxy vote in
respect of a particular election), after paragraph (4) insert—

10.5.5

Where an application under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4 is made after 5pm on
the sixth day before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made
because the circumstances set out in paragraph (3F)(a) of regulation 56 apply,
the application must (in addition to providing any other information required
by this Part) state that it is being made because of those circumstances.

.

10.6

In regulation 55B (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular parliamentary election: grounds relating
to voter identification)—

10.6.a

in paragraph (1), for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraphs (2) and (2A)” ;

10.6.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

10.6.b.2A

This regulation does not apply where regulation 56(3D) applies to an
application by virtue only of the circumstances set out in paragraph (3F).

.

10.7

In regulation 56 (closing date for applications)—

10.7.a

in paragraph (3D), after “voter identification” insert  “or in the
circumstances set out in paragraph (3F)” ;

10.7.b

after paragraph (3E) insert—

10.7.b.3F

The circumstances are that—

10.7.b.3F.a

the applicant submitted the application because an earlier application
submitted by that applicant under paragraph 3(2) or 6(7) of Schedule 4 is to
be disregarded for the purposes of the election referred to in paragraph (3D)
because that earlier application—

10.7.b.3F.a.i

was submitted prior to the deadline of 5pm on the sixth day before the date of
the poll at the election referred to in paragraph (3D),

10.7.b.3F.a.ii

was submitted via the digital service, and

10.7.b.3F.a.iii

was not received by the registration officer until after the deadline of 5pm
on the sixth day before the date of the poll at the election referred to in
paragraph (3D) due to a technical defect in the digital service, or

10.7.b.3F.b

the application referred to in paragraph (3D) meets the conditions specified
in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-paragraph (a).

.

10.8

After regulation 56A (grounds relating to voter identification) insert—

########## Verification of information provided in a relevant absent voting application


10.8.56B

10.8.56B.1

On receipt of a relevant absent voting application made otherwise than through
the digital service, a registration officer must disclose the applicant’s name
or names, address, date of birth and national insurance number (“the first
stage information”) to the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities in such format and through such an infrastructure system as the
Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may have notified
to the registration officer in writing.

10.8.56B.2

Following receipt of the first stage information from the registration officer
or, in the case of an application made through or partially completed using
the digital service, from an applicant, the Secretary of State for Levelling
Up, Housing and Communities may disclose the first stage information to the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.

10.8.56B.3

Where the first stage information has been disclosed to the Secretary of State
for Work and Pensions under paragraph (2), the Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions may compare it against—

10.8.56B.3.a

the name, address, date of birth and national insurance number of individuals
appearing in the following types of data kept by the Secretary of State—

10.8.56B.3.a.i

data kept for the purposes of functions relating to social security (including
such information kept on behalf of the Department for Social Development), and

10.8.56B.3.a.ii

data relating to working tax credit, child tax credit and child benefit (being
information kept on behalf of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs), and

10.8.56B.3.b

any other information contained in such types of data which relates to the
information disclosed under paragraph (2).

10.8.56B.4

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the first stage information (“the second stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

10.8.56B.5

On receipt of the second stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may disclose that information—

10.8.56B.5.a

to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, or

10.8.56B.5.b

to the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in the
case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates.

10.8.56B.6

Paragraph (3) applies to the second stage information where it has been
disclosed to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under paragraph
(5)(a) as it applies to the first stage information disclosed under paragraph
(2).

10.8.56B.7

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the second stage information (“the third stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

10.8.56B.8

On receipt of the third stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may—

10.8.56B.8.a

compare the third stage information against the information provided in the
relevant absent voting application, and

10.8.56B.8.b

notify the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in
the case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates, as to
whether the comparison in sub-paragraph (a) resulted in a match.

10.8.56B.9

The registration officer must take into account any information disclosed by,
or notification received from, the Secretary of State for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities in accordance with this regulation when determining
the application.

10.8.56B.10

This regulation does not apply in relation to an application under paragraph
4(2) of Schedule 4—

10.8.56B.10.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made, and

10.8.56B.10.b

where regulation 56(3A) or (3D) applies.

10.8.56B.11

In paragraph (1)—

10.8.56B.11.a

“ infrastructure system ” has the meaning given in Schedule 3A to the
Communications Act 2003;

10.8.56B.11.b

the reference to the applicant’s address is a reference to the address
contained in the application in accordance with regulation 51(2)(b).

########## Power to request additional evidence in relation to relevant absent voting applications where registration officer considers it necessary


10.8.56C

10.8.56C.1

This regulation applies where, upon receipt of a relevant absent voting
application, a registration officer considers additional evidence is necessary
to verify the identity of the applicant.

10.8.56C.2

The registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one
of the following documents—

10.8.56C.2.a

the applicant’s passport;

10.8.56C.2.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area;

10.8.56C.2.c

the applicant’s biometric immigration document issued in the United Kingdom in
accordance with regulations made under section 5 of the Borders Act 2007;

10.8.56C.2.d

the applicant’s electoral identity card issued in Northern Ireland;

10.8.56C.2.e

the applicant’s photocard driving licence granted in the United Kingdom or
driving licence granted by a Crown Dependency, which bears a photograph of the
applicant.

10.8.56C.3

Where an applicant is not able to give one of the documents in paragraph (2),
the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of—

10.8.56C.3.a

one of the following documents, which, except in relation to paragraph (vii),
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies—

10.8.56C.3.a.i

the applicant’s birth certificate;

10.8.56C.3.a.ii

the applicant’s marriage or civil partnership certificate;

10.8.56C.3.a.iii

the applicant’s adoption certificate;

10.8.56C.3.a.iv

the applicant’s firearms certificate granted under the Firearms Act 1968;

10.8.56C.3.a.v

the record of a decision on bail made in respect of the applicant in
accordance with section 5(1) of the Bail Act 1976;

10.8.56C.3.a.vi

the applicant’s driving licence, which is not in the form of a photocard;

10.8.56C.3.a.vii

the applicant’s driving licence granted other than in the United Kingdom or
Crown Dependencies, which bears a photograph of the applicant and which must
be valid for at least 12 months from the date the applicant entered the United
Kingdom, and

10.8.56C.3.b

two other documents, each of which may be either from sub-paragraph (a) or
from paragraph (4).

10.8.56C.4

Where the applicant is not able to give documents in accordance with paragraph
(3), the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy,
or where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of
four documents, each of which may be any of the following kinds of evidence
and which must bear the applicant’s full name—

10.8.56C.4.a

a financial statement, including but not limited to—

10.8.56C.4.a.i

a mortgage statement;

10.8.56C.4.a.ii

a bank or building society statement or a letter from a bank or building
society confirming that the applicant has opened an account with that bank or
building society;

10.8.56C.4.a.iii

a credit card statement;

10.8.56C.4.a.iv

a pension statement;

10.8.56C.4.b

a council tax demand letter or statement;

10.8.56C.4.c

a utility bill;

10.8.56C.4.d

a Form P45 or Form P60 issued to the applicant by their employer or former
employer;

10.8.56C.4.e

a statement of benefits or entitlement to benefits, such as a statement of
child benefit, within the meaning of section 141 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, or a letter confirming that the applicant
is entitled to housing benefit, within the meaning of section 130 of that Act.

10.8.56C.5

Where the applicant is registered, or has applied to be registered, in
pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration, paragraphs (3) and (4) apply
with the following modifications—

10.8.56C.5.a

paragraph (3) applies as if, in sub-paragraph (a)(vii), the words from “and
which must” to “Kingdom” were omitted;

10.8.56C.5.b

paragraph (4) applies as if after “kinds of evidence” there were inserted  “,
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies” .

10.8.56C.6

If an applicant is unable to give the documentary evidence required under
paragraphs (2) to (4), the registration officer may require that the applicant
give an attestation which must—

10.8.56C.6.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application,

10.8.56C.6.b

be in writing and signed by a qualifying attestor,

10.8.56C.6.c

state the qualifying attestor’s full name, date of birth, occupation,
residential address and (if different) the address in respect of which the
qualifying attestor is registered as an elector,

10.8.56C.6.d

state—

10.8.56C.6.d.i

where the qualifying attestor is registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, the attestor’s British passport number together with
its date and place of issue;

10.8.56C.6.d.ii

otherwise—

10.8.56C.6.d.ii.aa

where the qualifying attestor is registered in respect of an address in
Northern Ireland and has been allocated a digital registration number in
accordance with section 10B of the 1983 Act (register of electors in Northern
Ireland: digital registration number), that digital registration number;

10.8.56C.6.d.ii.bb

in all other cases, the qualifying attestor’s electoral number,

10.8.56C.6.e

include an explanation as to the qualifying attestor’s ability to confirm that
the applicant is the person named in the application, including (but not
limited to) the qualifying attestor’s connection to the applicant and the
length of time that that connection has existed,

10.8.56C.6.f

include—

10.8.56C.6.f.i

an indication that the qualifying attestor is aware of section 13D(1) of the
1983 Act (offence of provision of false information to a registration
officer), and

10.8.56C.6.f.ii

a declaration by the qualifying attestor that all information provided in the
attestation is true, and

10.8.56C.6.g

state the date on which it is made.

10.8.56C.7

In paragraph (6), a “qualifying attestor” is a person—

10.8.56C.7.a

where the applicant is or is to be registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, who is aged 18 or over,

10.8.56C.7.b

who is not the spouse, civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister,
child or grandchild of the applicant,

10.8.56C.7.c

who is registered as an elector, and, except where the applicant is or is to
be registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration, who is
registered as an elector in a local authority area in Scotland,

10.8.56C.7.d

except where the person is registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration, whom the registration officer is satisfied is of good standing in
the community, and

10.8.56C.7.e

who has not already signed a relevant identity attestation for two other
applicants since, whichever is the later,—

10.8.56C.7.e.i

the date on which the revised register in which the qualifying attestor’s name
appears was last published under section 13(1) of the 1983 Act;

10.8.56C.7.e.ii

the date on which a notice specifying the qualifying attestor’s entry in the
register was issued under (as the case may be) section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B or
13BC of that Act (and if there has been more than one such notice, the date on
which the last one was issued).

10.8.56C.8

In paragraph (7)(e), a “relevant identity attestation” is an attestation
provided in accordance with—

10.8.56C.8.a

paragraph (6);

10.8.56C.8.b

regulation 26B(6);

10.8.56C.8.c

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the Representation of the People (England and
Wales) Regulations 2001;

10.8.56C.8.d

paragraph 16C(5) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections
Order 2012;

10.8.56C.8.e

regulation 72B(6) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations
2016;

10.8.56C.8.f

regulation 7(6) of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

10.8.56C.9

Paragraphs (2) to (6) do not apply where the applicant is registered, or has
applied to be registered, in a register of parliamentary electors or a
register of local government electors in England in pursuance of the following
declarations—

10.8.56C.9.a

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a Crown servant or
the spouse or civil partner of a Crown servant;

10.8.56C.9.b

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a member of the
forces;

10.8.56C.9.c

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is the spouse or civil
partner of a member of the forces.

10.8.56C.10

In the case of an application to which paragraph (9)(a) or (c) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or where
the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one of the
following documents, which has been certified by a Crown servant or British
Council employee or an officer of the forces, who is not the applicant’s
spouse or civil partner—

10.8.56C.10.a

the applicant’s passport;

10.8.56C.10.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area.

10.8.56C.11

In the case of an application to which paragraph (9)(b) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give an attestation which
must—

10.8.56C.11.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application,

10.8.56C.11.b

be in writing and signed by an officer of the forces who is not the spouse,
civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, child or grandchild of
the applicant,

10.8.56C.11.c

state the full name, address and rank of the person signing the attestation
and the service (whether naval, military or air forces) in which they serve,
and

10.8.56C.11.d

state the date on which it is made.

10.8.56C.12

In this regulation—

      “ Crown Dependency ” means the Bailiwick of Jersey, the Bailiwick of
Guernsey or the Isle of Man;           “ member of the forces ” has the same
meaning as in section 59(1) of the 1983 Act;           “ officer of the forces
” means a member of the forces who is an officer.

10.8.56C.13

This regulation does not apply in relation to an application under paragraph
4(2) of Schedule 4—

10.8.56C.13.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made, and

10.8.56C.13.b

where regulation 56(3A) or (3D) applies.

########## Processing of information provided in connection with a relevant absent voting application


10.8.56D

10.8.56D.1

If a person provides an original document under regulation 56C, the
registration officer must make a copy of that document and return the original
document to the person who provided it.

10.8.56D.2

In respect of any relevant absent voting application, the registration officer
must retain until the application has been determined—

10.8.56D.2.a

the application form, or, in the case of an application made through the
digital service, the information contained in the application transmitted to
the registration officer by the Secretary of State;

10.8.56D.2.b

any other information or documents provided to the registration officer in
connection with the application or, in the case of original documents which
are returned under paragraph (1), a copy of such documents.

10.8.56D.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the registration officer may retain the application
form, information and documents in paragraph (2) after the application has
been determined but, if they do so, must delete the applicant’s national
insurance number from the application form, information and documents in
paragraph (2) by no later than the date which is 13 months from the date on
which the registration officer determined the relevant absent voting
application.

10.8.56D.4

The requirement to delete the national insurance number in paragraph (3) does
not apply where the application, information and documents in paragraph (2)
are required for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

10.8.56D.5

Information disclosed under regulation 56B must not be disclosed to any other
person, except—

10.8.56D.5.a

for the purpose of determining the relevant absent voting application in
connection with which the information was disclosed, or

10.8.56D.5.b

for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

10.8.56D.6

A person who discloses information in breach of paragraph (5) is guilty of an
offence and liable—

10.8.56D.6.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or to a fine (or both);

10.8.56D.6.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or
to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

10.8.56D.7

Any information disclosed under regulation 56B must be processed in accordance
with any requirements as to the processing of information that may have been
imposed by the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities in
writing in advance of that processing, including requirements as to the
transfer, storage, destruction and security of that information.

10.8.56D.8

In this regulation, “ copy ” includes an electronic copy.

.

10.9

In regulation 57 (grant or refusal of applications)—

10.9.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

10.9.a.1A

Where a registration officer grants an application to vote by post at a
parliamentary election, the notification under paragraph (1) must include—

10.9.a.1A.a

where the postal vote entitlement is for a particular election, the date of
the poll for which the elector’s entitlement to vote by post has been granted;

10.9.a.1A.b

otherwise, the date on which the elector’s entitlement to vote by post ends.

;

10.9.b

in paragraph (3), at the end insert  “in respect of the appointment of a proxy
for the purpose of voting at a local government election or local government
elections” ;

10.9.c

after paragraph (3) insert—

10.9.c.3A

The form of proxy paper in Form E1 is prescribed for the purposes of paragraph
6(9) of Schedule 4 in respect of the appointment of a proxy for the purpose of
voting at a parliamentary election, or at parliamentary elections.

;

10.9.d

after paragraph (6) insert—

10.9.d.6A

Paragraphs (6B) to (6D) apply where—

10.9.d.6A.a

an application under Schedule 4 relates to voting at a parliamentary election,
and

10.9.d.6A.b

either—

10.9.d.6A.b.i

paragraph (2) of regulation 51AA applies to that application, or would have
applied if paragraph (3) of that regulation were ignored, or

10.9.d.6A.b.ii

paragraph (1) of regulation 51B applies to that application, or would have
applied if paragraph (1A) of that regulation were ignored.

10.9.d.6B

A notification under paragraph (1) or (4A) to one of the following types of
applicants must also include a statement that ballot papers will be sent to
the postal ballot delivery address—

10.9.d.6B.a

an applicant registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration;

10.9.d.6B.b

an applicant registered in pursuance of a service declaration;

10.9.d.6B.c

an applicant registered in pursuance of a declaration of local connection
(within the meaning of section 7B of the 1983 Act);

10.9.d.6B.d

an applicant who is a merchant seaman (within the meaning of section 6 of the
1983 Act);

10.9.d.6B.e

an applicant who has an anonymous entry.

10.9.d.6C

Where sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) of paragraph (6B) do not apply to the
applicant, the registration officer must, in addition to notifying the
applicant in accordance with paragraphs (1), (4), (4A) or (5), notify the
applicant in writing that—

10.9.d.6C.a

the application has been granted, refused or disregarded, and

10.9.d.6C.b

where the application has been granted, ballot papers will be sent to the
postal ballot delivery address.

10.9.d.6D

A notification under paragraph (6C) must be delivered to—

10.9.d.6D.a

where paragraph (6A)(b)(ii) applies and the notification is to be delivered to
a person shown as voting by post in the record kept under paragraph 7(6) of
Schedule 4, the address shown in that record;

10.9.d.6D.b

otherwise—

10.9.d.6D.b.i

the address stated in the application in accordance with regulation 51(2)(b),
or

10.9.d.6D.b.ii

the proxy’s address stated in the application in accordance with regulation
51(2)(c).

10.9.d.6E

In paragraphs (6B) and (6C), the “ postal ballot delivery address ” means—

10.9.d.6E.a

where paragraph (6A)(b)(i) applies, the address stated in the application in
accordance with regulation 51(2)(d);

10.9.d.6E.b

where paragraph (6A)(b)(ii) applies, the different address described in
regulation 51B(1).

.

10.10

After regulation 60 (inquiries by registration officer) insert—

########## Requirement to notify certain electors and proxies that postal vote entitlement is to end


10.10.60ZA

10.10.60ZA.1

This regulation applies in respect of an elector or proxy who remains entitled
to vote by post at a parliamentary election by virtue of an entitlement which
was granted for the maximum period (“ the relevant person ”).

10.10.60ZA.2

The registration officer must, before the end of the maximum period, send to
the relevant person—

10.10.60ZA.2.a

a notice informing the relevant person of the date on which the relevant
person’s entitlement to vote by post is to end, and

10.10.60ZA.2.b

information about how to make a fresh application to vote by post (as elector
or, as the case may be, as proxy).

.

10.11

In regulation 60A (requirement to provide fresh signatures at five yearly
intervals), before paragraph (1) insert—

10.11.A1

This regulation does not apply to an elector or proxy so far as that elector
or proxy remains entitled to vote by post at a parliamentary election.

.

10.12

In regulation 61 (records and lists kept under Schedule 4), in paragraph (7)
after “regulation 56(3A)” insert  “or (3D)” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (forms)


11

In Schedule 3 (forms)—

11.a

in the arrangement of forms—

11.a.i

in the entry for Form E, after “proxy paper” insert  “(local government
elections)” ;

11.a.ii

after that entry insert—

Form E1: Proxy paper (parliamentary elections)

;

11.b

for Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person) and
Form B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person) substitute the corresponding forms as set out in Schedule 4;

11.c

in Form E—

11.c.i

omit “Constituency”;

11.c.ii

omit “*[” in the first place it occurs;

11.c.iii

omit “]” in the first place it occurs;

11.c.iv

omit “*[who qualifies as an overseas elector in respect of the above
constituency]”;

11.c.v

for “*[parliamentary] *[local government]” in both places it occurs substitute
“local government” ;

11.c.vi

for “*[constituency] *[electoral area]” in both places it occurs substitute
“electoral area” ;

11.c.vii

in the section titled “Your right to vote as proxy”, in paragraph (2), omit
“parliamentary, or”;

11.d

after Form E, insert new Form E1 as set out in Schedule 4.

### Other amendments


#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 1986


12

In regulation 98 of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations
1986 (modification of parliamentary elections rules) , in paragraph (8) after
sub-paragraph (a) insert—

12.aa

in questions 2(e) and 3(e), for “in this election” substitute  “in this
Parliamentary election” ;

12.ab

in questions 2(f) and 3(f), after “today” insert  “at this Parliamentary
election” ;

.

#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Combination of Polls) (England and Wales) Regulations 2004


13

In Schedule 2 to the Representation of the People (Combination of Polls)
(England and Wales) Regulations 2004 (modifications to parliamentary elections
rules) , in paragraph 12(2), after paragraph (a) insert—

13.aa

in questions 2(e) and 3(e), for “in this election” substitute  “in this
Parliamentary election” ;

13.ab

in questions 2(f) and 3(f), after “today” insert  “at this Parliamentary
election” ;

.

#### Amendment of the Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007


14

14.1

The Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007
are amended as follows.

14.2

Schedule 1 (the mayoral elections rules) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (3) to (5).

14.3

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

14.3.a

in paragraph (1)—

14.3.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a), omit “and”;

14.3.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “in relation to a mayoral
election held in Wales,” ;

14.3.a.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), insert  “and” ;

14.3.a.iv

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

14.3.a.iv.c

in relation to a mayoral election held in England, must be put if—

14.3.a.iv.c.i

(where applicable) the person has answered the previous question in the manner
indicated, and

14.3.a.iv.c.ii

the letter “R” appears after the question and the candidate or the candidate’s
election or polling agent requires the question to be put:

;

14.3.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

14.3.b.i

in entry 2 (proxy) and entry 3 (proxy for an anonymous elector), in the column
headed “Question”—

14.3.b.i.aa

in question (c) at the beginning insert  “In relation to a mayoral election
held in Wales:” ;

14.3.b.i.bb

after question (c) insert—

14.3.b.i.bb.d

In relation to a mayoral election held in England: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four or more
electors?” [R]

14.3.b.i.bb.e

If the person answers question (d) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

14.3.b.i.bb.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

14.3.b.i.bb.g

If the person answers question (f) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

14.3.b.ii

in entry 4, in the column headed “Person applying for ballot paper” at the
beginning insert  “In relation to a mayoral election held in Wales,” .

14.4

In rule 57 (delivery and retention of documents), after paragraph (c) insert—

14.4.ca

in the case of a mayoral election held in England, the packet containing the
completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

14.5

In the Appendix of Forms, for Forms 8A (elector’s official poll card (for use
at mayoral elections in England)) and 10A (official proxy poll card (for use
at mayoral elections in England) substitute the corresponding forms in Part 1
of Schedule 5.

14.6

Schedule 3 (mayoral election (combination of polls) rules) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (7) to (9).

14.7

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

14.7.a

in paragraph (1)—

14.7.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a), omit “and”;

14.7.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “in relation to a mayoral
election held in Wales,” ;

14.7.a.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), insert  “and” ;

14.7.a.iv

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

14.7.a.iv.c

in relation to a mayoral election held in England, must be put if—

14.7.a.iv.c.i

the person has answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and

14.7.a.iv.c.ii

the letter “R” appears after the question and the candidate or the candidate’s
election or polling agent requires the question to be put:

;

14.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

14.7.b.i

in entry 2 (proxy) and entry 3 (proxy for an anonymous elector), in the column
headed “Question”—

14.7.b.i.aa

in question (c) at the beginning insert  “In relation to a mayoral election
held in Wales:” ;

14.7.b.i.bb

after question (c) insert—

14.7.b.i.bb.d

In relation to a mayoral election held in England: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four or more
electors?” [R]

14.7.b.i.bb.e

If the person answers question (d) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

14.7.b.i.bb.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

14.7.b.i.bb.g

If the person answers question (f) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

14.7.b.ii

in entry 4, in the column headed “Person applying for ballot paper” at the
beginning insert  “In relation to a mayoral election held in Wales:” .

14.8

In rule 57 (delivery and retention of documents), in paragraph (1), after sub-
paragraph (c) insert—

14.8.ca

in the case of a mayoral election held in England, the packet containing the
completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

14.9

In the Appendix of Forms, for Forms 8A (elector’s official poll card (for use
at mayoral elections in England)) and 10A (official proxy poll card (for use
at mayoral elections in England) substitute the corresponding forms in Part 2
of Schedule 5.

#### The Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012


15

15.1

The Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012  are
amended as follows.

15.2

Schedule 3 (local government act referendum rules) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs (3) and (4).

15.3

In rule 24 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

15.3.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

15.3.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

15.3.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

15.3.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this voting area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four
or more voters? [R]

15.3.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this voting
area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more voters?” [R]

15.3.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the voters on whose behalf you have voted in this referendum, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

15.3.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the voter (or are
the voters) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of electors
otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

15.3.b.ii

omit entry 4;

15.3.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

15.4

In Part 8 (appendix of forms), for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be
sent to a voter voting in person) and the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent
to an appointed proxy voting in person) substitute the corresponding forms in
Part 1 of Schedule 6.

15.5

In Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of Acts and subordinate
legislation)—

15.5.a

in Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983), in the entry for section
61 (other voting offences) , in the second column—

15.5.a.i

after the modifications for subsection (1) insert—

In subsection (1A)—

15.5.a.i.a

omit paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f);

15.5.a.i.b

after “local government election” and “local government elections” in each
place they occur, insert  “or referendum”  or  “or referendums”  respectively;

15.5.a.i.c

in paragraph (d)(ii), after “that election” insert  “or referendum” .

;

15.5.a.ii

in the modifications for subsections (2) to (4)—

15.5.a.ii.aa

for “subsections (2) to (4)” substitute  “subsections (2) to (3A)” ;

15.5.a.ii.bb

omit the text of substituted subsection (4);

15.5.a.iii

after those modifications insert—

In subsection (3B)—

15.5.a.iii.a

omit paragraphs (a)(i) and (ii) and (b);

15.5.a.iii.b

after “local government election” and “local government elections” in each
place they occur, insert  “or referendum”  or  “or referendums”  respectively;

15.5.a.iii.c

in paragraph (a)(iv) and (c)(ii), after “those elections” insert  “or
referendums” .

;

15.5.b

in Table 3 (Representation of the People Act 2000), in the entry for Schedule
4, in the second column—

15.5.b.i

in the modifications to paragraphs 2 to 7, 7C and 7D —

15.5.b.i.aa

after “3(4)(a)(i),” insert  “3(4)(aa), 3(5)(ca),” ;

15.5.b.i.bb

for “and 7(6)(a)(i)” substitute  “, 7(6)(a)(i), 7(6)(aa) and 7(9)(ca)” ;

15.5.b.ii

after the modification for paragraphs 3(4)(a)(i) and 7(6)(a)(i) insert—

In paragraphs 3(4)(aa), 3(5)(ca), 7(6)(aa) and 7(9)(ca), for “(or both)”
substitute  “or referendums, or at any combination of such polls” .

;

15.5.c

in Table 6 (Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001)—

15.5.c.i

in the entry for regulation 3, in the second column, at the beginning insert—

In paragraph (1), for the definition of “relevant absent voting application”
substitute—

      “ relevant absent voting application ” means an application (including a
partially completed application) under paragraph 3, 4 or 6 of Schedule 4 to
the Representation of the People Act 2000 as applied by the Local Authorities
(Conduct of Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012;

.

;

15.5.c.ii

in the entry for regulation 4(1)(b), for “Forms E” substitute  “Forms E1” ;

15.5.c.iii

in the entry for regulation 52, in the second column insert—

In paragraphs (A1), (1A)(a) and (2), after “local government election” insert
“or referendum” .

;

15.5.c.iv

in the entry for regulation 55B, in the first column, for “election”
substitute  “parliamentary election or local government election in England” ;

15.5.c.v

in the entry for regulation 56, in the second column, after the modifications
for paragraph (3D) insert—

In paragraph (3F)(a), after “election” in each place it occurs insert  “or
referendum” .

;

15.5.c.vi

after the entry for regulation 56A insert—

      Regulation 56B (verification of information provided in a relevant
absent voting application) Regulation 56C (power to request additional
evidence in relation to relevant absent voting applications where registration
officer considers it necessary) Regulation 56D (processing of information
provided in connection with a relevant absent voting application)

;

15.5.c.vii

in the entry for regulation 57, for the second column substitute—

In paragraph (3A)(b)—

15.5.c.vii.a

after “election” insert  “or referendum” ;

15.5.c.vii.b

after “elections” insert  “or referendums” .

In paragraph (5) after “election” insert  “or referendum” .

In paragraph (7), after “local government election” insert  “or referendum” .

;

15.5.c.viii

in the entry for Schedule 3, Form E, in the first column, for “Form E”
substitute  “Form E1” .

15.6

Schedule 5 (the local government act referendums (combination of polls) rules)
is amended in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8).

15.7

In rule 26 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

15.7.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

15.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

15.7.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

15.7.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this voting area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four
or more voters? [R]

15.7.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this voting
area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more voters?” [R]

15.7.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the voters on whose behalf you have voted in this referendum, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

15.7.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the voter (or are
the voters) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of electors
otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

15.7.b.ii

omit entry 4;

15.7.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

15.8

In Part 8 (appendix of forms), for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be
sent to a voter voting in person) and the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent
to an appointed proxy voting in person) substitute the corresponding forms in
Part 2 of Schedule 6.

#### The Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax Increases) (England) Regulations 2012


16

16.1

The Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax Increases)
(England) Regulations 2012  are amended as follows.

16.2

Schedule 3 (the local government finance act referendums rules) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4).

16.3

In rule 24 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

16.3.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

16.3.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

16.3.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

16.3.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this voting area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four
or more voters? [R]

16.3.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this voting
area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more voters?” [R]

16.3.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the voters on whose behalf you have voted in this referendum, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

16.3.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the voter (or are
the voters) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of electors
otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

16.3.b.ii

omit entry 4;

16.3.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

16.4

In Part 8 (appendix of forms), for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be
sent to a voter voting in person) and the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent
to an appointed proxy voting in person) substitute the corresponding forms in
Part 1 of Schedule 7.

16.5

In Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of Acts and subordinate
legislation)—

16.5.a

in Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983), in the entry for section
61 (other voting offences), in the second column—

16.5.a.i

after the modifications for subsection (1) insert—

In subsection (1A)—

16.5.a.i.a

omit paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f);

16.5.a.i.b

after “local government election” and “local government elections” in each
place they occur, insert  “or referendum”  or  “or referendums”  respectively;

16.5.a.i.c

in paragraph (d)(ii), after “that election” insert  “or referendum” .

;

16.5.a.ii

in the modifications for subsections (2) to (4)—

16.5.a.ii.aa

for “subsections (2) to (4)” substitute  “subsections (2) to (3A)” ;

16.5.a.ii.bb

omit the text of substituted subsection (4);

16.5.a.iii

after those modifications insert—

In subsection (3B)—

16.5.a.iii.a

omit paragraphs (a)(i) and (ii) and (b);

16.5.a.iii.b

after “local government election” and “local government elections” in each
place they occur, insert  “or referendum”  or  “or referendums”  respectively;

16.5.a.iii.c

in paragraph (a)(iv) and (c)(ii), after “those elections” insert  “or
referendums” .

;

16.5.b

in Table 3 (Representation of the People Act 2000), in the entry for Schedule
4, in the second column—

16.5.b.i

in the modifications to paragraphs 2 to 7, 7C and 7D—

16.5.b.i.aa

after “3(4)(a)(i),” insert  “3(4)(aa), 3(5)(ca),” ;

16.5.b.i.bb

for “and 7(6)(a)(i)” substitute  “, 7(6)(a)(i), 7(6)(aa) and 7(9)(ca)” ;

16.5.b.ii

after the modification for paragraphs 3(4)(a)(i) and 7(6)(a)(i) insert—

In paragraphs 3(4)(aa), 3(5)(ca), 7(6)(aa) and 7(9)(ca), for “(or both)”
substitute  “or referendums, or at any combination of such polls” .

;

16.5.c

in Table 6 (Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001)—

16.5.c.i

in the entry for regulation 3, in the second column, at the beginning insert—

In paragraph (1), for the definition of “relevant absent voting application”
substitute—

      “ relevant absent voting application ” means an application (including a
partially completed application) under paragraph 3, 4 or 6 of Schedule 4 to
the Representation of the People Act 2000 as applied by the Local Authorities
(Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax Increases) (England) Regulations 2012;

.

;

16.5.c.ii

in the entry for regulation 4(1)(b), for “Forms E” substitute  “Forms E1” ;

16.5.c.iii

in the entry for regulation 52, in the second column insert—

In paragraphs (A1), (1A)(a) and (2), after “local government election” insert
“or referendum” .

;

16.5.c.iv

in the entry for regulation 55B, in the first column, for “election”
substitute  “parliamentary election or local government election in England” ;

16.5.c.v

in the entry for regulation 56, in the second column, after the modifications
for paragraph (3D) insert—

In paragraph (3F)(a), after “election” in each place it occurs insert  “or
referendum” .

;

16.5.c.vi

after the entry for regulation 56A insert—

      Regulation 56B (verification of information provided in a relevant
absent voting application) Regulation 56C (power to request additional
evidence in relation to relevant absent voting applications where registration
officer considers it necessary) Regulation 56D (processing of information
provided in connection with a relevant absent voting application)

;

16.5.c.vii

in the entry for regulation 57, for the second column substitute—

In paragraph (3A)(b)—

16.5.c.vii.a

after “election” insert  “or referendum” ;

16.5.c.vii.b

after “elections” insert  “or referendums” .

In paragraph (5) after “election” insert  “or referendum” .

In paragraph (7), after “local government election” insert  “or referendum” .

;

16.5.c.viii

in the entry for Schedule 3, Form E, in the first column, for “Form E”
substitute  “Form E1” .

16.6

Schedule 5 (local government finance Act referendums (combination of polls)
rules) is amended in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8).

16.7

In rule 26 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

16.7.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

16.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

16.7.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

16.7.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this voting area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four
or more voters? [R]

16.7.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this voting
area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more voters?” [R]

16.7.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the voters on whose behalf you have voted in this referendum, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

16.7.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the voter (or are
the voters) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of electors
otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

16.7.b.ii

omit entry 4;

16.7.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

16.8

In Part 8 (appendix of forms), for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be
sent to a voter voting in person) and the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent
to an appointed proxy voting in person) substitute the corresponding forms in
Part 2 of Schedule 7.

#### Amendment of the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012


17

17.1

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012 is amended as follows.

17.2

In article 2(1) (interpretation), after the definition of “Senedd election”
insert—

“ service declaration ” means a declaration made by a person under and in
accordance with section 15 of the 1983 Act (service declaration) ;

.

17.3

In article 18 (other voting offences)—

17.3.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

17.3.a.1A

A person (“ P ”) is guilty of an offence if P applies for the appointment of a
proxy to vote for P—

17.3.a.1A.a

at a PCC election, where P knows that the person to be appointed as a proxy to
vote at that election, or at PCC elections, for four or more other electors;

17.3.a.1A.b

at a PCC election, where—

17.3.a.1A.b.i

P is or will be registered in a register of electors otherwise than in
pursuance of a service declaration, and

17.3.a.1A.b.ii

P knows that the person to be appointed is already appointed as a proxy to
vote at that election, or at PCC elections, for two or more other electors,
none of whom is registered in a register of PCC electors in pursuance of a
service declaration.

.

17.3.b

for paragraph (4) substitute—

17.3.b.4

A person (“ P ”) is also guilty of an offence if P votes as a proxy—

17.3.b.4.a

for more than four electors—

17.3.b.4.a.i

at a PCC election;

17.3.b.4.a.ii

where the polls for two or more PCC elections are held on the same day, at
those elections taken together;

17.3.b.4.b

for more than two electors—

17.3.b.4.b.i

at a PCC election,

17.3.b.4.b.ii

where the polls for two or more PCC elections are held on the same day, at
those elections taken together,

where P knows that more than two of those electors are registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration.

.

17.4

In article 87 (sending of applications and notices: electronic signatures and
related certificates), after paragraph (4) insert—

17.4.5

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to an application for an absent vote
made under Part 1 of Schedule 2, for which the general requirements are set
out in paragraph 11 of Part 2 of that Schedule.

.

17.5

In Schedule 2 (absent voting in PCC elections)—

17.5.a

in paragraph 3 (application to vote by post or by proxy at a particular PCC
election)—

17.5.a.i

in sub-paragraph (4)(a),   at the end insert   “other  than a relevant Welsh
elector,” ;

17.5.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (5), after “person” in the first place it occurs insert
“other than a relevant Welsh elector” ;

17.5.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (9) insert—

17.5.a.iii.10

In this paragraph “ relevant Welsh elector ” means a person who is included in
the record mentioned in sub-paragraph (4)(a) only by virtue of an entitlement
to vote by post or by proxy at local government elections in Wales.

;

17.5.b

in paragraph 4 (absent voter lists)—

17.5.b.i

in sub-paragraph (2)(a)—

17.5.b.i.aa

after “persons” insert  “other than relevant Welsh electors” ;

17.5.b.i.bb

omit “or (b)”;

17.5.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), after “persons” insert  “other than relevant Welsh
electors” ;

17.5.b.iii

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

17.5.b.iii.6

In this paragraph, “ relevant Welsh elector ” has the meaning given in
paragraph 3(10).

;

17.5.c

in paragraph 6 (proxies at PCC elections: entitlement to vote), for sub-
paragraph (5) substitute—

17.5.c.5

A person—

17.5.c.5.a

is not entitled to vote as proxy at a PCC election on behalf of more than two
electors who do not fall within sub-paragraph (6), but

17.5.c.5.b

subject to paragraph (a), is entitled to vote as proxy at a PCC election on
behalf of up to four electors.

17.5.c.6

An elector falls within this sub-paragraph if the elector is registered in the
register of electors in pursuance of a service declaration.

17.5.c.7

Where the polls for two or more PCC elections are held on the same day,
references in sub-paragraph (5) to a PCC election are to all of those PCC
elections taken together.

;

17.5.ca

in paragraph 7 (voting as proxy)—

17.5.ca.i

in sub-paragraph (6), in paragraph (a) at the end insert  “and is not a
relevant Welsh proxy” ;

17.5.ca.ii

in sub-paragraph (7), in paragraph (a), in sub-paragraph (ii) at the end
insert  “and are not relevant Welsh proxies” ;

17.5.ca.iii

after sub-paragraph (13) insert—

17.5.ca.iii.14

In this paragraph “ relevant Welsh proxy ” means a person who is included in
the record kept under paragraph 7(6) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of
the People Act 2000 only by virtue of an entitlement to vote by post as proxy
at local government elections in Wales.

;

17.5.d

before paragraph 11 insert—

############ Interpretation


17.5.d.10A

In this Part, “ digital service ” means the Individual Electoral Registration
Digital Service, which is the digital service provided by the Secretary of
State for (amongst other purposes) the purpose of processing online
applications for absent votes and for verifying information in accordance with
paragraph 16B.

;

17.5.e

in paragraph 11 (general requirements for applications for absent vote)—

17.5.e.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

17.5.e.i.aa

the applicant’s national insurance number or, if they are not able to provide
that information, the reason why they are not able to do so,

;

17.5.e.ii

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

17.5.e.ii.5A

Where, by virtue of arrangements made by the Secretary of State, an
application for an absent vote under Part 1 may be made through the digital
service—

17.5.e.ii.5A.a

the Secretary of State may complete the application in part using information
provided by the applicant as part of an application, or partially completed
application, under section 10ZC or 10ZD of the 1983 Act for registration in,
or alteration of, a register of electors made through or completed using the
digital service;

17.5.e.ii.5A.b

where the application is required to contain a signature, the application must
contain a compliant photograph or electronic scan of the applicant’s
signature;

17.5.e.ii.5A.c

the Secretary of State must—

17.5.e.ii.5A.c.i

request that the applicant provide their most recent previous name (if they
have one), and

17.5.e.ii.5A.c.ii

provide an explanation of the purpose for which the information will be used.

17.5.e.ii.5B

In sub-paragraph (5A)(b) “ compliant photograph or electronic scan of the
applicant’s signature ” means—

17.5.e.ii.5B.a

the signature contained in the photograph or electronic scan complies with the
requirements of paragraph (a) of sub-paragraph (3), and

17.5.e.ii.5B.b

the photograph or electronic scan of the signature is sufficiently clear and
unambiguous so as to comply with the requirements of sub-paragraph (3).

;

17.5.e.iii

after sub-paragraph (7) insert—

17.5.e.iii.8

Where an applicant is unable to provide a national insurance number in
accordance with sub-paragraph (1)(aa), the applicant may provide as part of
the application a copy of any of the documents listed in paragraph 16C(2) to
(4).

17.5.e.iii.9

The Secretary of State must send to the appropriate registration officer—

17.5.e.iii.9.a

subject to sub-paragraph (10), any application the Secretary of State receives
via the digital service,

17.5.e.iii.9.b

the applicant’s previous name (if any provided),

17.5.e.iii.9.c

any copy documentation provided by the applicant in accordance with sub-
paragraph (8), and

17.5.e.iii.9.d

a reference number unique to that application.

17.5.e.iii.10

Where an application made through the digital service in accordance with
paragraph (5A) includes the applicant’s national insurance number the
Secretary of State—

17.5.e.iii.10.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

17.5.e.iii.10.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

;

17.5.f

in paragraph 14 (additional requirements: applications for the appointment of
a proxy in respect of a particular PCC election)—

17.5.f.i

in sub-paragraph (2), omit “together with the person’s family relationship (if
any) with P”;

17.5.f.ii

after sub-paragraph (7) insert—

17.5.f.ii.7A

Where an application under paragraph 3(2) is made after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the PCC election for which it is made because
the circumstances set out in sub-paragraph (2E) of paragraph 16 apply, the
application must (in addition to providing any other information required by
this Part) state that it is being made because of those circumstances.

17.5.f.ii.7B

Paragraph 16(5) applies for the purposes of sub-paragraph (7A) as it applies
for the purposes of paragraph 16.

;

17.5.g

in paragraph 14A (additional requirements: applications for the appointment of
a proxy on grounds relating to voter identification), in the heading for
“relation” substitute  “relating” ;

17.5.h

in paragraph 16 (closing date for applications)—

17.5.h.i

in sub-paragraph (2) after paragraph (aa) insert—

17.5.h.i.ab

in the circumstances set out in sub-paragraph (2E), or

;

17.5.h.ii

after sub-paragraph (2D) insert—

17.5.h.ii.2E

The circumstances are that the application was—

17.5.h.ii.2E.a

submitted prior to the deadline of 5pm on the sixth day before the date of the
poll at the PCC election for which it was made,

17.5.h.ii.2E.b

submitted via the digital service, and

17.5.h.ii.2E.c

not received by the registration officer until after the deadline of 5pm on
the sixth day before the date of the poll at the PCC election for which it was
made due to a technical defect in the digital service.

;

17.5.i

after paragraph 16A (grounds relating to voter identification) insert—

############ Verification of information provided in an application for absent vote


17.5.i.16B

17.5.i.16B.1

On receipt of an application for an absent vote under Part 1 made otherwise
than through the digital service, a registration officer must disclose the
applicant’s name or names, address, date of birth and national insurance
number (“the first stage information”) to the Secretary of State for Levelling
Up, Housing and Communities in such format and through such an infrastructure
system as the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may
have notified to the registration officer in writing.

17.5.i.16B.2

Following receipt of the first stage information from the registration officer
or, in the case of an application made through or partially completed using
the digital service, from an applicant, the Secretary of State for Levelling
Up, Housing and Communities may disclose the first stage information to the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.

17.5.i.16B.3

Where the first stage information has been disclosed to the Secretary of State
for Work and Pensions under sub-paragraph (2), the Secretary of State for Work
and Pensions may compare it against—

17.5.i.16B.3.a

the name, address, date of birth and national insurance number of individuals
appearing in the following types of data kept by the Secretary of State—

17.5.i.16B.3.a.i

data kept for the purposes of functions relating to social security (including
such information kept on behalf of the Department for Social Development); and

17.5.i.16B.3.a.ii

data relating to working tax credit, child tax credit and child benefit (being
information kept on behalf of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs); and

17.5.i.16B.3.b

any other information contained in such types of data which relates to the
information disclosed under sub-paragraph (2).

17.5.i.16B.4

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the first stage information (“the second stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

17.5.i.16B.5

On receipt of the second stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may disclose that information—

17.5.i.16B.5.a

to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, or

17.5.i.16B.5.b

to the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in the
case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates.

17.5.i.16B.6

Sub-paragraph (3) applies to the second stage information where it has been
disclosed to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under sub-paragraph
(5)(a) as it applies to the first stage information disclosed under sub-
paragraph (2).

17.5.i.16B.7

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the second stage information (“the third stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

17.5.i.16B.8

On receipt of the third stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may—

17.5.i.16B.8.a

compare the third stage information against the information provided in the
relevant application for an absent vote, and

17.5.i.16B.8.b

notify the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in
the case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates, as to
whether the comparison in paragraph (a) resulted in a match.

17.5.i.16B.9

The registration officer must take into account any information disclosed by,
or notification received from, the Secretary of State for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities in accordance with this regulation when determining
the application.

17.5.i.16B.10

This paragraph does not apply in relation to an application under paragraph
3(2)—

17.5.i.16B.10.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the PCC election for which it is made, and

17.5.i.16B.10.b

where paragraph 16(2) or (2C) applies.

17.5.i.16B.11

In this paragraph—

17.5.i.16B.11.a

“ infrastructure system ” has the meaning given in Schedule 3A to the
Communications Act 2003;

17.5.i.16B.11.b

the reference in sub-paragraph (1) to the applicant’s address is a reference
to the address contained in the application in accordance with paragraph
11(1)(b).

############ Power to request additional evidence in relation to absent vote applications where registration officer considers it necessary


17.5.i.16C

17.5.i.16C.1

This paragraph applies where, upon receipt of an application for an absent
vote under Part 1, a registration officer considers additional evidence is
necessary to verify the identity of the applicant.

17.5.i.16C.2

The registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one
of the following documents—

17.5.i.16C.2.a

the applicant’s passport;

17.5.i.16C.2.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area;

17.5.i.16C.2.c

the applicant’s biometric immigration document issued in the United Kingdom in
accordance with regulations made under section 5 of the Borders Act 2007;

17.5.i.16C.2.d

the applicant’s electoral identity card issued in Northern Ireland; or

17.5.i.16C.2.e

the applicant’s photocard driving licence granted in the United Kingdom or
driving licence granted by a Crown Dependency, which bears a photograph of the
applicant.

17.5.i.16C.3

Where an applicant is not able to give one of the documents in sub-paragraph
(2), the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy,
or where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of—

17.5.i.16C.3.a

one of the following documents, which, except in relation to sub-paragraph
(vii), must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies—

17.5.i.16C.3.a.i

the applicant’s birth certificate;

17.5.i.16C.3.a.ii

the applicant’s marriage or civil partnership certificate;

17.5.i.16C.3.a.iii

the applicant’s adoption certificate;

17.5.i.16C.3.a.iv

the applicant’s firearms certificate granted under the Firearms Act 1968;

17.5.i.16C.3.a.v

the record of a decision on bail made in respect of the applicant in
accordance with section 5(1) of the Bail Act 1976;

17.5.i.16C.3.a.vi

the applicant’s driving licence, which is not in the form of a photocard; or

17.5.i.16C.3.a.vii

the applicant’s driving licence granted other than in the United Kingdom or
Crown Dependencies, which bears a photograph of the applicant and which must
be valid for at least 12 months from the date the applicant entered the United
Kingdom; and

17.5.i.16C.3.b

two other documents, each of which may be either from paragraph (a) or from
sub-paragraph (4).

17.5.i.16C.4

Where the applicant is not able to give documents in accordance with sub-
paragraph (3), the registration officer may require that the applicant give
them a copy, or where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the
original, of four documents, each of which may be any of the following kinds
of evidence and which must bear the applicant’s full name—

17.5.i.16C.4.a

a financial statement, including but not limited to—

17.5.i.16C.4.a.i

a mortgage statement;

17.5.i.16C.4.a.ii

a bank or building society statement or a letter from a bank or building
society confirming that the applicant has opened an account with that bank or
building society;

17.5.i.16C.4.a.iii

a credit card statement;

17.5.i.16C.4.a.iv

a pension statement;

17.5.i.16C.4.b

a council tax demand letter or statement;

17.5.i.16C.4.c

a utility bill;

17.5.i.16C.4.d

a Form P45 or Form P60 issued to the applicant by their employer or former
employer;

17.5.i.16C.4.e

a statement of benefits or entitlement to benefits, such as a statement of
child benefit, within the meaning of section 141 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, or a letter confirming that the applicant
is entitled to housing benefit, within the meaning of section 130 of that Act.

17.5.i.16C.5

If an applicant is unable to give the documentary evidence required under sub-
paragraphs (2) to (4), the registration officer may require that the applicant
give an attestation which must—

17.5.i.16C.5.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application,

17.5.i.16C.5.b

be in writing and signed by a qualifying attestor,

17.5.i.16C.5.c

state the qualifying attestor’s full name, date of birth, occupation,
residential address and (if different) the address in respect of which the
qualifying attestor is registered as an elector,

17.5.i.16C.5.d

state—

17.5.i.16C.5.d.i

where the qualifying attestor is registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, the attestor’s British passport number together with
its date and place of issue;

17.5.i.16C.5.d.ii

otherwise, the qualifying attestor’s electoral number,

17.5.i.16C.5.e

include an explanation as to the qualifying attestor’s ability to confirm that
the applicant is the person named in the application, including (but not
limited to) the qualifying attestor’s connection to the applicant and the
length of time that that connection has existed,

17.5.i.16C.5.f

include—

17.5.i.16C.5.f.i

an indication that the qualifying attestor is aware of section 13D(1) of the
1983 Act (offence of provision of false information to a registration
officer), and

17.5.i.16C.5.f.ii

a declaration by the qualifying attestor that all information provided in the
attestation is true, and

17.5.i.16C.5.g

state the date on which it is made.

17.5.i.16C.6

In sub-paragraph (5), a “qualifying attestor” is a person—

17.5.i.16C.6.a

who is not the spouse, civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister,
child or grandchild of the applicant,

17.5.i.16C.6.b

who is registered as an elector in a local authority area in England or Wales

17.5.i.16C.6.c

except where the person is registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration, whom the registration officer is satisfied is of good standing in
the community, and

17.5.i.16C.6.d

who has not already signed a relevant identity attestation for two other
applicants since, whichever is the later,—

17.5.i.16C.6.d.i

the date on which the revised register in which the qualifying attestor’s name
appears was last published under section 13(1) of the 1983 Act; or

17.5.i.16C.6.d.ii

the date on which a notice specifying the qualifying attestor’s entry in the
register was issued under (as the case may be) section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B or
13BC of that Act (and if there has been more than one such notice, the date on
which the last one was issued).

17.5.i.16C.7

In sub-paragraph (6)(d), a “relevant identity attestation” is an attestation
provided in accordance with—

17.5.i.16C.7.a

sub-paragraph (5);

17.5.i.16C.7.b

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the 2001 Regulations;

17.5.i.16C.7.c

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the Representation of the People (Scotland)
Regulations 2001;

17.5.i.16C.7.d

regulation 72B(6) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations
2016;

17.5.i.16C.7.e

regulation 7(6) of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

17.5.i.16C.8

Sub-paragraphs (2) to (6) do not apply where the applicant is registered, or
has applied to be registered, in the register of electors in pursuance of the
following declarations—

17.5.i.16C.8.a

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a Crown servant or
the spouse or civil partner of a Crown servant;

17.5.i.16C.8.b

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a member of the
forces; or

17.5.i.16C.8.c

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is the spouse or civil
partner of a member of the forces.

17.5.i.16C.9

In the case of an application to which sub-paragraph (8)(a) or (c) applies,
the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one
of the following documents, which has been certified by a Crown servant or
British Council employee or an officer of the forces, who is not the
applicant’s spouse or civil partner—

17.5.i.16C.9.a

the applicant’s passport; or

17.5.i.16C.9.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area.

17.5.i.16C.10

In the case of an application to which sub-paragraph (8)(b) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give an attestation which
must—

17.5.i.16C.10.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application;

17.5.i.16C.10.b

be in writing and signed by an officer of the forces who is not the spouse,
civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, child or grandchild of
the applicant;

17.5.i.16C.10.c

state the full name, address and rank of the person signing the attestation
and the service (whether naval, military or air forces) in which they serve;
and

17.5.i.16C.10.d

state the date on which it is made.

17.5.i.16C.11

In this paragraph—

“ Crown Dependency ” means the Bailiwick of Jersey, the Bailiwick of Guernsey
or the Isle of Man; “ Crown servant ” has the meaning given by regulation 14
of the 2001 Regulations; “ member of the forces ” has the same meaning as in
section 59(1) of the 1983 Act; “ officer of the forces ” means a member of the
forces who is an officer.

17.5.i.16C.12

This paragraph does not apply in relation to an application under paragraph
3(2)—

17.5.i.16C.12.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the date of the poll at the election for which it is made, and

17.5.i.16C.12.b

where paragraph 16(2) or (2C) applies.

############ Processing of information provided in connection with an application for an absent vote


17.5.i.16D

17.5.i.16D.1

If a person provides an original document under paragraph 16C, the
registration officer must make a copy of that document and return the original
document to the person who provided it.

17.5.i.16D.2

In respect of an application for an absent vote under Part 1, the registration
officer must retain until the application has been determined—

17.5.i.16D.2.a

the application form or, in the case of an application made through the
digital service, the information contained in the application transmitted to
the registration officer by the Secretary of State;

17.5.i.16D.2.b

any other information or documents provided to the registration officer in
connection with the application or, in the case of original documents which
are returned under paragraph (1), a copy of such documents.

17.5.i.16D.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the registration officer may retain the application
form, information and documents in paragraph (2) after the application has
been determined but, if they do so, must delete the applicant’s national
insurance number from the application form, information and documents in
paragraph (2) by no later than the date which is 13 months from the date on
which the registration officer determined the application.

17.5.i.16D.4

The requirement to delete the national insurance number in paragraph (3) does
not apply where the application, information and documents in paragraph (2)
are required for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

17.5.i.16D.5

Information disclosed under paragraph 16B must not be disclosed to any other
person, except—

17.5.i.16D.5.a

for the purpose of determining the application for an absent vote in
connection with which the information was disclosed, or

17.5.i.16D.5.b

for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

17.5.i.16D.6

A person who discloses information in breach of sub-paragraph (5) is guilty of
an offence and liable—

17.5.i.16D.6.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or to a fine (or both);

17.5.i.16D.6.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, or to a fine (or both).

17.5.i.16D.7

Any information disclosed under paragraph 16B must be processed in accordance
with any requirements as to the processing of information that may have been
imposed by the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities in
writing in advance of that processing, including requirements as to the
transfer, storage, destruction and security of that information.

17.5.i.16D.8

In this paragraph, “ copy ” includes an electronic copy.

;

17.5.j

in paragraph 17 (grant or refusal of applications)—

17.5.j.i

in sub-paragraph (1), at the end insert  “of that decision and the date of the
poll of the PCC election for which the applicant may vote by post” ;

17.5.j.ii

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

17.5.j.ii.4A

Sub-paragraphs (4B) to (4E) apply where—

17.5.j.ii.4A.a

sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 12 applies to an application, or would have
applied if paragraph (3) of that paragraph were ignored, or

17.5.j.ii.4A.b

sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 13 applies to an application, or would have
applied if paragraph (3) of that paragraph were ignored.

17.5.j.ii.4B

A notification under sub-paragraphs (1) or (4) to one of the following types
of applicants must also include a statement that ballot papers will be sent to
the postal ballot delivery address—

17.5.j.ii.4B.a

an applicant registered in pursuance of a service declaration;

17.5.j.ii.4B.b

an applicant registered in pursuance of a declaration of local connection
(within the meaning of section 7B of the 1983 Act);

17.5.j.ii.4B.c

an applicant who is a merchant seaman (within the meaning of section 6 of the
1983 Act);

17.5.j.ii.4B.d

an applicant who has an anonymous entry.

17.5.j.ii.4C

Where paragraphs (a) to (d) of sub-paragraph (4B) do not apply to the
applicant, the registration officer must, in addition to notifying the
applicant in accordance with sub-paragraphs (1), (3), (4) or (6), notify the
applicant in writing that—

17.5.j.ii.4C.a

the application has been granted, refused or disregarded, and

17.5.j.ii.4C.b

where the application has been granted, ballot papers will be sent to the
postal ballot delivery address.

17.5.j.ii.4D

A notification under sub-paragraph (4C) must be delivered to—

17.5.j.ii.4D.a

where both sub-paragraphs (4)(b) and (4A)(b) apply, the address shown in the
record kept under paragraph 7(6) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of the
People Act 2000;

17.5.j.ii.4D.b

otherwise—

17.5.j.ii.4D.b.i

the address stated in the application in accordance with paragraph 11(1)(b),
or

17.5.j.ii.4D.b.ii

the proxy’s address stated in the application in accordance with paragraph
11(1)(c).

17.5.j.ii.4E

In sub-paragraphs (4B) and (4C), the “ postal ballot delivery address ” means—

17.5.j.ii.4E.a

where sub-paragraph (4A)(a) applies, the address stated in the application in
accordance with paragraph 11(1)(d);

17.5.j.ii.4E.b

where sub-paragraph (4A)(b) applies, the different address described in
paragraph 13(1).

;

17.5.k

in paragraph 20 (absent voting lists: supply of copies etc), in sub-paragraph
(6) after “16(2)” insert  “or (2C)” ;

17.5.l

in paragraph 60, for Form 1 (proxy paper) substitute the corresponding form
set out in Part 1 of Schedule 8.

17.6

Schedule 3 (rules for the conduct of PCC elections where poll not taken
together with poll at another election) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (7) and (8).

17.7

In rule 37 (questions to be put to voters)—

17.7.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

17.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

17.7.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Questions”, for question (c)
substitute—

17.7.b.i.c

Have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other police and crime
commissioner election for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this police area or in any other police area, on behalf of four
or more electors? [R]

17.7.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Have you already voted as
a proxy at this election or any other police and crime commissioner election
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this police
area or in any other police area, on behalf of two or more electors?” [R]

17.7.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
police and crime commissioner election for which the day of poll is today,
registered in a register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service
declaration?” [R]

17.7.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

17.7.b.ii

omit entry 4.

17.8

In rule 70 (forms), for form 11 (official poll card) and form 13 (official
proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding forms in Part 2 of Schedule 8.

#### Amendment of the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012


18

18.1

The Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012  are amended as
follows.

18.2

Schedule 3 (neighbourhood planning referendums rules) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs (3) and (4).

18.3

In rule 25 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

18.3.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

18.3.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

18.3.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

18.3.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this voting area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four
or more voters? [R]

18.3.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this voting
area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more voters?” [R]

18.3.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the voters on whose behalf you have voted in this referendum, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

18.3.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the voter (or are
the voters) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of electors
otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

18.3.b.ii

omit entry 4;

18.3.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

18.4

In Part 8 (appendix of forms), for form 7 (official poll card (to be sent to a
voter voting in person)) and form 9 (official proxy poll card (to be sent to
an appointed proxy voting in person)) substitute the corresponding forms in
Part 1 of Schedule 9.

18.5

In Schedule 4 (application, with modification, of other Acts and subordinate
legislation)—

18.5.a

in Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983), in the entry for section
61 (other voting offences), in the second column—

18.5.a.i

after the modifications for subsection (1) insert—

In subsection (1A)—

18.5.a.i.a

omit paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f);

18.5.a.i.b

after “local government election” and “local government elections” in each
place they occur, insert  “or referendum”  or  “or referendums”  respectively;

18.5.a.i.c

in paragraph (d)(ii), after “that election” insert  “or referendum” .

;

18.5.a.ii

in the modifications for subsections (2) to (4)—

18.5.a.ii.aa

for “subsections (2) to (4)” substitute  “subsections (2) to (3A)” ;

18.5.a.ii.bb

omit the text of substituted subsection (4);

18.5.a.iii

after those modifications insert—

In subsection (3B)—

18.5.a.iii.a

omit paragraphs (a)(i) and (ii) and (b);

18.5.a.iii.b

after “local government election” and “local government elections” in each
place they occur, insert  “or referendum”  or  “or referendums”  respectively;

18.5.a.iii.c

in paragraph (a)(iv) and (c)(ii), after “those elections” insert  “or
referendums” .

;

18.5.b

in Table 3 (Representation of the People Act 2000), in the entry for Schedule
4, in the second column—

18.5.b.i

in the modifications to paragraphs 2 to 7, 7C and 7D—

18.5.b.i.aa

after “3(4)(a)(i),” insert  “3(4)(aa), 3(5)(ca),” ;

18.5.b.i.bb

for “and 7(6)(a)(i)” substitute  “, 7(6)(a)(i), 7(6)(aa) and 7(9)(ca)” ;

18.5.b.ii

after the modification for paragraphs 3(4)(a)(i) and 7(6)(a)(i) insert—

In paragraphs 3(4)(aa), 3(5)(ca), 7(6)(aa) and 7(9)(ca), for “(or both)”
substitute  “or referendums, or at any combination of such polls” .

;

18.5.c

in Table 6 (Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001)—

18.5.c.i

in the entry for regulation 3, in the second column, at the beginning insert—

In paragraph (1), for the definition of “relevant absent voting application”
substitute—

      “ relevant absent voting application ” means an application (including a
partially completed application) under paragraph 3, 4 or 6 of Schedule 4 to
the Representation of the People Act 2000 as applied by the Neighbourhood
Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012;

.

;

18.5.c.ii

in the entry for regulation 4(1)(b), for “Forms E” substitute  “Forms E1” ;

18.5.c.iii

in the entry for regulation 52, in the second column insert—

In paragraphs (A1), (1A)(a) and (2), after “local government election” insert
“or referendum” .

;

18.5.c.iv

in the entry for regulation 55B, in the first column, for “election”
substitute  “parliamentary election or local government election in England” ;

18.5.c.v

in the entry for regulation 56, in the second column, after the modifications
for paragraph (3D) insert—

In paragraph (3F)(a), after “election” in each place it occurs insert  “or
referendum” .

;

18.5.c.vi

after the entry for regulation 56A insert—

      Regulation 56B (verification of information provided in a relevant
absent voting application) Regulation 56C (power to request additional
evidence in relation to relevant absent voting applications where registration
officer considers it necessary) Regulation 56D (processing of information
provided in connection with a relevant absent voting application)

;

18.5.c.vii

in the entry for regulation 57, for the second column substitute—

In paragraph (3A)(b)—

18.5.c.vii.a

after “election” insert  “or referendum” ;

18.5.c.vii.b

after “elections” insert  “or referendums” .

In paragraph (5) after “election” insert  “or referendum” .

In paragraph (7), after “local government election” insert  “or referendum” .

;

18.5.c.viii

in the entry for Schedule 3, Form E, in the first column, for “Form E”
substitute  “Form E1” .

18.6

Schedule 5 (neighbourhood planning referendums (combination of polls) rules)
is amended in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8).

18.7

In rule 25 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

18.7.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

18.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

18.7.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

18.7.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this voting area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of four
or more voters? [R]

18.7.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this referendum or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this voting
area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more voters?” [R]

18.7.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the voters on whose behalf you have voted in this referendum, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

18.7.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the voter (or are
the voters) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of electors
otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

18.7.b.ii

omit entry 4;

18.7.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

18.8

In Part 8 (appendix of forms), for form 8 (official poll card (to be sent to a
voter voting in person)) and form 10 (official proxy poll card (to be sent to
an appointed proxy voting in person)) substitute the corresponding forms in
Part 2 of Schedule 9.

#### The Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016


19

19.1

The Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016 are amended as
follows.

19.2

In regulation 2 (application), in paragraph (2), after sub-paragraph (ja)
insert—

19.2.jb

 regulation 72A (verification of information provided in an application for
absent signing);

19.2.jc

regulation 72B (power to request additional evidence in relation to absent
signing applications where registration officer considers it necessary);

19.2.jd

regulation 72C (processing of information provided in connection with absent
signing applications);

19.2.je

regulation 73A (notification postal signing entitlement is to end);

.

19.3

In regulation 3 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

19.3.a

after the definition of “declaration of identity” insert—

“ digital service ” means the Individual Electoral Registration Digital
Service, which is the digital service provided by the Secretary of State for
the purpose (amongst other purposes) of processing online applications for
absent signing at a particular petition in England, Wales or Scotland and for
verifying information in accordance with regulation 72A;

;

19.3.b

for the definition of “overseas elector’s declaration” substitute—

“ overseas elector’s declaration ” means a declaration made under section 2 of
the 1985 Act (registration of British citizens overseas) ;

.

19.4

In regulation 25 (questions to be put to persons signing the petition)—

19.4.a

in the table following paragraph (1)—

19.4.a.i

in entry 2, in the column headed “Questions”, for question (c) substitute—

19.4.a.i.c

“Have you already signed this petition as a proxy, whether here or elsewhere
in this constituency, on behalf of four or more persons entitled to sign?”

19.4.a.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Have you already signed
this petition as a proxy, whether here or elsewhere in this constituency, on
behalf of two or more persons entitled to sign?”

19.4.a.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the persons on whose behalf you have signed this petition registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration or a service declaration?”

19.4.a.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the person (or are
the persons) for whom you are signing today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration or a
service declaration?”

19.4.a.i.g

At a petition held in Northern Ireland: “What is your date of birth?”

;

19.4.a.ii

in entry 3, in the column headed “Questions”, for question (c) substitute—

19.4.a.ii.c

“Have you already signed this petition as a proxy, whether here or elsewhere
in this constituency, on behalf of four or more persons entitled to sign?”

19.4.a.ii.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Have you already signed
this petition as a proxy, whether here or elsewhere in this constituency, on
behalf of two or more persons entitled to sign?”

19.4.a.ii.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the persons on whose behalf you have signed this petition registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration or a service declaration?”

19.4.a.ii.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the person (or are
the persons) for whom you are signing today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration or a
service declaration?”

;

19.4.a.iii

omit entry 4;

19.4.b

in paragraph (2), for “3(a) to (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

19.5

In regulation 50 (entitlement to sign by post or proxy), in paragraph (4)—

19.5.a

for “for a definite period and that period” substitute  “and the period for
which the resulting entitlement to vote by post” ;

19.5.b

omit “definite” in the second place it occurs.

19.6

In regulation 51 (absent signing at any petition for a definite or indefinite
period: England, Wales and Scotland)—

19.6.a

in paragraph (1), omit “(whether for an indefinite period or for a particular
period specified in that person’s application)”;

19.6.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

19.6.b.1A

Any grant of an application under paragraph (1) is to be for—

19.6.b.1A.a

the period ending with the third 31st January following the date on which the
application is granted, or

19.6.b.1A.b

any shorter period specified in the application.

19.6.b.1B

But where the person is registered in the register of parliamentary electors
in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration, paragraph (1A) does not
apply and instead any grant of an application is to be for—

19.6.b.1B.a

the period ending with the date on which, in accordance with section 2(2)(a)
of the 1985 Act, the person’s entitlement to remain registered in that
register ends, or

19.6.b.1B.b

any shorter period specified in the application.

;

19.6.c

for paragraph (4)(a) substitute—

19.6.c.a

where the applications were to sign the petition—

19.6.c.a.i

by post, the period for which that application was granted;

19.6.c.a.ii

by proxy, whether that was for an indefinite or a particular period
(specifying that period);

;

19.6.d

in paragraph (7), omit “(whether for an indefinite period or for a particular
period specified in his application)”;

19.6.e

after paragraph (7) insert—

19.6.e.7A

The following apply to an application under paragraph (7) as they apply to an
application under paragraph (1)—

19.6.e.7A.a

where the applicant is registered in the register of parliamentary electors in
pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration, paragraph (1B);

19.6.e.7A.b

otherwise, paragraph (1A).

;

19.6.f

in paragraph (9), omit “definite” in both places it occurs.

19.7

In regulation 57 (proxies at petitions)—

19.7.a

in paragraph (3), before sub-paragraph (a) insert—

19.7.a.za

is not registered in a register of parliamentary electors,

;

19.7.b

for paragraph (5) substitute—

19.7.b.5

A person—

19.7.b.5.a

is not entitled to sign a petition as proxy on behalf of more than two persons
who do not fall within paragraph (5A), but

19.7.b.5.b

subject to sub-paragraph (a), is entitled to sign such a petition on behalf of
up to four persons.

19.7.b.5A

A person falls within this paragraph if the person is registered in the
register in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration or as a service
voter.

.

19.8

In regulation 58 (signing the petition as a proxy)—

19.8.a

after paragraph (6) insert—

19.8.a.6A

Any grant of an application under paragraph (5) to sign by post as proxy at
recall petitions in England, Wales or Scotland is to be for—

19.8.a.6A.a

the period ending with the third 31st January following the date on which the
application is granted, or

19.8.a.6A.b

any shorter period specified in the application.

;

19.8.b

in paragraph (7), for sub-paragraph (a) substitute—

19.8.b.a

the period for which the applicant may sign recall petitions by post as proxy;
and

.

19.9

In regulation 60 (general requirements for applications for absent signing)—

19.9.a

in paragraph (1), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

19.9.a.aa

the applicant’s national insurance number or, if they are not able to provide
that information, the reason why they are not able to do so;

;

19.9.b

after paragraph (6) insert—

19.9.b.6A

Where, by virtue of arrangements made by the Secretary of State, an
application under Chapter 1 of this Part for absent signing at a particular
petition in England, Wales or Scotland may be made through the digital
service—

19.9.b.6A.a

the Secretary of State may complete the application in part using information
provided by the applicant as part of an application, or partially completed
application, under section 10ZC or 10ZD of the 1983 Act for registration in,
or alteration of, a register of electors made through or completed using the
digital service;

19.9.b.6A.b

where the application is required to contain a signature, the application must
contain a compliant photograph or electronic scan of the applicant’s
signature;

19.9.b.6A.c

the Secretary of State must—

19.9.b.6A.c.i

request that the applicant provide their most recent previous name (if they
have one), and

19.9.b.6A.c.ii

provide an explanation of the purpose for which the information will be used.

19.9.b.6B

In sub-paragraph (6A)(b) “ compliant photograph or electronic scan of the
applicant’s signature ” means—

19.9.b.6B.a

the signature contained in the photograph or electronic scan complies with the
requirements of paragraph (a) of sub-paragraph (3), and

19.9.b.6B.b

the photograph or electronic scan of the signature is sufficiently clear and
unambiguous so as to comply with the requirements of sub-paragraph (3).

19.9.b.6C

Where an applicant is unable to provide a national insurance number in
accordance with paragraph (1)(aa), the applicant may provide as part of the
application a copy of any of the documents listed in regulation 72B(2) to (4).

19.9.b.6D

The Secretary of State must send to the appropriate registration officer—

19.9.b.6D.a

subject to paragraph (6E), any application the Secretary of State receives via
the digital service,

19.9.b.6D.b

the applicant’s previous name (if any provided),

19.9.b.6D.c

any copy documentation provided by the applicant in accordance with paragraph
(6C), and

19.9.b.6D.d

a reference number unique to that application.

19.9.b.6E

Where an application made through the digital service in accordance with
paragraph (6A) includes the applicant’s national insurance number the
Secretary of State—

19.9.b.6E.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

19.9.b.6E.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

;

19.9.c

in paragraph (7), in sub-paragraph (b), for “(1)(f)” substitute  “(1)(aa) and
(f)” .

19.10

In regulation 63 (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy)—

19.10.a

in paragraph (1), omit “together with that person’s family relationship, if
any, with the applicant,”;

19.10.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

19.10.b.1A

An application for the appointment of a proxy under regulation 52 or 54 must
also include the date of birth of the person that the applicant wishes to
appoint as proxy.

.

19.11

In regulation 68 (additional requirements for applications for a proxy
signature in respect of a particular petition: England and Wales and
Scotland), after paragraph (6) insert—

19.11.6A

Where an application under regulation 53(2) is made after 5pm on the sixth day
before the last day of the signing period for the petition for which it is
made because the circumstances set out in paragraph (4C)(a) of regulation 71
apply, the application must (in addition to providing any other information
required by this Part) state that it is being made because of those
circumstances.

.

19.12

In regulation 71 (closing date for applications: England and Wales and
Scotland)—

19.12.a

in paragraph (4A), after “identification” insert  “or in the circumstances set
out in paragraph (4C)” ;

19.12.b

after paragraph (4B) insert—

19.12.b.4C

The circumstances are that—

19.12.b.4C.a

the applicant submitted the application because an earlier application
submitted by that applicant under regulation 51(2) or 57(6) is to be
disregarded for the purposes of the petition referred to in paragraph (3)
because that earlier application was—

19.12.b.4C.a.i

submitted prior to the deadline of 5pm on the sixth day before the last day of
the signing period for the petition referred to in paragraph (3),

19.12.b.4C.a.ii

submitted via the digital service, and

19.12.b.4C.a.iii

not received by the registration officer until after the deadline of 5pm on
the sixth day before the last day of the signing period for the petition
referred to in paragraph (3) due to a technical defect in the digital service,
or

19.12.b.4C.b

the application referred to in paragraph (3) meets the conditions specified in
paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-paragraph (a).

.

19.13

After regulation 72 (closing date for applications: Northern Ireland) insert—

########## Verification of information provided in an application for absent signing


19.13.72A

19.13.72A.1

On receipt of an application made under Part 4 for absent signing at a
particular petition in England, Wales or Scotland made otherwise than through
the digital service, a registration officer must disclose the applicant’s name
or names, address, date of birth and national insurance number (“the first
stage information”) to the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities in such format and through such an infrastructure system as the
Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may have notified
to the registration officer in writing.

19.13.72A.2

Following receipt of the first stage information from the registration officer
or, in the case of an application made through or partially completed using
the digital service, from an applicant, the Secretary of State for Levelling
Up, Housing and Communities may disclose the first stage information to the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.

19.13.72A.3

Where the first stage information has been disclosed to the Secretary of State
for Work and Pensions under paragraph (2), the Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions may compare it against—

19.13.72A.3.a

the name, address, date of birth and national insurance number of individuals
appearing in the following types of data kept by the Secretary of State—

19.13.72A.3.a.i

data kept for the purposes of functions relating to social security (including
such information kept on behalf of the Department for Social Development); and

19.13.72A.3.a.ii

data relating to working tax credit, child tax credit and child benefit (being
information kept on behalf of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs); and

19.13.72A.3.b

any other information contained in such types of data which relates to the
information disclosed under paragraph (2).

19.13.72A.4

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the first stage information (“the second stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

19.13.72A.5

On receipt of the second stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may disclose that information—

19.13.72A.5.a

to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, or

19.13.72A.5.b

to the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in the
case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates.

19.13.72A.6

Paragraph (3) applies to the second stage information where it has been
disclosed to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under paragraph
(5)(a) as it applies to the first stage information disclosed under paragraph
(2).

19.13.72A.7

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the second stage information (“the third stage information”) to
the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.

19.13.72A.8

On receipt of the third stage information, the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities may—

19.13.72A.8.a

compare the third stage information against the information provided in the
relevant absent voting application, and

19.13.72A.8.b

notify the registration officer to whom the application has been made or, in
the case of an application made through the digital service, the registration
officer appointed for the register to which the application relates, as to
whether the comparison in sub-paragraph (a) resulted in a match.

19.13.72A.9

The registration officer must take into account any information disclosed by,
or notification received from, the Secretary of State for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities in accordance with this regulation when determining
the application.

19.13.72A.10

This regulation does not apply in relation to an application under Part 4 for
absent signing at a particular petition—

19.13.72A.10.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the last day of the signing period for the petition for which it is
made, and

19.13.72A.10.b

where regulation 71(4) or (4A) applies.

19.13.72A.11

In this regulation—

19.13.72A.11.a

“ infrastructure system ” has the meaning given in Schedule 3A to the
Communications Act 2003;

19.13.72A.11.b

the reference in paragraph (1) to the applicant’s address is a reference to
the address contained in the application in accordance with regulation
60(1)(b).

########## Power to request additional evidence in relation to absent signing applications where registration officer considers it necessary


19.13.72B

19.13.72B.1

This regulation applies where, upon receipt of an application under Part 4 for
absent signing at a particular petition in England, Wales or Scotland, a
registration officer considers additional evidence is necessary to verify the
identity of the applicant.

19.13.72B.2

The registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one
of the following documents—

19.13.72B.2.a

the applicant’s passport;

19.13.72B.2.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area;

19.13.72B.2.c

the applicant’s biometric immigration document issued in the United Kingdom in
accordance with regulations made under section 5 of the Borders Act 2007;

19.13.72B.2.d

the applicant’s electoral identity card issued in Northern Ireland; or

19.13.72B.2.e

the applicant’s photocard driving licence granted in the United Kingdom or
driving licence granted by a Crown Dependency, which bears a photograph of the
applicant.

19.13.72B.3

Where an applicant is not able to give one of the documents in paragraph (2),
the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or
where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of—

19.13.72B.3.a

one of the following documents, which, except in relation to paragraph (vii),
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies—

19.13.72B.3.a.i

the applicant’s birth certificate;

19.13.72B.3.a.ii

the applicant’s marriage or civil partnership certificate;

19.13.72B.3.a.iii

the applicant’s adoption certificate;

19.13.72B.3.a.iv

the applicant’s firearms certificate granted under the Firearms Act 1968;

19.13.72B.3.a.v

the record of a decision on bail made in respect of the applicant in
accordance with section 5(1) of the Bail Act 1976;

19.13.72B.3.a.vi

the applicant’s driving licence, which is not in the form of a photocard; or

19.13.72B.3.a.vii

the applicant’s driving licence granted other than in the United Kingdom or
Crown Dependencies, which bears a photograph of the applicant and which must
be valid for at least 12 months from the date the applicant entered the United
Kingdom; and

19.13.72B.3.b

two other documents, each of which may be either from sub-paragraph (a) or
from paragraph (4).

19.13.72B.4

Where the applicant is not able to give documents in accordance with paragraph
(3), the registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy,
or where the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of
four documents, each of which may be any of the following kinds of evidence
and which must bear the applicant’s full name—

19.13.72B.4.a

a financial statement, including but not limited to—

19.13.72B.4.a.i

a mortgage statement;

19.13.72B.4.a.ii

a bank or building society statement or a letter from a bank or building
society confirming that the applicant has opened an account with that bank or
building society;

19.13.72B.4.a.iii

a credit card statement;

19.13.72B.4.a.iv

a pension statement;

19.13.72B.4.b

a council tax demand letter or statement;

19.13.72B.4.c

a utility bill;

19.13.72B.4.d

a Form P45 or Form P60 issued to the applicant by their employer or former
employer;

19.13.72B.4.e

a statement of benefits or entitlement to benefits, such as a statement of
child benefit, within the meaning of section 141 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, or a letter confirming that the applicant
is entitled to housing benefit, within the meaning of section 130 of that Act.

19.13.72B.5

Where the applicant is registered, or has applied to be registered, in a
register of parliamentary electors in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration—

19.13.72B.5.a

paragraph (3) applies as if, in sub-paragraph (a)(vii), the words from “and
which must” to “Kingdom” were omitted;

19.13.72B.5.b

paragraph (4) applies as if after “kinds of evidence” there were inserted  “,
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies” .

19.13.72B.6

If an applicant is unable to give the documentary evidence required under
paragraphs (2) to (4), the registration officer may require that the applicant
give an attestation which must—

19.13.72B.6.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application,

19.13.72B.6.b

be in writing and signed by a qualifying attestor,

19.13.72B.6.c

state the qualifying attestor’s full name, date of birth, occupation,
residential address and (if different) the address in respect of which the
qualifying attestor is registered as an elector,

19.13.72B.6.d

state—

19.13.72B.6.d.i

where the qualifying attestor is registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, the attestor’s British passport number together with
its date and place of issue;

19.13.72B.6.d.ii

otherwise—

19.13.72B.6.d.ii.aa

where the qualifying attestor is registered in respect of an address in
Northern Ireland and has been allocated a digital registration number in
accordance with section 10B of the 1983 Act (register of electors in Northern
Ireland: digital registration number), that digital registration number,

19.13.72B.6.d.ii.bb

in all other cases, the qualifying attestor’s electoral number,

19.13.72B.6.e

include an explanation as to the qualifying attestor’s ability to confirm that
the applicant is the person named in the application, including (but not
limited to) the qualifying attestor’s connection to the applicant and the
length of time that that connection has existed,

19.13.72B.6.f

include—

19.13.72B.6.f.i

an indication that the qualifying attestor is aware of section 13D(1) of the
1983 Act (offence of provision of false information to a registration
officer), and

19.13.72B.6.f.ii

a declaration by the qualifying attestor that all information provided in the
attestation is true, and

19.13.72B.6.g

state the date on which it is made.

19.13.72B.7

In paragraph (6), a “qualifying attestor” is a person—

19.13.72B.7.a

where the applicant is or is to be registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, who is aged 18 or over,

19.13.72B.7.b

who is not the spouse, civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister,
child or grandchild of the applicant,

19.13.72B.7.c

who is—

19.13.72B.7.c.i

where the applicant is or is to be registered in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration, registered as an elector,

19.13.72B.7.c.ii

otherwise—

19.13.72B.7.c.ii.aa

where the applicant is or is to be registered in a local authority area in
England or Wales, registered as an elector in a local authority in England or
Wales,

19.13.72B.7.c.ii.bb

where the applicant is or is to be registered in a local authority area in
Scotland, registered as an elector in a local authority area in Scotland,

19.13.72B.7.d

except where the person is registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration, whom the registration officer is satisfied is of good standing in
the community, and

19.13.72B.7.e

who has not already signed a relevant identity attestation for two other
applicants since, whichever is the later,—

19.13.72B.7.e.i

the date on which the revised register in which the qualifying attestor’s name
appears was last published under section 13(1) of the 1983 Act; or

19.13.72B.7.e.ii

the date on which a notice specifying the qualifying attestor’s entry in the
register was issued under (as the case may be) section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B or
13BC of that Act (and if there has been more than one such notice, the date on
which the last one was issued).

19.13.72B.8

In paragraph (7)(e), a “relevant identity attestation” is an attestation
provided in accordance with—

19.13.72B.8.a

sub-paragraph (6);

19.13.72B.8.b

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the 2001 Regulations;

19.13.72B.8.c

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the Representation of the People (Scotland)
Regulations 2001;

19.13.72B.8.d

paragraph 16C(5) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections
Order 2012;

19.13.72B.8.e

regulation 7(6) of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

19.13.72B.9

Paragraphs (2) to (6) do not apply where the applicant is registered, or has
applied to be registered, in the register of electors in pursuance of the
following declarations—

19.13.72B.9.a

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a Crown servant or
the spouse or civil partner of a Crown servant;

19.13.72B.9.b

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is a member of the
forces; or

19.13.72B.9.c

a service declaration on the grounds that the applicant is the spouse or civil
partner of a member of the forces.

19.13.72B.10

In the case of an application to which paragraph (9)(a) or (c) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give them a copy, or where
the registration officer considers it appropriate, the original, of one of the
following documents, which has been certified by a Crown servant or British
Council employee or an officer of the forces, who is not the applicant’s
spouse or civil partner—

19.13.72B.10.a

the applicant’s passport; or

19.13.72B.10.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area.

19.13.72B.11

In the case of an application to which paragraph (9)(b) applies, the
registration officer may require that the applicant give an attestation which
must—

19.13.72B.11.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the application;

19.13.72B.11.b

be in writing and signed by an officer of the forces who is not the spouse,
civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, child or grandchild of
the applicant;

19.13.72B.11.c

state the full name, address and rank of the person signing the attestation
and the service (whether naval, military or air forces) in which they serve;
and

19.13.72B.11.d

state the date on which it is made.

19.13.72B.12

In this regulation—

“ Crown Dependency ” means the Bailiwick of Jersey, the Bailiwick of Guernsey
or the Isle of Man; “ Crown servant ” has the meaning given by regulation 14
of the 2001 Regulations; “ member of the forces ” has the same meaning as in
section 59(1) of the 1983 Act; “ officer of the forces ” means a member of the
forces who is an officer.

19.13.72B.13

This paragraph does not apply in relation to an application under Part 4 for
absent signing at a particular petition—

19.13.72B.13.a

which is received by the registration officer after 5pm on the sixth day
before the last day of the signing period for the petition for which it is
made, and

19.13.72B.13.b

where regulation 71(4) or (4A) applies.

########## Processing of information provided in connection with absent signing applications


19.13.72C

19.13.72C.1

If a person provides an original document under regulation 72B, the
registration officer must make a copy of that document and return the original
document to the person who provided it.

19.13.72C.2

In respect of an application under Part 4 for absent signing at a particular
petition in England, Wales or Scotland, the registration officer must retain
until the application has been determined—

19.13.72C.2.a

the application form or, in the case of an application made through the
digital service, the information contained in the application transmitted to
the registration officer by the Secretary of State;

19.13.72C.2.b

any other information or documents provided to the registration officer in
connection with the application or, in the case of original documents which
are returned under paragraph (1), a copy of such documents.

19.13.72C.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the registration officer may retain the application
form, information and documents in paragraph (2) after the application has
been determined but, if they do so, must delete the applicant’s national
insurance number from the application form, information and documents in
paragraph (2) by no later than the date which is 13 months from the date on
which the registration officer determined the application for absent signing.

19.13.72C.4

The requirement to delete the national insurance number in paragraph (3) does
not apply where the application, information and documents in paragraph (2)
are required for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

19.13.72C.5

Information disclosed under regulation 72A must not be disclosed to any other
person, except—

19.13.72C.5.a

for the purpose of determining the application for absent signing in
connection with which the information was disclosed, or

19.13.72C.5.b

for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

19.13.72C.6

A person who discloses information in breach of paragraph (5) is guilty of an
offence and liable—

19.13.72C.6.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or to a fine (or both);

19.13.72C.6.b

on summary conviction—

19.13.72C.6.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, or to a fine (or both);

19.13.72C.6.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine
not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

19.13.72C.7

Any information disclosed under regulation 72A must be processed in accordance
with any requirements as to the processing of information that may have been
imposed by the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities in
writing in advance of that processing, including requirements as to the
transfer, storage, destruction and security of that information.

19.13.72C.8

In this regulation, “ copy ” includes an electronic copy.

.

19.14

In regulation 73 (grant or refusal of applications)—

19.14.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

19.14.a.1

Where the registration officer grants an application to sign the petition by
post, the registration officer must notify the applicant of—

19.14.a.1.a

that decision,

19.14.a.1.b

where the entitlement to sign by post is for a particular petition, the date
on which the signing period for that petition ends, and

19.14.a.1.c

where the application relates to the signing of a petition or petitions in
England, Wales or Scotland and the entitlement to sign by post is for a
particular period, the date on which the entitlement ends.

;

19.14.b

after paragraph (8) insert—

19.14.b.9

Paragraphs (10) to (12) apply where—

19.14.b.9.a

regulation 61 applies to an application to sign by post, or would have applied
if paragraph (3) of that regulation were ignored, or

19.14.b.9.b

regulation 62 applies to such an application, or would have applied if
paragraph (3) of that regulation were ignored.

19.14.b.10

A notification under paragraph (1) or (4) to one of the following types of
applicants must also include a statement that a signing sheet will be sent to
the signing sheet delivery address—

19.14.b.10.a

an applicant registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration;

19.14.b.10.b

an applicant registered in pursuance of a service declaration;

19.14.b.10.c

an applicant registered in pursuance of a declaration of local connection
(within the meaning of section 7B of the 1983 Act);

19.14.b.10.d

an applicant who is a merchant seaman (within the meaning of section 6 of the
1983 Act);

19.14.b.10.e

an applicant who has an anonymous entry.

19.14.b.11

Where sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) of paragraph (10) do not apply to the
applicant, the registration officer must, in addition to notifying the
applicant in accordance with paragraphs (1), (3), (4) or (7), notify the
applicant in writing that—

19.14.b.11.a

the application has been granted, refused or disregarded, and

19.14.b.11.b

where the application has been granted, that a signing sheet will be sent to
the signing sheet delivery address.

19.14.b.12

A notification under paragraph (11) must be delivered to—

19.14.b.12.a

where paragraph (9)(b) applies and the notification is to be delivered to—

19.14.b.12.a.i

a person shown as voting by post in the record kept under paragraph 7(6) of
Schedule 4 or section 9(6) of the 1985 Act , or

19.14.b.12.a.ii

a person shown as signing by post in the record kept under regulation 58(7),

the address shown in that record;

19.14.b.12.b

otherwise—

19.14.b.12.b.i

the address stated in the application in accordance with regulation 60(1)(b),
or

19.14.b.12.b.ii

the proxy’s address stated in the application in accordance with regulation
60(1)(c).

19.14.b.13

In paragraphs (10) and (11), the “ signing sheet delivery address ” means—

19.14.b.13.a

where paragraph (9)(a) applies, the address stated in the application in
accordance with regulation 60(1)(d);

19.14.b.13.b

where paragraph (9)(b) applies, the different address described in regulation
62(2).

.

19.15

After regulation 73 insert—

########## Notification postal signing entitlement is to end


19.15.73A

19.15.73A.1

This regulation applies in respect of a person who remains entitled to sign
petitions held in England, Wales or Scotland by virtue of a postal signing
entitlement which was granted for the maximum period (“ the relevant person
”).

19.15.73A.2

The registration officer must, before the end of the maximum period, send to
the relevant person—

19.15.73A.2.a

a notice informing the person of the date on which the person’s entitlement to
sign by post is to end, and

19.15.73A.2.b

information about how to make a fresh application to sign by post (as a person
on the person’s own behalf or, as the case may be, as proxy).

19.15.73A.3

In this regulation—

“ maximum period ” means the period described in regulation 51(1A)(a) or
(1B)(a) or 58(6A)(a); “ postal signing entitlement ” means an entitlement to
sign by post at recall petitions resulting from the grant of an application
under regulation 51(1) or (7) or 58(5).

.

19.16

In regulation 119 (other signing offences)—

19.16.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

19.16.a.1A

A person (“ P ”) is guilty of an offence if P applies for the appointment of a
proxy to sign a petition for P—

19.16.a.1A.a

where P knows that the person to be appointed is already appointed as proxy to
sign that petition for four or more other persons;

19.16.a.1A.b

where—

19.16.a.1A.b.i

P is or will be registered in the register otherwise than in pursuance of an
overseas electors declaration or as a service voter; and

19.16.a.1A.b.ii

P knows that the person to be appointed is already appointed as proxy to sign
that petition, or petitions, for two or more other persons none of whom is
registered in the register in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration
or as a service voter;

19.16.a.1A.c

where P knows that the person to be appointed is already appointed as proxy to
sign a petition or petitions for four or more other persons;

19.16.a.1A.d

where—

19.16.a.1A.d.i

P is or will be registered in the register otherwise than in pursuance of an
overseas electors declaration or as a service voter; and

19.16.a.1A.d.ii

P knows that the person to be appointed is already appointed to sign a
petition or petitions, for two or more other persons none of whom is
registered in the register in pursuance of an overseas elector’s declaration
or as a service voter.

;

19.16.b

for paragraph (4) substitute—

19.16.b.4

A person (“ P ”) is guilty of an offence if P signs a petition as proxy—

19.16.b.4.a

for more than four persons, or

19.16.b.4.b

for more than two persons where P knows that more than two of those persons
are registered in the register otherwise than in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration or as a service voter.

.

19.17

In regulation 143 (electronic signatures and related certificates), for
paragraph (4) substitute—

19.17.4

This regulation does not apply—

19.17.4.a

in relation to an application made under Part 4 for absent signing at a
particular petition in England, Wales or Scotland, for which the general
requirements are set out in regulation 60, or

19.17.4.b

to the provision of signatures under regulation 27 (signing procedure: England
and Wales and Scotland) or regulation 28 (signing procedure: Northern Ireland)
which must be given by hand.

.

19.18

In Schedule 2 (forms)—

19.18.a

in Part 1 (United Kingdom), for Form D (official petition notice for an
elector who may sign the petition in person), Form F (official petition notice
for a proxy who may sign the petition in person) and Form J (proxy paper)
substitute the corresponding forms in Part 1 of Schedule 10;

19.18.b

in Part 3 (Northern Ireland), for Form D (official petition notice for an
elector who may sign the petition in person), Form F (official petition notice
for a proxy who may sign the petition in person) and Form J (proxy paper)
substitute the corresponding forms in Part 2 of Schedule 10.

#### Amendment of the Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017


20

20.1

The Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017  is amended as
follows.

20.2

Schedule 1 (combined authority mayoral elections rules) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4).

20.3

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

20.3.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “(where applicable) the person has
answered the previous question in the manner indicated, and” ;

20.3.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

20.3.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

20.3.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

20.3.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

20.3.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

20.3.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

20.3.b.ii

omit entry 4;

20.3.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

20.4

In Part 9 (appendix of forms), for Form 8 (elector’s official poll card) and
Form 10 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding forms in Part
1 of Schedule 11.

20.5

In Schedule 2 (modifications of Acts and statutory instrument), in paragraph 1
(the Representation of the People Act 1983), in sub-paragraph (15)—

20.5.a

in paragraph (b), the inserted subsection (3B) is renumbered as subsection
(3AA);

20.5.b

in paragraph (ba), for “(3B)” substitute  “(3AA)” .

20.6

Schedule 3 (combined authority mayoral elections (combination of polls) rules)
is amended in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8).

20.7

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

20.7.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after “put if” insert  “the person has answered the
previous question in the manner indicated (where applicable), and” ;

20.7.b

in the table following paragraph (1)—

20.7.b.i

in entries 2 and 3, in the column headed “Question”, for question (c)
substitute—

20.7.b.i.c

Disregarding any parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner
election, have you already voted as proxy at this election or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, whether here or
elsewhere in this electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of
four or more electors? [R]

20.7.b.i.d

If the person answers question (c) in the negative: “Disregarding any
parliamentary election or police and crime commissioner election, have you
already voted as proxy at this election or any other election or referendum
for which the day of poll is today, whether here or elsewhere in this
electoral area or anywhere else in England, on behalf of two or more
electors?” [R]

20.7.b.i.e

If the person answers question (d) in the affirmative: “Were two or more of
the electors on whose behalf you have voted in this election, or any other
election or referendum for which the day of poll is today, registered in a
register of electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?”
[R]

20.7.b.i.f

If the person answers question (e) in the affirmative: “Is the elector (or are
the electors) for whom you are voting today registered in a register of
electors otherwise than in pursuance of a service declaration?” [R]

;

20.7.b.ii

omit entry 4;

20.7.c

in paragraph (2), for “3(a), (b) and (c)” substitute  “3(a) and (b)” .

20.8

In Part 9 (appendix of forms), for Form 8 (elector’s official poll card) and
Form 10 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding forms in Part
2 of Schedule 11.

#### Amendment of the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021


21

In the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021—

21.a

in Schedule 1 (Welsh versions of forms of words), for Part 2 substitute the
new Part 2 as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 12;

21.b

in Schedule 3 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms), for Form 1
(proxy paper), Form 11 (official poll card) and Form 13 (official proxy poll
card) substitute the corresponding forms set out in Part 2 of Schedule 12.

#### Amendment of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022


22

22.1

The Voter Identification Regulations 2022 are amended as follows.

22.2

In regulation 5 (identity document applications made through the digital
service)—

22.2.a

in paragraph (3), after “receives” insert  “, subject to paragraph (4),” ;

22.2.b

after paragraph (3) insert—

22.2.b.4

Where an application made through the digital service includes the applicant’s
national insurance number the Secretary of State—

22.2.b.4.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

22.2.b.4.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

.

22.3

In regulation 6 (verification of information provided in an identity document
application), in paragraphs (4) and (7), after “Secretary” in the second place
it occurs insert  “of State” .

22.4

In regulation 7 (power to request additional evidence where certain
information is unavailable or where the registration officer considers it
necessary)—

22.4.a

in paragraph (7)(d), for “attestations under this regulation” substitute  “a
relevant identity attestation” ;

22.4.b

after paragraph (7) insert—

22.4.b.7A

In paragraph (7)(d), a relevant identity attestation is an attestation
provided in accordance with—

22.4.b.7A.a

paragraph (6);

22.4.b.7A.b

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the Representation of the People (England and
Wales) Regulations 2001;

22.4.b.7A.c

regulation 26B(6) or 56C(6) of the Representation of the People (Scotland)
Regulations 2001;

22.4.b.7A.d

paragraph 16C(5) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections
Order 2012;

22.4.b.7A.e

regulation 72B(6) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations
2016.

.

22.5

In regulation 14 (processing of information provided in connection with an
identity document application), in paragraph (2)(a), after “application” in
the third place it occurs insert  “transmitted to the registration officer by
the Secretary of State” .

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Jacob Young   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     25th October 2023

  Enabling Powers

Preamble

  These Regulations are made under the following powers—     a     the
following provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1983—     i
sections 9B(1A), 10ZC(3), 53(1)(ba) and (c) and (4) and 201(3) ;         ii
in Schedule 1, rule 28(3) and (3A) ;         iii     in Schedule 2, paragraphs
1(2) and (2A), 1A(1), (2), (3) and (6), 3, 3ZA(1), (2A)(a) and (3), 4(2),
5ZA(1), (2)(a), (b) and (d), (3) and (4), 5A(1) and (4), 8C(1), 12 and 13(1ZB)
and (2) ;             b     section 15(5) of the Representation of the People
Act 1985;         c     paragraph 16 of Schedule 4B to the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990;         d     sections 52ZQ(1) and 113(1) and (2) of the
Local Government Finance Act 1992 ;         e     paragraphs 3(1)(b) and
(2)(c), 4(1)(b) and (2)(c), 6(7), (8) and (9) and 7B of Schedule 4 to the
Representation of the People Act 2000 ;         f     sections 9HE(1), 9MG(2)
to (5) and 105(2) of the Local Government Act 2000 ;         g     sections
114(1) and 117(1A) of, and paragraphs 12(1) and (3) of Schedule 5B to, the
Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 ;         h
sections 58(1) (including as extended by section 26(3) of the Welsh Language
Act 1993 ) and 154(5) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011
;         i     sections 18(1) and 21(3) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 .

  Transitional provisions and savings

Regulation 1(7)

##### Introduction


###### Interpretation


1

In this Schedule “ EA 2022 ” means the Elections Act 2022 .

##### Provisions related to the 2001 Regulations and related to Parliamentary elections


###### Interpretation


2

In this Part—

      “ the 2001 Regulations ” means the Representation of the People (England
and Wales) Regulations 2001 and the Representation of the People (Scotland)
Regulations 2001;           “ ongoing parliamentary election ” means a
relevant parliamentary election for which the date of poll as stated in the
notice of election is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ relevant
parliamentary election ” means a parliamentary election for which the notice
of election is published in accordance with rule 5 of Schedule 1 to the
Representation of the People Act 1983  on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Requirement to notify that postal vote entitlement is to end where entitlement altered by paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to EA 2022


3

Regulation 60ZA of the 2001 Regulations (as inserted by regulations  5(10)  or
10(10) ) applies in respect of a postal vote entitlement to which the
transitional provision in paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to EA 2022 applies as it
applies to a postal vote entitlement which was granted for the maximum period.

###### Poll card forms for certain parliamentary elections


4

4.1

The amendments made by regulations  6(b)  and  11(b)  do not apply in respect
of an ongoing parliamentary election.

4.2

In respect of a relevant parliamentary election—

4.2.a

Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person) and Form
B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)
in Schedule 3 to the 2001 Regulations apply as if, on the front of the form,
before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were
inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” ;

4.2.b

Form A1 (official postal poll card (to be sent to an elector voting by post))
and Form B1 (official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting by post) in Schedule 3 to the 2001 Regulations apply as if, on the back
of the form, before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election”
there were inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October
2023)” .

4.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies in respect of a parliamentary election for which—

4.3.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with rule 5 of Schedule 1 to
the Representation of the People Act 1983  on or after 31st January 2024, and

4.3.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

4.4

Form A1 (official postal poll card (to be sent to an elector voting by post))
and Form B1 (official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting by post)) in Schedule 3 to the 2001 Regulations apply as if, on the
back of the form, for the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election”
and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

.

###### Proxy paper form for certain proxy appointments


5

5.1

This paragraph applies where a proxy appointment is made during the period—

5.1.a

beginning with 31st October 2023, and

5.1.b

ending with 5th March 2024.

5.2

Form E1 (proxy paper), as inserted into Schedule 3 to the 2001 Regulations by
regulation  6(d)  or  11(d)  applies as if, on the last page, in note 1,
before “on behalf of more than four electors” there were inserted  “(in
relation to an election or referendum for which the poll is on or after 5th
March 2024)” .

5.3

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” has the same meaning as in paragraph
8(8) of Schedule 4 to EA 2022.

###### Savings for certain parliamentary elections combined with other elections or referendums


6

The amendments made by regulations  12  and  13  do not apply in respect of an
ongoing parliamentary election.

##### Local authority mayoral elections


###### Interpretation


7

In this Part—

      “ mayoral election rules ” means the rules set out in Schedules 1 and 3
to the Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations
2007;           “ ongoing local authority mayoral election ” means a relevant
local authority mayoral election for which the date of poll as specified in
the notice of election is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ relevant
local authority mayoral election ” means an election in England for the return
of an elected mayor as defined by section 9H(1) of the Local Government Act
2000  for which the notice of election is published in accordance with rule 5
of the mayoral election rules on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain local authority mayoral elections


8

8.1

The amendments made by regulation  14(3)  and (7) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing local authority mayoral election.

8.2

Rule 35 of the mayoral election rules applies in respect of a relevant local
authority mayoral election as if—

8.2.a

in the table following paragraph (1)—

8.2.a.i

in entry 2 (proxy), in the column headed “Question”—

8.2.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

8.2.a.i.aa.ba

At a mayoral election held in England: “Were you appointed as proxy on behalf
of CD before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

8.2.a.i.bb

in question (c), after “in Wales” there were inserted  “in all cases, and at a
mayoral election in England where the person answers question (ba) in the
positive” ;

8.2.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for an anonymous elector), in the column headed “Question”—

8.2.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

8.2.a.ii.aa.ba

At a mayoral election held in England: “Were you appointed as proxy on behalf
of the person whose number on the register of elections is ( read out the
number from the register ) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

8.2.a.ii.bb

in question (c), after “in Wales” there were inserted  “in all cases, and at a
mayoral election in England where the person answers question (ba) in the
positive” ;

8.2.b

in paragraph (2), after “3(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Poll card forms for certain local authority mayoral elections


9

9.1

The amendments made by regulation  14(5)  and (9) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing local authority mayoral election.

9.2

Form 8A (elector’s official poll card (for use at mayoral elections in
England)) and Form 10A (official proxy poll card (for use at mayoral elections
in England)) in the mayoral election rules apply in respect of a relevant
local authority mayoral election as if, on the front of the form, before the
text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in
the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

9.3

Form 9 (official postal poll card) and Form 11 (official proxy postal poll
card) in the mayoral election rules apply in respect of a relevant local
authority mayoral election as if on the back of the form, before the text that
begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in the case
of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

9.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies in respect of an election in England for the return
of an elected mayor as defined by section 9H(1) of the Local Government Act
2000  for which—

9.4.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with rule 5 of the mayoral
election rules on or after 31st January 2024, and

9.4.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

9.5

Form 9 (official postal poll card) and Form 11 (official proxy postal poll
card) in the mayoral election rules apply as if, on the back of the form, for
the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” and ends with
“grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

.

##### Referendums under Part 1A of the Local Government Act 2000


###### Interpretation


10

In this Part—

      “ 2012 Regulations ” means the Local Authorities (Conduct of
Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012;           “ ongoing referendum ”
means a relevant referendum for which the date of poll as specified in the
notice of referendum is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ referendum
” means a referendum under Part 1A of the Local Government Act 2000 ;
“ referendum rules ” means the rules set out in Schedules 3 and 5 to the 2012
Regulations;           “ relevant referendum ” means a referendum for which
the notice of referendum is published in accordance with rule 5 of the
referendum rules on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain referendums


11

11.1

The amendments made by regulation  15(3)  and (7) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing referendum.

11.2

Rule 24 of Schedule 3 and rule 26 of Schedule 5 to the 2012 Regulations
(questions to be put to voters and proxies) apply in respect of a relevant
referendum subject to the modifications in sub-paragraph (3).

11.3

The rule applies as if—

11.3.a

in the table following paragraph (1)—

11.3.a.i

in entry 2 (proxy), in the column headed “Question”—

11.3.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were substituted—

11.3.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of CD before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

11.3.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

11.3.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for a voter with an anonymous entry), in the column headed
“Question”—

11.3.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

11.3.a.ii.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is ( read out the number ) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

11.3.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

11.3.b

in paragraph (2), after “(3)(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Disapplication of amendments to the modifications of section 61 of the Representation of the People Act 1983 in respect of an ongoing referendum


12

12.1

The amendments made by regulation  15(5)(a)(ii)  and (iii) to Table 1
(modifications to the Representation of the People Act 1983) in Schedule 4 to
the 2012 Regulations do not apply in respect of a person voting by virtue of a
proxy appointment at an ongoing referendum.

12.2

In sub-paragraph (1), “ proxy appointment ” has the same meaning as in
paragraph 8(8) of Schedule 4 to EA 2022.

###### Poll card forms for certain referendums


13

13.1

The amendments made by regulation  15(4)  and (8) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing referendum.

13.2

The form of the Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)
and the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person) in the referendum rules apply in respect of a relevant referendum as
if, on the front of the form, before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at
this referendum” there were inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed
before 31st October 2023)” .

13.3

The form of the Official Postal Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting by
post) and the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed
proxy voting by post) in the referendum rules apply in respect of a relevant
referendum as if, on the back of the form, before the text that begins “vote
as a proxy at the same referendum” there were inserted  “(in the case of a
proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

13.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies in respect of a referendum for which—

13.4.a

the notice of referendum is published in accordance with rule 5 of the
referendum rules on or after 31st January 2024, and

13.4.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

13.5

The form of the Official Postal Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting by
post) and the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed
proxy voting by post) in the referendum rules apply as if, on the back of the
form, for the text that begins “vote as a proxy at the same referendum” and
ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four voters, of which no more than two may be on
behalf of other domestic voters (a domestic voter is one who is not an
overseas or service voter)

.

##### Referendums under Chapter 4ZA of Part 1 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992


###### Interpretation


14

In this Part—

      “ 2012 Regulations ” means the Local Authorities (Conduct of
Referendums) (Council Tax Increases) (England) Regulations 2012;           “
ongoing referendum ” means a relevant referendum for which the date of poll as
specified in the notice of referendum is on or after 31st January 2024;
“ referendum ” means a referendum under Chapter 4ZA of Part 1 of the Local
Government Finance Act 1992 ;           “ referendum rules ” means the rules
set out in Schedules 3 and 5 to the 2012 Regulations;           “ relevant
referendum ” means a referendum for which the notice of referendum is
published in accordance with rule 5 of the referendum rules on or before 30th
January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain referendums


15

15.1

The amendments made by regulation  16(3)  and (7) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing referendum.

15.2

Rule 24 of Schedule 3 and rule 26 of Schedule 5 to the 2012 Regulations
(questions to be put to voters and proxies) apply in respect of a relevant
referendum subject to the modifications in sub-paragraph (3).

15.3

The rule applies as if—

15.3.a

in the table following paragraph (1)—

15.3.a.i

in entry 2 (proxy), in the column headed “Questions”—

15.3.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were substituted—

15.3.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of CD before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

15.3.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

15.3.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for a voter with an anonymous entry), in the column headed
“Questions”—

15.3.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

15.3.a.ii.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is ( read out the number ) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

15.3.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

15.3.b

in paragraph (2), after “(3)(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Disapplication of amendments to the modifications of section 61 of the Representation of the People Act 1983 in respect of an ongoing referendum


16

16.1

The amendments made by regulation 16 (5)(a)(ii)  and (iii) to Table 1
(modifications to the Representation of the People Act 1983) in Schedule 4 to
the 2012 Regulations do not apply in respect of a person voting by virtue of a
proxy appointment at an ongoing referendum.

16.2

In sub-paragraph (1), “ proxy appointment ” has the same meaning as in
paragraph 8(8) of Schedule 4 to EA 2022.

###### Poll card forms for certain referendums


17

17.1

The amendments made by regulation  16(4)  and (8) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing referendum.

17.2

The Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in person) and the
Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)
in the referendum rules apply in respect of a relevant referendum as if, on
the front of the form, before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this
referendum” there were inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before
31st October 2023)” .

17.3

The form of the Official Postal Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting by
post) and the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed
proxy voting by post) in the referendum rules apply in respect of a relevant
referendum as if, on the back of the form, before the text that begins “vote
as a proxy at the same referendum” there were inserted  “(in the case of a
proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

17.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies in respect of a referendum for which—

17.4.a

the notice of referendum is published in accordance with rule 5 of the
referendum rules on or after 31st January 2024, and

17.4.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

17.5

The form of the Official Postal Poll Card (to be send to a voter voting by
post) and the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed
proxy voting by post) in the referendum rules apply as if, on the back of the
form, for the text that begins “vote as a proxy at the same referendum” and
ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four voters, of which no more than two may be on
behalf of other domestic voters (a domestic voter is one who is not an
overseas or service voter)

.

##### Police and Crime Commissioner elections: general


###### Interpretation


18

In this Part—

      “ 2012 Order ” means the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order
2012;           “ ongoing PCC election ” means a relevant PCC election for
which the date of poll as specified in the notice of election is on or after
31st January 2024;           “ PCC election ” has the meaning given in article
2(1) of the 2012 Order;           “ relevant PCC election ” means a PCC
election for which the notice of election is published in accordance with rule
4 of Schedule 3 to the 2012 Order on or before 30th January 2024;           “
transitional period ” means the period—         beginning with 31st October
2023, and           ending with—         for the purposes of an ongoing PCC
election, the day after the day of poll for that election;           for all
other purposes, 31st January 2024.

###### Proxy voting offences and restrictions for certain proxy appointments


19

19.1

Article 18(4) of, and paragraph 6(5) of Schedule 2 to, the 2012 Order do not
apply in respect of a post-commencement proxy appointment during the
transitional period.

19.2

The amendments made by regulation  17(3)(b)  and (5)(c) do not apply in
respect of a person voting by virtue of a proxy appointment at an ongoing PCC
election.

19.3

In this paragraph—

      “ post-commencement proxy appointment ” means a proxy appointment as a
result of an application made on or after 31st October 2023;           “ proxy
appointment ” means—         an appointment resulting from an application
under paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of the People Act
2000 by which, by virtue of paragraphs 2 and 4(3) of Schedule 2 to the 2012
Order, a person is entitled to vote at a PCC election by proxy;           an
appointment resulting from an application under paragraph 3(2), (3) or (5)(b)
of Schedule 2 to the 2012 Order.

###### Saving for certain  

20

The amendments made by regulation 17(5)(a)   , (b) and (ca) , other than
regulation 17(5)(b)(i)(bb), do not apply in respect of an ongoing PCC election
in Wales.

###### Questions for proxies at certain PCC elections


21

21.1

The amendments made by regulations  17(7)  and 21(a) do not apply to an
ongoing PCC election.

21.2

Sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) apply in respect of a relevant PCC election.

21.3

Rule 37 of Schedule 3 to the 2012 Order applies as if in the Table after
paragraph (1)—

21.3.a

in entry 2 (proxies), in the column headed “Questions”—

21.3.a.i

after question (b) there were inserted—

21.3.a.i.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of CD before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

21.3.a.ii

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

21.3.b

in entry 3 (proxy for an elector with an anonymous entry), in the column
headed “Questions”—

21.3.b.i

after question (b) there were inserted—

21.3.b.i.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is ( read out the number ) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

21.3.b.ii

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”.

21.4

Schedule 1 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order
2021 applies as if for Part 2 there were substituted Part 2 as set out in Part
7 of this Schedule.

###### Proxy paper form for certain proxy appointments


22

22.1

This paragraph applies where a proxy appointment is made during the period—

22.1.a

beginning with 31st October 2023, and

22.1.b

ending with 5th March 2024.

22.2

Form 1 (proxy paper), as inserted into Part 4 of Schedule 2 to the 2012 Order
by regulation  17(5)(l)  applies as if before “on behalf of more than four
electors” there were inserted  “(in relation to an election for which the poll
is on or after 5th March 2024)” .

22.3

Form 1, as inserted into Schedule 3 to the Police and Crime Commissioner
Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021 by regulation  21(b)  applies as if—

22.3.a

before “on behalf of more than four electors” there were inserted “(in
relation to an election for which the poll is on or after 5th March 2024)”;

22.3.b

before “an ran mwy na phedwar etholwr” there were inserted “(mewn perthynas ag
etholiad y mae’r dyddiad pleidleisio ar ei gyfer ar neu ar ôl 5 Mawrth 2024)”.

22.4

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” means a proxy appointment under
paragraph 3(2), (3) or (5)(b) of Schedule 2 to the 2012 Order.

###### Poll card forms for certain PCC elections


23

23.1

The amendments made by regulation  17(8)  and regulation  21(b) , so far as
substituting forms 11 and 13, do not apply in respect of an ongoing PCC
election.

23.2

Form 11 (official poll card) and form 13 (official proxy poll card) in rule 70
of Schedule 3 to the 2012 Order apply in respect of a relevant PCC election as
if, on the front of the form, before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at
this election” there were inserted  “(in the case of a proxy appointed before
31st October 2023)” .

23.3

Form 12 (official postal poll card) and form 14 (official postal proxy poll
card) in rule 70 of Schedule 3 to the 2012 Order apply in respect of a
relevant PCC election as if, on the back of the form, before the text that
begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in the case
of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

23.4

Form 11 (official poll card) and form 13 (official proxy poll card) in
Schedule 3 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order
2021 apply in respect of a relevant PCC election as if, on the front of the
form—

23.4.a

before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were
inserted “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)”;

23.4.b

before the text that begins “I bleidleisio fel dirprwy yn yr etholiad” there
were inserted “(yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31 Hydref 2023)”.

23.5

Form 12 (official postal poll card) and form 14 (official postal proxy poll
card) in in Schedule 3 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh
Forms) Order 2021 apply in respect of a relevant PCC election as if, on the
back of the form—

23.5.a

before the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were
inserted “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)”;

23.5.b

before the text that begins “pleidleisio fel dirprwy i fwy na” there were
inserted “(yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31 Hydref 2023)”.

###### Termination of certain proxy appointments


24

24.1

This paragraph applies where a proxy appointment is in force immediately
before 31st January 2024 as the result of an application made before 31st
October 2023.

24.2

The proxy appointment ceases to have effect on 31st January 2024.

24.3

The registration officer must, before 31st January 2024, send the person who
is entitled to vote by proxy by means of the proxy appointment—

24.3.a

a notice informing the person that the appointment ceases to have effect as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b) on 31st January 2024, and

24.3.b

information about how to make a fresh application to vote by proxy.

24.4

As soon as practicable after 31st January 2024, the registration officer must
alter the record kept under paragraph 3(8) of Schedule 2 to the 2012 Order as
necessary to reflect the change to the proxy appointment resulting from sub-
paragraph (2).

24.5

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” means a proxy appointment under
paragraph 3(2), (3) or (5)(b) of Schedule 2 to the 2012 Order.

###### Termination of applications for certain proxy appointments


25

25.1

An application for a proxy appointment that is made before, but not determined
by, 31st October 2023 is to be treated as not having been made.

25.2

The registration officer must, as soon as practicable, send each person whose
application is affected by sub-paragraph (1) information about how to make a
fresh application to vote by proxy.

25.3

In sub-paragraph (1), “ proxy appointment ” means a proxy appointment under
paragraph 3(2), (3) or (5)(b) of Schedule 2 to the 2012 Order.

###### Saving for certain proxy appointments at ongoing PCC elections


26

26.1

This paragraph applies where—

26.1.a

a proxy appointment ceases to have effect in accordance with paragraph 8 of
Schedule 4 to EA 2022 or paragraph  24  of this Schedule, and

26.1.b

ignoring the effect of that paragraph, a person would have been entitled by
virtue of that appointment to vote as proxy at an ongoing PCC election.

26.2

Despite the effect of paragraph 8(2) of Schedule 4 to EA 2022 or paragraph
22(2) of this Schedule, the proxy appointment continues to have effect for the
purposes of the ongoing PCC election.

26.3

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” has the meaning given in paragraph
19(3) .

##### Police and Crime Commissioner Elections: Welsh form of statutory questions for elections held on or before 30th January 2024


####### Welsh version of questions to be put to voters


      Person sy’n gwneud cais am bapur pleidleisio Cwestiynau   1 Person sy’n
gwneud cais fel etholwr (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) Ai
chi yw’r person sydd wedi’i gofrestru ar y gofrestr etholwyr fel a ganlyn (
rhaid i chi ddarllen yn uchel y cofnod cyfan o’r gofrestr )? [R]  (b) A ydych
eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu, naill ai yma neu rywle arall, ac eithrio fel dirprwy i rywun arall?
[R] 2 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch
cyfeiriad? (a) Ai chi yw’r person y mae ei enw yn ymddangos fel A B ar y
rhestr dirprwyon ar gyfer yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu fel y person sydd â hawl i bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran C D? [R]
(b) A ydych eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr
heddlu a throseddu, naill ai yma neu rywle arall, fel y person sydd â hawl i
bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran C D? [R] (ba) A gawsoch eich penodi’n ddirprwy
ar ran C D cyn 31 Hydref 2023? [R] (c) Os bydd yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb
cadarnhaol i gwestiwn (ba): Ai chi yw gŵr/gwraig, partner sifil, rhiant, tad-
cu/mam-gu, brawd/chwaer, plentyn neu ŵyr/wyres C D? [R] 3 Person sy’n gwneud
cais fel dirprwy ar gyfer etholwr â chofnod dienw (yn hytrach na’r cwestiynau
yng nghofnod 2) (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) Ai chi
yw’r person y mae hawl ganddo bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran yr etholwr sydd
â’r rhif ( darllenwch yn uchel rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr
etholwyr? [R]  (b) A ydych eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer
comisiynydd yr heddlu a throseddu, yma neu rywle arall, fel dirprwy ar ran yr
etholwr sydd â’r rhif ( darllenwch yn uchel rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y
gofrestr etholwyr? [R]  (ba) A gawsoch eich penodi’n ddirprwy ar ran yr
unigolyn y mae ei rif ar y gofrestr etholwyr wedi’i gofnodi fel ( darllenwch y
rhif ) cyn 31 Hydref 2023? [R]  (c) Os bydd yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb
cadarnhaol i gwestiwn (ba): A ydych yn ŵr/gwraig, yn bartner sifil, yn rhiant,
yn dad-cu/mam-gu, yn frawd/chwaer, yn blentyn neu’n ŵyr/wyres i’r etholwr sydd
â’r rhif ( darllenwch yn uchel rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr
etholwyr? [R] 4 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy os na roddir ateb
cadarnhaol i’r cwestiwn yng nghofnod 2(c) neu 3(c) (os ydynt yn berthnasol) A
ydych eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr
heddlu a throseddu, yma neu rywle arall, ar ran dau berson nad ydych yn
ŵr/gwraig, yn bartner sifil, yn rhiant, yn dad-cu/mam-gu, yn frawd/chwaer, yn
blentyn neu’n ŵyr/wyres iddynt? [R] 5 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel etholwr y
mae cofnod ganddo ar y rhestr pleidleiswyr post (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth
yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) A wnaethoch gais i bleidleisio drwy’r post? (b) Pam nad
ydych wedi pleidleisio drwy’r post? 6 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy y
mae cofnod ganddo ar y rhestr dirprwyon sy’n pleidleisio drwy’r post (za) Beth
yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) A wnaethoch gais i bleidleisio
drwy’r post fel dirprwy? (b) Pam nad ydych wedi pleidleisio drwy’r post fel
dirprwy?

##### Referendums under Schedule 4B to the Town and Country Planning Act 1990


###### Interpretation


27

In this Part—

      “ 2012 Regulations ” means the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums)
Regulations 2012;           “ ongoing referendum ” means a relevant referendum
for which the date of poll as specified in the notice of referendum is on or
after 31st January 2024;           “ referendum ” means a referendum under
Schedule 4B to the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;           “ referendum
rules ” means the rules set out in Schedules 3 and 5 to the 2012 Regulations;
“ relevant referendum ” means a referendum for which the notice of referendum
is published in accordance with rule 5 of the referendum rules on or before
30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain referendums


28

28.1

The amendments made by regulation  18(3)  and (7) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing referendum.

28.2

Rule 25 of Schedule 3 and rule 25 of Schedule 5 to the 2012 Regulations apply
in respect of a relevant referendum subject to the modifications in sub-
paragraph (3).

28.3

The rule applies as if—

28.3.a

in the table following paragraph (1)—

28.3.a.i

in entry 2 (proxy), in the column headed “Question”—

28.3.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were substituted—

28.3.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of CD before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

28.3.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

28.3.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for a voter with an anonymous entry), in the column headed
“Question”—

28.3.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

28.3.a.ii.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is ( read out the number ) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

28.3.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

28.3.b

in paragraph (2), after “(3)(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Disapplication of amendments to the modifications of section 61 of the Representation of the People Act 1983 in respect of an ongoing referendum


29

29.1

The amendments made by regulation  18(5)(a)(ii)  and (iii) to Table 1
(modifications to the Representation of the People Act 1983) in Schedule 4 to
the 2012 Regulations do not apply in respect of a person voting by virtue of a
proxy appointment at an ongoing referendum.

29.2

In sub-paragraph (1), “ proxy appointment ” has the same meaning as in
paragraph 8(8) of Schedule 4 to EA 2022.

###### Poll card forms for certain referendum


30

30.1

The amendments made by regulation  18(4)  and (8) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing referendum.

30.2

The following apply in respect of a relevant referendum subject to the
modification in sub-paragraph (3)—

30.2.a

form 7 (official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)) and form
9 (official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)) in Schedule 3 to the 2012 Regulations;

30.2.b

form 8 (official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)) and form
10 (official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)) in Schedule 5 to the 2012 Regulations.

30.3

The form applies as if, on the front of the form, before the text that begins
“vote as a proxy at this referendum” there were inserted  “(in the case of a
proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

30.4

The following apply in respect of a relevant referendum subject to the
modification in sub-paragraph (5)—

30.4.a

form 8 (official postal poll card (to be sent to a voter voting by post)) and
form 10 (official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting by post) in Schedule 3 to the 2012 Regulations;

30.4.b

form 9 (official postal poll card (to be sent to a voter voting by post)) and
form 11 (official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting by post) in Schedule 5 to the 2012 Regulations;.

30.5

The form applies as if, on the back of the form, before the text that begins
“vote as a proxy at the same referendum” there were inserted  “(in the case of
a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

30.6

The following apply subject to the modification in sub-paragraph (7) in
respect of a referendum for which the notice of referendum is published in
accordance with rule 5 of the referendum rules on or after 31st January 2024
and the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024—

30.6.a

form 8 (official postal poll card (to be sent to a voter voting by post)) and
form 10 (official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting by post)) in Schedule 3 to the 2012 Regulations;

30.6.b

form 9 (official postal poll card (to be sent to a voter voting by post)) and
form 11 (official proxy postal poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting by post)) in Schedule 5 to the 2012 Regulations.

30.7

The form applies as if, on the back of the form, for the text that begins
“vote as a proxy at the same referendum” and ends with “grandchild” there were
substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four voters, of which no more than two may be on
behalf of other domestic voters (a domestic voter is one who is not an
overseas or service voter)

.

##### Recall petitions


###### Interpretation


31

In this Part—

      “ 2016 Regulations ” means the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition)
Regulations 2016;           “ ongoing recall petition ” means a relevant
recall petition for which at least part of the signing period is on or after
31st January 2024;           “ recall petition ” has the meaning given in
section 1(2) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015;           “ relevant recall
petition ” means a recall petition for which the Speaker’s notice is given in
accordance with section 5(1) and (5)(a) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 on or
before 30th January 2024;           “ signing period ” has the meaning given
by section 9(2) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015;           “ transitional period
” means the period—         beginning with 31st October 2023, and
ending with—         for the purposes of an ongoing recall petition, the day
after the last day of the signing period for that petition;           for all
other purposes, 31st January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain recall petitions


32

32.1

The amendments made by regulation  19(4)  do not apply to an ongoing recall
petition.

32.2

Regulation 25 of the 2016 Regulations applies in respect of a relevant recall
petition as if in the Table after paragraph (1)—

32.2.a

in entry 2 (proxies), in the column headed “Questions”—

32.2.a.i

after question (b) there were inserted—

32.2.a.i.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of CD before 31st October 2023?”

;

32.2.a.ii

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

32.2.b

in entry 3 (proxy for an elector with an anonymous entry), in the column
headed “Questions”—

32.2.b.i

after question (b) there were inserted—

32.2.b.i.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is ( read out the number ) before 31st October 2023?”

;

32.2.b.ii

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”.

###### Limitation of certain pre-commencement postal signing entitlements


33

33.1

This paragraph applies where, immediately before 31st October 2023, a person—

33.1.a

has a relevant postal vote entitlement lasting for—

33.1.a.i

an indefinite period, or

33.1.a.ii

a period that would expire after 31st January 2026, and

33.1.b

is registered as an elector otherwise than in pursuance of an overseas
elector’s declaration.

33.2

A “ relevant postal signing entitlement ” means an entitlement to sign by post
at recall petitions in England, Wales or Scotland resulting from the grant of
an application under regulation 51(1) or (7) or 58(5) of the 2016 Regulations.

33.3

The person’s relevant signing entitlement ends on 31st January 2026 (unless it
ends sooner).

33.4

As soon as practicable after 31st October 2023, the registration officer must
alter the record kept under regulation 51(4) or 58(7) of the 2016 Regulations
(as the case may be) to reflect any change resulting from sub-paragraph (3) in
the period for which the person’s relevant postal signing entitlement lasts.

33.5

The registration officer must, before 31st January 2026, send the person—

33.5.a

a notice informing the person of the date on which the person’s relevant
postal signing entitlement is to end, and

33.5.b

information about how to make a fresh application to sign recall petitions by
post (as elector or, as the case may be, as proxy).

33.6

In this paragraph, “ overseas elector’s declaration ” has the meaning given in
regulation 3(1) of the 2016 Regulations.

###### Proxy signing offences and restrictions for certain proxy appointments


34

34.1

Regulations 57(5) and 119(4) of the 2016 Regulations do not apply in respect
of a post-commencement proxy appointment during the transitional period.

34.2

The amendments made by regulation  19(7)(b)  and (16)(b) do not apply in
respect of a person voting by virtue of a proxy appointment at an ongoing
recall petition.

34.3

In this paragraph—

      “ post-commencement proxy appointment ” means a proxy appointment as a
result of an application made on or after 31st October 2023;           “ proxy
appointment ” means—         an appointment resulting from an application
under paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of the People Act
2000 or section 6(1) of the Representation of the People Act 1985  by which,
by virtue of regulation 50(2) or (3) of the 2016 Regulations a person is
entitled to sign a recall petition by proxy;           an appointment
resulting from an application under regulation 51(2) or (6), 52(1) or (7),
53(2), (3) or (4)(b) or 54(1) or (4)(b) of the 2016 Regulations.

###### Termination of certain proxy appointments


35

35.1

This paragraph applies where—

35.1.a

a proxy appointment is in force immediately before 31st January 2024 as the
result of an application made before 31st October 2023, and

35.1.b

the appointment has effect immediately before 31st January 2024 in relation to
recall petitions or a particular recall petition.

35.2

On 31st January 2024, the proxy appointment ceases to have effect as mentioned
in sub-paragraph (1)(b).

35.3

The registration officer must, before 31st January 2024, send the person who
is entitled to sign by proxy by means of the proxy appointment—

35.3.a

a notice informing the person that the appointment ceases to have effect as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b) on 31st January 2024, and

35.3.b

information about how to make a fresh application to sign by proxy.

35.4

As soon as practicable after 31st January 2024, the registration officer must
alter the relevant absent signing records as necessary to reflect the change
to the proxy appointment resulting from sub-paragraph (2).

35.5

In sub-paragraph (4), “ the relevant absent signing records ” means the
records kept under regulations 51(4), 52(5), 55, 56 and 59 of the 2016
Regulations.

35.6

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” means an appointment resulting from
an application under regulation 51(2) or (6) or 52(1) or (7) of the 2016
Regulations.

###### Termination of applications for certain proxy appointments


36

36.1

An application for a proxy appointment under regulation 51(2) or (6), 52(1) or
(7), 53(2), (3) or (4)(b) or 54(1) or (4)(b) of the 2016 Regulations that is
made before, but not determined by, 31st October 2023 is to be treated as not
having been made.

36.2

The registration officer must, as soon as practicable, send each person whose
application is affected by sub-paragraph (1) information about how to make a
fresh application to sign by proxy.

###### Official petition notice forms for certain recall petitions


37

37.1

The amendments made by regulation  19(18) , so far as they substitute forms D
and F in Parts 1 and 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations, do not apply in
respect of an ongoing recall petition.

37.2

Form D (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person), form F (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the
petition in person) and form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may
sign the petition by post) in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations
apply in respect of a relevant recall petition as if, on the third page of the
form, in the text that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than two
people”, for “Sign” there were substituted  “(In the case of a proxy appointed
before 31st October 2023) sign” .

37.3

Form E (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations   applies   in respect
of a relevant recall petition as if, on the second page of the form, in the
text that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than two people”, for
“Sign” there were substituted  “(In the case of a proxy appointed before 31st
October 2023) sign” .

37.3A

Form E (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations applies in respect of a
recall petition to which sub-paragraph (8) applies as if, on the second page
of the notice, for the text that begins with “Sign the petition as a proxy for
more than two people” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

In the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023, sign the
petition as a proxy on behalf of more than four people, of which no more than
two may be on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who
is not an overseas or service elector)

.

37.3B

Form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations applies in respect of a
recall petition to which sub-paragraph (8) applies as if, on the third page of
the form, for the text that begins with “Sign the petition as a proxy for more
than two people” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

In the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023, sign the
petition as a proxy on behalf of more than four people, of which no more than
two may be on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who
is not an overseas or service elector)

.

37.4

Form D (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person), form F (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the
petition in person) and form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may
sign the petition by post) in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations
apply in respect of a relevant recall petition as if, on the final page of the
form, in the text that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than two
people”, for “Sign” there were substituted  “(In the case of a proxy appointed
before 31st October 2023) sign” .

37.5

Form E (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations   applies   in respect
of a relevant recall petition as if, on the second page of the form, in the
text that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than two people”, for
“Sign” there were substituted  “(In the case of a proxy appointed before 31st
October 2023) sign” .

37.6

Form E (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations applies in respect of a
recall petition to which sub-paragraph (8) applies as if, on the second page
of the notice, for the text that begins with “Sign the petition as a proxy for
more than two people” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

In the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023, sign the
petition as a proxy on behalf of more than four people, of which no more than
two may be on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who
is not an overseas or service elector)

.

37.7

Form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016 Regulations applies in respect of a
recall petition to which sub-paragraph (8) applies as if, on the final page of
the form, for the text that begins with “Sign the petition as a proxy for more
than two people” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

In the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023, sign the
petition as a proxy on behalf of more than four people, of which no more than
two may be on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who
is not an overseas or service elector)

.

37.8

This sub-paragraph applies to a recall petition for which—

37.8.a

the Speaker’s notice is given in accordance with section 5(1) of the Recall of
MPs Act 2015 on or after 31st January 2024, and

37.8.b

the date for the beginning of the signing period  for that petition is on or
before 1st May 2024.

###### Proxy paper form for certain proxy appointments


38

38.1

This paragraph applies where a proxy appointment is made during the period—

38.1.a

beginning with 31st October 2023, and

38.1.b

ending with 25th March 2024.

38.2

Form J (proxy paper), as inserted into Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2016
Regulations by regulation  19(18)(a)  applies as if in note 2, before “on
behalf of more than four electors” there were inserted  “(in relation to a
petition for which the end of the signing period is on or after 25th March
2024)” .

38.3

Form J (proxy paper), as inserted into Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 2016
Regulations by regulation  19(18)(b)  applies as if before “on behalf of more
than four electors” there were inserted  “(at a petition for which the end of
the signing period is on or after 25th March 2024)” .

38.4

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” means an appointment resulting from
an application under regulation 51(2) or (6), 52(1) or (7), 53(2), (3) or
(4)(b) or 54(1) or (4)(b) of the 2016 Regulations.

###### Saving for certain proxy appointments at ongoing recall petitions


39

39.1

This paragraph applies where—

39.1.a

a proxy appointment ceases to have effect in accordance with paragraph 8 or 9
of Schedule 4 to EA 2022 or paragraph  35  of this Schedule, and

39.1.b

ignoring the effect of that paragraph, a person would have been entitled by
virtue of that appointment to sign as proxy at an ongoing recall petition.

39.2

Despite the effect of paragraph 8(2) or 9(2) of Schedule 4 to EA 2022 or
paragraph 35(2) of this Schedule, the proxy appointment continues to have
effect for the purposes of the ongoing recall petition.

39.3

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” has the meaning given in paragraph
34(3) .

##### Combined authority mayoral elections


###### Interpretation of Part 10


40

In this Part—

      “ mayoral election rules ” means the rules set out in Schedules 1 and 3
to the Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017;           “
ongoing combined authority mayoral election ” means a relevant combined
authority mayoral election for which the date of poll as specified in the
notice of election is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ relevant
combined authority mayoral election ” means an election for the return of a
mayor as provided for in an order made under Schedule 5B to the Local
Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 for which the notice
of election is published in accordance with rule 5 of the mayoral election
rules on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain combined authority mayoral elections


41

41.1

The amendments made by regulation  20(3)  and (7) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing combined authority mayoral election.

41.2

Rule 35 of the mayoral election rules applies in respect of a relevant
combined authority mayoral election as if—

41.2.a

in the Table after paragraph (1)—

41.2.a.i

in entry 2 (proxies), in the column headed “Question”—

41.2.a.i.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

41.2.a.i.aa.ba

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of CD before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

41.2.a.i.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

41.2.a.ii

in entry 3 (proxy for an elector with an anonymous entry), in the column
headed “Question”—

41.2.a.ii.aa

after question (b) there were inserted—

41.2.a.ii.aa.c

“Were you appointed as proxy on behalf of the person whose number on the
register of electors is ( read out the number ) before 31st October 2023?” [R]

;

41.2.a.ii.bb

in question (c), at the beginning there were inserted “If the person answers
question (ba) in the affirmative:”;

41.2.b

in paragraph (2), after “3(a), (b)” there were inserted  “, (ba)” .

###### Poll card forms for certain combined authority mayoral elections


42

42.1

The amendments made by regulation  20(4)  and (8) do not apply in respect of
an ongoing combined authority mayoral election.

42.2

Form 8 (elector’s official poll card) and form 10 (official proxy poll card)
in the mayoral elections rules apply in respect of a relevant combined
authority mayoral election as if, on the front of the form, before the text
that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in the
case of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

42.3

Form 9 (official postal poll card) and Form 11 (official proxy postal poll
card) in the mayoral election rules apply in respect of a relevant combined
authority mayoral election as if on the back of the form, before the text that
begins “vote as a proxy at this election” there were inserted  “(in the case
of a proxy appointed before 31st October 2023)” .

42.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies in respect of an election for the return of a mayor
as provided for in an order made under Schedule 5B to the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 for which—

42.4.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with rule 5 of the mayoral
election rules on or after 31st January 2024, and

42.4.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

42.5

Form 9 (official postal poll card) and Form 11 (official proxy postal poll
card) in the mayoral election rules apply as if, on the back of the form, for
the text that begins “vote as a proxy at this election” and ends with
“grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023) vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

.

New forms for the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001

Regulation 6(b) and (d)

Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form E1 (proxy paper (parliamentary elections and local government elections
in England))

First page

Final page

New forms for the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001

Regulation 11(b) and (d)

Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form E1 (proxy paper (parliamentary elections))

First page

Last page

New forms for the Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales)
Regulations 2007

Regulation 14(5) and (9)

##### Forms for use at a mayoral election in England where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum


Form 8A (elector’s official poll card (for use at mayoral elections in
England))

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 10A (official proxy poll card (for use at mayoral elections in England))

Front of form

Rear of form

##### Forms for use at a mayoral election in England where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum


Form 8A (elector’s official poll card (for use at mayoral elections in
England))

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 10A (official proxy poll card (for use at mayoral elections in England))

Front of form

Rear of form

New forms for the Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (England)
Regulations 2012

Regulation 15(4) and (8)

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum


Official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum


Official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

New forms for the Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax
Increases) (England) Regulations 2012

Regulation 16(4) and (8)

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum


Official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum


Official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

  New Forms for the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012

Regulation 17(5)(l) and (8)

##### New proxy paper


  Form 1: proxy paper

  First page

  Last page

##### New official poll card and official proxy poll card


Form 11: Official poll card

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 13: Official proxy poll card

Front of form

Rear of form

New forms for the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012

Regulation 18(4) and (8)

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum


Form 7: Official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 9: Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)

Front of form

Rear of form

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum


Form 8: Official poll card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 10: Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)

Front of form

Rear of form

  New forms for the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016

Regulation 19(18)

##### United Kingdom forms


Form D: Official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person

First page

Second page

Third page

Final page

Form F: Official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person

First page

Second page

Third page

Fourth page

Final page

Form J: Proxy paper

##### Northern Ireland forms


  Form D: Official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person

  Form F: Official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person

  Form J: Proxy paper

New forms for the Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017

Regulation 20(4) and (8)

##### Forms for use at an election where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum


Form 8 (elector’s official poll card)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 10 (official proxy poll card)

Front of form

Rear of form

##### Forms for use at an election where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum


Form 8 (elector’s official poll card)

Front of form

Rear of form

Form 10 (official proxy poll card)

Front of form

Rear of form

  New Welsh form of words and Welsh and English forms for the Police and Crime
Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021

Regulation 21

##### New Part 2 of Schedule 1 (Welsh versions of forms of words)


####### Welsh version of questions to be put to voters


      Person sy’n gwneud cais am bapur pleidleisio Cwestiynau   1 Person sy’n
gwneud cais fel etholwr (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) Ai
chi yw’r person sydd wedi’i gofrestru ar y gofrestr etholwyr fel a ganlyn (
rhaid i chi ddarllen yn uchel y cofnod cyfan o’r gofrestr )? [R]  (b) A ydych
eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu, naill ai yma neu rywle arall, ac eithrio fel dirprwy i rywun arall?
[R] 2 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch
cyfeiriad? (a) Ai chi yw’r person y mae ei enw yn ymddangos fel A B ar y
rhestr dirprwyon ar gyfer yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu fel y person sydd â hawl i bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran C D? [R]
(b) A ydych eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr
heddlu a throseddu, naill ai yma neu rywle arall, fel y person sydd â hawl i
bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran C D? [R] (c) Ydych chi eisoes wedi pleidleisio
fel dirprwy yn yr etholiad hwn neu mewn unrhyw etholiad arall ar gyfer
comisiynwyr yr heddlu a throseddu gyda’r diwrnod pleidleisio ar ei gyfer
heddiw, p’un a wnaethoch hynny yma neu rywle arall yn ardal yr heddlu hwn neu
yn ardal unrhyw heddlu arall, ar ran pedwar etholwr neu fwy? [R] (d) Os bydd
yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb negyddol i gwestiwn (c): “Ydych chi eisoes wedi
pleidleisio fel dirprwy yn yr etholiad hwn neu mewn unrhyw etholiad arall ar
gyfer comisiynwyr yr heddlu a throseddu gyda’r diwrnod pleidleisio ar ei gyfer
heddiw, p’un a wnaethoch hynny yma neu rywle arall yn ardal yr heddlu hwn neu
yn ardal unrhyw heddlu arall, ar ran ddau etholwr neu fwy?” [R] (e) Os bydd yr
unigolyn yn rhoi ateb cadarnhaol i gwestiwn (d): “A oedd dau neu fwy o’r
etholwyr y gwnaethoch bleidleisio ar eu rhan yn yr etholiad hwn, neu mewn
unrhyw etholiad arall ar gyfer comisiynwyr yr heddlu a throseddu, wedi’u
cofrestru mewn cofrestr o etholwyr ac eithrio yn unol â datganiad gwasanaeth?”
[R] (f) Os bydd yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb cadarnhaol i gwestiwn (e): “A yw’r
etholwr (etholwyr) rydych yn pleidleisio ar ei ran (eu rhan) heddiw wedi’i
gofrestru (wedi’u cofrestru) mewn cofrestr o etholwyr ac eithrio yn unol â
datganiad gwasanaeth?” [R] 3 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy ar gyfer
etholwr â chofnod dienw (yn hytrach na’r cwestiynau yng nghofnod 2) (za) Beth
yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) Ai chi yw’r person y mae hawl ganddo
bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran yr etholwr sydd â’r rhif ( darllenwch yn uchel
rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr etholwyr? [R]  (b) A ydych eisoes
wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu, yma neu rywle arall, fel dirprwy ar ran yr etholwr sydd â’r rhif (
darllenwch yn uchel rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr etholwyr? [R]
(c) Ydych chi eisoes wedi pleidleisio fel dirprwy yn yr etholiad hwn neu mewn
unrhyw etholiad arall ar gyfer comisiynwyr yr heddlu a throseddu gyda’r
diwrnod pleidleisio ar ei gyfer heddiw, p’un a wnaethoch hynny yma neu rywle
arall yn ardal yr heddlu hwn neu yn ardal unrhyw heddlu arall, ar ran pedwar
etholwr neu fwy? [R] (d) Os bydd yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb negyddol i gwestiwn
(c): “Ydych chi eisoes wedi pleidleisio fel dirprwy yn yr etholiad hwn neu
mewn unrhyw etholiad arall ar gyfer comisiynwyr yr heddlu a throseddu gyda’r
diwrnod pleidleisio ar ei gyfer heddiw, p’un a wnaethoch hynny yma neu rywle
arall yn ardal yr heddlu hwn neu yn ardal unrhyw heddlu arall, ar ran ddau
etholwr neu fwy?” [R] (e) Os bydd yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb cadarnhaol i
gwestiwn (d): “A oedd dau neu fwy o’r etholwyr y gwnaethoch bleidleisio ar eu
rhan yn yr etholiad hwn, neu mewn unrhyw etholiad arall ar gyfer comisiynwyr
yr heddlu a throseddu, wedi’u cofrestru mewn cofrestr o etholwyr ac eithrio yn
unol â datganiad gwasanaeth?” [R] (f) Os bydd yr unigolyn yn rhoi ateb
cadarnhaol i gwestiwn (e): “A yw’r etholwr (etholwyr) rydych yn pleidleisio ar
ei ran (eu rhan) heddiw wedi’i gofrestru (wedi’u cofrestru) mewn cofrestr o
etholwyr ac eithrio yn unol â datganiad gwasanaeth?” [R] 5 Person sy’n gwneud
cais fel etholwr y mae cofnod ganddo ar y rhestr pleidleiswyr post (za) Beth
yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) A wnaethoch gais i bleidleisio
drwy’r post? (b) Pam nad ydych wedi pleidleisio drwy’r post? 6 Person sy’n
gwneud cais fel dirprwy y mae cofnod ganddo ar y rhestr dirprwyon sy’n
pleidleisio drwy’r post (za) Beth yw’ch enw? (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad? (a) A
wnaethoch gais i bleidleisio drwy’r post fel dirprwy? (b) Pam nad ydych wedi
pleidleisio drwy’r post fel dirprwy?

##### New proxy paper, official poll card and official proxy poll card


  Form 1: proxy paper

  First page

  Second page

  Last page

  Form 11: Official poll card

  Front of form

  Rear of form

  Form 13: Official proxy poll card

  Front of form

  Rear of form

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision related to the implementation of section 3
(restriction of period for which person can apply for a postal vote) and
section 6 (limit on the number of electors for whom a proxy can vote) of the
Elections Act  2022 (c. 37)  (“EA 2022”), as well as amending provisions
related to the processing of applications for electoral registration under
section 10ZC of the Representation of the People Act  1983 (c. 2)  (“ the 1983
Act ”).

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes amendments to the Representation of the
People (England and Wales) Regulation 2001 ( S.I. 2001/341 ) (“ the 2001
Regulations ”). Regulation  4  amends Part 3 of the 2001 Regulations to update
provisions regarding how electoral registration applications submitted online
via the digital service and the information contained within them are
processed. Regulation  5  amends Part 4 of the 2001 Regulations, providing for
the online submission of relevant absent voting applications (see paragraph
1A(7)(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to the 1983 Act), as well as the verification of
information provided in such applications (whether or not submitted online)
and the power for registration officers to request further evidence from
applicants in order to verify the applicant’s identity. The amendments to Part
4 of the 2001 Regulations also provide for additional notifications to be sent
by registration officers where an application for postal ballot papers to be
sent to different address is granted, refused or disregarded for the purposes
of a particular election. Regulation  6  replaces the prescribed form of the
official poll card and official proxy poll card used in respect of
parliamentary elections in England and Wales, as well as the prescribed form
of the proxy paper.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes equivalent amendments to the
Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/497 ) to
those made by Part 2 of these Regulations.

  Regulations  12  and  13  make amendments to regulation 98 of the
Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 1986 ( S.I. 1986/1111 )
and Schedule 2 to the Representation of the People (Combination of Polls)
(England and Wales) Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/294 ) (which modify the
parliamentary elections rules set out in Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act where the
poll for a UK parliamentary election is combined with one or more other polls
in Scotland and England and Wales respectively) as a result of the amendments
made to the statutory questions in rule 35 of the parliamentary election rules
by paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to EA 2022.

  Regulations  14  to  20  amend various instruments to make equivalent
amendments to election, referendum and recall petition rules to those made to
the UK parliamentary election rules in Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act by paragraph
4 of Schedule 4 to EA 2022 and to update the prescribed form of equivalent
poll cards and proxy poll cards. Additionally, in relation to Police and Crime
Commissioner elections and recall petitions, regulations  17  and  19  makes
equivalent amendments to those made by Parts 2 and 3 of these Regulations for
the online submission of absent voting or absent signing applications and
associated verification procedures and powers.

  Regulation  21  updates the Welsh language version of the statutory
questions for proxies, and the Welsh and English versions of the poll card and
proxy poll card, for use in relation to police and crime commissioner
elections in Wales.

  Regulation  22  amends the Voter Identification Regulations 2022 ( S.I.
2022/1382 ) to update provisions regarding how identity document applications
submitted online via the digital service and the information contained within
them are processed, as well as applying a similar limit on potential attestors
to an applicant’s identity as are provided for in relation to relevant absent
voting applications.

  Schedule 2 contains transitional and savings provisions related to the
amendments made by the EA 2022 and these Regulations to the rules governing
elections, referendums and recall petitions.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of businesses, the voluntary sector and the public sector is available
from the Department of Levelling Up, Housing and Communities at 2 Marsham
Street, London, SW1P 4DF and published with the Explanatory Memorandum
alongside this instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

