Title: The Food (Scotland) Act 2015 (Compliance Notices) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-22
Description: Part 3 of the Food (Scotland) Act 2015 (“the 2015 Act”) provides for the creation of compliance notices in relation to specified offences under food legislation. These regulations specify relevant offences in relation to which compliance notices can be used.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/161

## The Food (Scotland) Act 2015 (Compliance Notices) Regulations 2023

    Food

  Made   23rd May 2023

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   25th May 2023

  Coming into force   30th June 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 49(1) and (2)(c), and 52 of the Food (Scotland)
Act 2015  and all other powers enabling them to do so.       The Scottish
Ministers have had regard to relevant advice given by Food Standards Scotland
in accordance with section 50(1)(a) of the Food (Scotland) Act 2015.
There has been consultation as required by Article 9 of Regulation  (EC)
178/2002  of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the
general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the Food Safety
Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Food (Scotland) Act 2015 (Compliance
Notices) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 30 June 2023.

1.3

In these Regulations—

1.3.a

“ the 1990 Act ” means the Food Safety Act 1990 ,

1.3.b

“ the 2015 Act ” means the Food (Scotland) Act 2015.

### Meaning of relevant offence, specified standard and specified period

2

2.1

For the purposes of Part 3 (administrative sanctions) of the 2015 Act, as it
applies to compliance notices, an offence specified in the schedule is a
“relevant offence”.

2.2

The “ specified standard ” for the purposes of section 42(3) (compliance
notices) of the 2015 Act is on the balance of probabilities.

2.3

The “ specified period ” for the purposes of section 43(3) (content and form
of a compliance notice) of the 2015 Act is 14 days.

### Application of provisions of the 1990 Act

3

The following provisions of the 1990 Act apply for the purposes of the
provisions of the 2015 Act mentioned, subject to the modifications specified—

3.a

section 30(8) (documentary evidence in proceedings for offences) applies for
the purposes of sections 44 (failure to comply with a compliance notice) and
48 (appeal against a compliance notice) of the 2015 Act with the modification
that the reference to “this Act” is to be read as a reference to Part 3 of
2015 Act, as that Part applies to compliance notices,

3.b

section 34 (time limit for prosecutions) applies for the purposes of section
44 (failure to comply with a compliance notice) of the 2015 Act with the
modification that the reference to “this Act which is punishable under section
35(A1), (A2) or (2) below” is to be read as a reference to section 44 of the
2015 Act,

3.c

section 40 (power to issue codes of practice) applies for the purposes of Part
3 of the 2015 Act as that Part applies to compliance notices with the
modifications that—

3.c.i

any reference to “this Act” is to be read as a reference to Part 3 of the 2015
Act, as that Part applies to compliance notices,

3.c.ii

any reference to a “food authority” is to be read as a reference to an
enforcement authority,

3.d

section 49(3) to (5) (form and authentication of documents) applies for the
purposes of sections 42 (compliance notices) and 47 (withdrawal of a
compliance notice) of the 2015 Act with the modifications that any reference
to a “food authority” is to be read as a reference to an enforcement
authority,

3.e

section 50 (service of documents) applies for the purposes of sections 42
(compliance notices) and 47 (withdrawal of a compliance notice) of the 2015
Act with the modification that any reference to “this Act” is to be read as a
reference to Part 3 of the 2015 Act as that Part applies to compliance
notices.

      JENNI MINTO   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       23rd May 2023

  Relevant Offences for the purposes of Part 3 of the 2015 Act as it applies
to compliance notices

Regulation 2(1)

##### The Quick-frozen Foodstuffs Regulations 1990

1

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Quick-frozen
Foodstuffs Regulations 1990 —

1.a

regulation 3 (sale of quick-frozen foodstuffs),

1.b

regulation 4 (packaging of quick-frozen foodstuffs intended for supply to the
ultimate consumer),

1.c

regulation 5(1), (2), (3) and (4) (labelling of quick-frozen foodstuffs),

1.d

regulation 6 (equipment),

1.e

regulation 7(1A) (penalties and enforcement).

##### Food (Lot Marking) Regulations 1996

2

An offence under regulation 5(1) (enforcement) of the Food (Lot Marking)
Regulations 1996 .

##### Foods Intended for Use in Energy Restricted Diets for Weight Reduction Regulations 1997

3

An offence under regulation 6(1) (offences and penalties) of the Foods
Intended for Use in Energy Restricted Diets for Weight Reduction Regulations
1997 .

##### Bread and Flour Regulations 1998

4

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Bread and Flour
Regulations 1998 —

4.a

regulation 4(4)(a) and (4)(b)(ii) (composition of flour),

4.b

regulation 5 (additional ingredients),

4.c

regulation 6(2) (restrictions on the use of the words ‘wholemeal’ and
‘wheatgerm’).

##### Coffee Extracts and Chicory Extracts (Scotland) Regulations 2001

5

An offence under regulation 7(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Coffee
Extracts and Chicory Extracts (Scotland) Regulations 2001 .

##### Kava-kava in Food (Scotland) Regulations 2002

6

An offence under regulation 4(1) (penalty and enforcement) of the Kava-kava in
Food (Scotland) Regulations 2002 .

##### Food Supplements (Scotland) Regulations 2003

7

An offence under regulation 9 (offences and penalties) of the Food Supplements
(Scotland) Regulations 2003 .

##### Cocoa and Chocolate Products (Scotland) Regulations 2003

8

An offence under regulation 8(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Cocoa and
Chocolate Products (Scotland) Regulations 2003 .

##### Condensed Milk and Dried Milk (Scotland) Regulations 2003

9

An offence under regulation 7(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Condensed
Milk and Dried Milk (Scotland) Regulations 2003 .

##### Specified Sugar Products (Scotland) Regulations 2003

10

An offence under regulation 7(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Specified
Sugar Products (Scotland) Regulations 2003 .

##### Processed Cereal-based Foods and Baby Foods for Infants and Young Children (Scotland) Regulations 2004

11

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Processed Cereal-based
Foods and Baby Foods for Infants and Young Children (Scotland) Regulations
2004 —

11.a

regulation 4 (restrictions on the sale of processed CEREAL-BASED foods and
baby foods),

11.b

regulation 5(1), (3) and (4) (general requirements as to manufacture and
composition),

11.c

regulation 6 (added nutritional substances and nutrients),

11.d

regulation 7 (pesticide residues),

11.e

regulation 8 (labelling).

##### Jam and Similar Products (Scotland) Regulations 2004

12

An offence under regulation 7(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Jam and
Similar Products (Scotland) Regulations 2004 .

##### Genetically Modified Food (Scotland) Regulations 2004

13

An offence under regulation 5 (offences and penalties) of the Genetically
Modified Food (Scotland) Regulations 2004 .

##### General Food Regulations 2004

14

An offence under any of the following provisions of the General Food
Regulations 2004 —

14.a

regulation 4(b) (Article 14(1) food safety requirements),

14.b

regulation 4(c) (Article 16 (presentation) in so far as it relates to food),

14.c

regulation 4(d) (Article 18(2) or (3) (traceability) in so far as it relates
to food business operators),

14.d

regulation 4(e) (Article 19(4) responsibilities for food: food business
operators).

##### Tryptophan in Food (Scotland) Regulations 2005

15

An offence under regulation 6(1) (offences and penalty) of the Tryptophan in
Food (Scotland) Regulations 2005 .

##### Addition of Vitamins, Minerals and Other Substances (Scotland) Regulations 2007

16

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Addition of Vitamins,
Minerals and Other Substances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 —

16.a

regulation 4(2)(a) (Article 3(1) (requirement that only vitamins or minerals
listed in Annex I and in form listed in Annex II may be added to food) as read
with Article 17(1) (transitional application of national rules)),

16.b

regulation 4(2)(b) (Article 4 (prohibition on addition of vitamins and
minerals to certain foods)),

16.c

regulation 4(2)(c) (Article 5(2) (requirement to observe purity criteria)),

16.d

regulation 4(2)(d) (Article 6(6) (requirement for added vitamins and minerals
to be in the food in at least a significant amount as defined)),

16.e

regulation 4(2)(e) (Article 7(1), (2) and (3) (restrictions and conditions
applying to labelling, presentation and advertising of foods to which vitamins
or minerals have been added) as read with the first subparagraph of Article
54(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the
Council on the provision of food information to consumers, amending
Regulations  (EC) No 1924/2006  and  (EC) No 1925/2006  of the European
Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Commission Directive  87/250/EEC
, Council Directive  90/496/EEC , Commission  Directive 1999/10/EC ,
Directive 2000/13/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council,
Commission Directives  2002/67/EC  and  2008/5/EC  and Commission regulation
(EC) No 608/2004 ).

##### Nutrition and Health Claims (Scotland) Regulations 2007

17

An offence under regulation 5 (offences and penalties) of the Nutrition and
Health Claims (Scotland) Regulations 2007 .

##### Natural Mineral Water, Spring Water and Bottled Drinking Water (Scotland) (No. 2) Regulations 2007

18

An offence under regulation 20 (offences and penalties) of the Natural Mineral
Water, Spring Water and Bottled Water (Scotland) No. 2 Regulations 2007 .

##### Specified Products from China (Restriction on First Placing on the Market) (Scotland) Regulations 2008

19

An offence under regulation 3(1) (restriction on placing on the market of rice
products) of the Specified Products from China (Restriction on First Placing
on the Market) (Scotland) Regulations 2008 .

##### Food Irradiation (Scotland) Regulations 2009

20

An offence under either of the following provisions of the Food Irradiation
(Scotland) Regulations 2009 —

20.a

regulation 6(1)(b) (restriction on storage or transport),

20.b

regulation 8(1)(b) (documentation for food not ready for final sale).

##### Food for Particular Nutritional Uses (Addition of Substances for Specific Nutritional Purposes) (Scotland) Regulations 2009

21

An offence under regulation 3(1) (offences, penalties and execution and
enforcement) of the Food for Particular Nutritional Uses (Addition of
Substances for Specific Nutritional Purposes) (Scotland) Regulations 2009 .

##### Plastic Kitchenware (Conditions on Imports from China) (Scotland) Regulations 2011

22

An offence under regulation 4 (offences and penalties) of the Plastic
Kitchenware (Conditions on Imports from China) (Scotland) Regulations 2011 .

##### Materials and Articles in Contact with Food (Scotland) Regulations 2012

23

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Materials and Articles
in Contact with Food (Scotland) Regulations 2012 —

23.a

regulation 4(3) (offences of contravening specified provisions of Regulation
1935/2004),

23.b

regulation 5 (offence of contravening Article 4 of Regulation 2023/2006),

23.c

regulation 7 (offences of contravening specified provisions of Regulation
450/2009),

23.d

regulation 14 (offences of contravening specified provisions of Regulation
10/2011),

23.e

regulation 16(4) (restrictions on the use of epoxy derivatives (BADGE, BFDGE
and NOGE),

23.f

regulation 19(1) (offences and penalties).

##### Fish Labelling (Scotland) Regulations 2013

24

An offence under regulation 5 (offences) of the Fish Labelling (Scotland)
Regulations 2013 .

##### Food Additives, Flavourings, Enzymes and Extraction Solvents (Scotland) Regulations 2013

25

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Food Additives,
Flavourings, Enzymes and Extraction Solvents (Scotland) Regulations 2013 —

25.a

regulation 3 (offence of contravening EU requirements on food additives),

25.b

regulation 4 (offence of contravening EU requirements on flavourings,
including smoke flavourings),

25.c

regulation 5 (offence of contravening EU requirements on flavourings,
including smoke flavourings),

25.d

regulation 6 (offence of contravening EU requirements on food enzymes),

25.e

regulation 15(1) (offences and penalties).

##### Fruit Juices and Fruit Nectars (Scotland) Regulations 2013

26

An offence under regulation 17 (offences and penalties) of the Fruit Juices
and Fruit Nectars (Scotland) Regulations 2013 .

##### Products Containing Meat etc. (Scotland) Regulations 2014

27

An offence under regulation 6(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Products
Containing Meat etc. (Scotland) Regulations 2014 .

##### The Food Information (Scotland) Regulations 2014

28

An offence under regulation 10 (offences) of the Food Information (Scotland)
Regulations 2014 .

##### Honey (Scotland) Regulations 2015

29

An offence under regulation 17(1) (penalties and enforcement) of the Honey
(Scotland) Regulations 2015 .

##### Country of Origin of Certain Meats (Scotland) Regulations 2016

30

An offence under regulation 6(1) and (2) (offences and penalties) of the
Country of Origin of Certain Meats (Scotland) Regulations 2016 .

##### Food for Specific Groups (Scotland) Regulations 2016

31

An offence under regulation 4(1) (offences and penalties) of the Food for
Specific Groups (Scotland) Regulations 2016 .

##### The Caseins and Caseinates (Scotland) (No. 2) Regulations 2016

32

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Caseins and Caseinates
(Scotland) (No. 2) Regulations 2016 —

32.a

regulation 4 (restriction on the marketing and use of edible acid caseins,
edible rennet caseins and edible caseinates),

32.b

regulation 5(1) and (2) (labelling of edible acid caseins, edible rennet
caseins and edible caseinates).

##### Novel Foods (Scotland) Regulations 2017

33

An offence under regulation   4   (as read with Articles 24 and 35(2)) of the
Novel Foods (Scotland) Regulations 2017 .

##### Food for Specific Groups (Infant Formula and Follow-On Formula) (Scotland) Regulations 2020

34

An offence under regulation 4(1) (offences and penalties) of the Food for
Specific Groups (Infant Formula and Follow-On Formula) (Scotland) Regulations
2020 .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Part 3 of the Food (Scotland) Act 2015 (“ the 2015 Act ”) provides for the
creation of compliance notices in relation to specified offences under food
legislation. These regulations specify relevant offences in relation to which
compliance notices can be used.

  Regulation 2(1) introduces the schedule. Regulation 2(2) provides for the
evidentiary standard to which an authorised officer must be satisfied before
they can issue a compliance notice under section 42 of the 2015 Act.
Regulation 2(3) provides for the “specified period” which is the minimum
period of time in which the required steps are to be taken to cease to commit
a relevant offence as set out in section 43(1)(d), (2) and (3) of the 2015
Act.

  Regulation 3 applies, with modifications, specified provisions of the Food
Safety Act 1990 to section 42 (compliance notices), section 44 (failure to
comply with a compliance notice), section 47 (withdrawal of a compliance
notice), section 48 (appeal against a compliance notice) and Part 3 generally
of the 2015 Act.

  The schedule specifies relevant offences in relation to which a compliance
notice may be issued under section 42 of the 2015 Act.

  A full Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment of the effect that this
instrument will have on the costs of business, the consumer sector and the
public sector has been prepared and placed in the Scottish Parliament
Information Centre. Copies may be obtained from Food Standards Scotland,
Pilgrim House, Old Ford House, Aberdeen, AB11 5RL.

