Title: The Rates (Localised Flooding No.2) (Emergency Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-01-31
Description: These Regulations provide for emergency rate relief in respect of specified hereditaments for the financial year ending before 1st April 2024. The relief is being provided in order to provide support to businesses who have had to temporarily relocate as a result of severe localised flooding that occurred in Northern Ireland between 29th October 2023 and 18th November 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/199

## The Rates (Localised Flooding No.2) (Emergency Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Rates

  Made   4th December 2023

  Coming into operation   11th December 2023

      The Department of Finance  makes the following Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by Article 31C of the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order
1977

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Rates (Localised Flooding No. 2)
(Emergency Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into
operation on 11th December 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1977 Order ” means the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977;
“ the 2010 Regulations ” means the Rates (Small Business Hereditament Relief)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 ;           “ the 2023 Regulations ” means
the Rates (Localised Flooding) (Emergency Relief) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 ;           “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in
the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 ;           “ specified hereditament ”
means a hereditament–         in the NAV list;           which was unoccupied
prior to the 29th October 2023           which becomes newly occupied, by a
person eligible for support under the 2023 Regulations, on or after 29th
October 2023; and           the NAV of which does not exceed £600,000;
“ specified year ” means the year ending before the 1st April 2024; and

### Reduction of rates in respect of specified hereditaments

3

Subject to the condition in regulation 5, where liability for rates for a
specified hereditament occurs on or after the 29th October 2023, the amount
which, apart from these Regulations, would be payable during a specified year
shall be reduced by 100% in respect of the period between that liability
commencing and–

3.a

31st March 2024; or

3.b

the date on which that liability ceases,

whichever is earlier.

### Treatment of mixed hereditaments

4

In any case where a hereditament has both a net annual value and a capital
value, regulation 3 shall apply as if a reference to any amount payable on
account of a rate on a specified hereditament is a reference to the net annual
value of the hereditament.

### Condition for reduction of rates in certain circumstances

5

The condition referred to in regulation 3 is that where rates in respect of a
specified hereditament are payable by the owner rather than the occupier, it
must appear to the Department that a sum equal to the amount of any reduction
under these Regulations will be applied for the benefit of that occupier.

### Reduction under the Rates (Small Business Hereditament Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010

6

A reduction applicable to a specified hereditament by virtue of these
Regulations is to be applied after any reduction applied to the hereditament
by virtue of the 2010 Regulations.

### Recoverable amounts

7

Any amount of rate relief determined in accordance with these Regulations
which is subsequently found to have been paid–

7.a

in error; or

7.b

in excess of entitlement,

shall be recoverable by the Department as rates due and payable.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 4th
December 2023.       (L.S.)   Sharon Magee   A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations provide for emergency rate relief in respect of specified
hereditaments for the financial year ending before 1st April 2024. The relief
is being provided in order to provide support to businesses who have had to
temporarily relocate as a result of severe localised flooding that occurred in
Northern Ireland between 29th October 2023 and 18th November 2023.

  Regulation 3 removes any rates liability that arises for specified
hereditaments between 1st November 2023 and 1st April 2024.

  Regulation 4 allows for the removal of liability under regulation 3 to apply
to the NAV element of a mixed hereditament that appears on the non-domestic
valuation list.

  Regulation 5 provides that where rates are payable by the owner rather than
the occupier of a business hereditament, the reduction of rates is conditional
on the owner applying the amount of the reduction for the benefit of the
occupier.

  Regulation 6 makes provision to ensure that the relief provided under these
Regulations is applied after the rate relief provided under the Rates (Small
Business Hereditament Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 ( S.R. 2010
No. 4 ) as amended.

  Regulation 7 makes provision that an amount of rate relief, determined in
accordance with these Regulations, and subsequently found to have been paid in
excess of entitlement shall be recoverable by the Department as rates due and
payable.

