Title: The Education (Student Finance) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-04-04
Description: These Regulations amend various Regulations which make provision about, and in connection with, student finance.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/633

## The Education (Student Finance) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2023

    Education, Wales

  Made   12 June 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   14 June 2023

  Coming into force   6 July 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred upon the Secretary of State by sections 1 and 2 of the
Education (Fees and Awards) Act 1983  and sections 22(1)(a), 22(2)(a) and
42(6) of the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998 , and now exercisable by
them  and powers conferred on them under sections 5(5)(b) and 55(2) of the
Higher Education (Wales) Act 2015 .

### Title and coming into force

#### Title and coming into force

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Education (Student Finance)
(Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 6 July 2023.

### Amendments to the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007

#### Introduction

2

The Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

3

In regulation 2(1)—

3.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”—

3.a.i

omit “British Virgin Islands;”;

3.a.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan de Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

3.a.iii

after “Turks and Caicos Islands” insert  “; Virgin Islands;” ;

3.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”—

3.b.i

omit “British Virgin Islands;”;

3.b.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

3.b.iii

for “and Turks and Caicos Islands” substitute  “Turks and Caicos Islands; and
Virgin Islands” .

#### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave to enter or remain as a protected person”

4

In the Schedule, in paragraph 1, in the definition of “person granted leave to
enter or remain as a protected person”—

4.a

for paragraph (e) substitute—

4.a.e

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph 276BA2 of the
immigration rules or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
paragraph 276BS2 of the immigration rules;

;

4.b

after paragraph (e) insert—

4.b.ea

leave to enter or indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph
276BJ2 or 276BO2 of the immigration rules or paragraph ARAP 16.1 of Appendix
Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules;

4.b.eb

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of the immigration rules;

.

### Amendments to the Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015

#### Introduction

5

The Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary
Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

6

In the Schedule, in paragraph 1(1)—

6.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”—

6.a.i

omit “British Virgin Islands;”;

6.a.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan de Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

6.a.iii

after “Turks and Caicos Islands” insert  “; Virgin Islands; ” ;

6.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”—

6.b.i

omit “British Virgin Islands;”;

6.b.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

6.b.iii

for “and Turks and Caicos Islands” substitute  “Turks and Caicos Islands; and
Virgin Islands” .

#### Amendments to the definition of “person granted leave to enter or remain as a protected person”

7

In the Schedule, in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of “person granted leave
to enter or remain as a protected person”—

7.a

for paragraph (e) substitute—

7.a.e

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph 276BA2 of the
immigration rules or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
paragraph 276BS2 of the immigration rules;

;

7.b

after paragraph (e) insert—

7.b.ea

leave to enter or indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph
276BJ2 or 276BO2 of the immigration rules or paragraph ARAP 16.1 of Appendix
Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules;

7.b.eb

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of the immigration rules;

.

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017

#### Introduction

8

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to early termination of eligibility provisions

9

In regulation 4, after paragraph (11) insert—

9.11A

Paragraphs (9), (9A), (9B), (10), (10A), (10B), (10C), (10D), (10E) or (10F)
do not apply where, as at the day before the academic year in respect of which
A is applying for support starts—

9.11A.a

A; or

9.11A.b

the person who, as a result of their immigration status, caused A to be an
eligible student or a qualifying student,

is a British or Irish citizen.

.

10

In regulation 81, after paragraph (10F) insert—

10.10G

Paragraphs (9), (9A), (9B), (10), (10A), (10B), (10C), (10D), (10E) or (10F)
do not apply where, as at the day before the academic year in respect of which
A is applying for support begins—

10.10G.a

A; or

10.10G.b

the person who, as a result of their immigration status, caused A to be an
eligible part-time student,

is a British or Irish citizen.

.

11

In regulation 110, after paragraph (12F) insert—

11.12G

Paragraphs (11), (11A), (11B), (12), (12A), (12B), (12C), (12D), (12E) or
(12F) do not apply where, as at the day before the academic year in respect of
which A is applying for support begins—

11.12G.a

A; or

11.12G.b

the person who, as a result of their immigration status, caused A to be an
eligible postgraduate student,

is a British or Irish citizen.

.

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018

#### Introduction

12

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

13

In Schedule 2, in paragraph 11(1)—

13.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”—

13.a.i

omit “British Virgin Islands,”;

13.a.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

13.a.iii

after “Turks and Caicos Islands,” insert  “Virgin Islands,” ;

13.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”—

13.b.i

omit “British Virgin Islands,”;

13.b.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

13.b.iii

for “and Turks and Caicos Islands” substitute  “Turks and Caicos Islands, and
Virgin Islands” .

#### Amendments to the definition of “person with leave to enter or remain as a relevant Afghan citizen”

14

In Schedule 2, in paragraph 2ZA(4), in paragraph (ea)—

14.a

for sub-paragraph (i) substitute—

14.a.i

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph 276BA2 of the
immigration rules or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
paragraph 276BS2 of the immigration rules,

;

14.b

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

14.b.ia

leave to enter or indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph
276BJ2 or 276BO2 of the immigration rules or paragraph ARAP 16.1 of Appendix
Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules,

14.b.ib

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of the immigration rules,

.

#### Amendments to early termination of eligibility provisions

15

After regulation 23G insert—

15.23H

Regulations 22, 22A, 23, 23A, 23B, 23C, 23D, 23E, 23F or 23G do not apply
where as at the end of the day before the first day of the academic year in
respect of which P is applying for support—

15.23H.a

P, or

15.23H.b

the person who, as a result of their immigration status, caused P to be an
eligible student,

is a British or Irish citizen.

.

16

In Schedule 4, after paragraph 13G insert—

16.13H

Paragraphs 12, 12A, 13, 13A, 13B, 13C, 13D, 13E, 13F or 13G do not apply
where, as at the end of the day before the first day of the academic year in
respect of which P is applying for support—

16.13H.a

P, or

16.13H.b

the person who, as a result of their immigration status, caused P to be an
eligible postgraduate student,

is a British or Irish citizen.

.

### Amendments to the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018

#### Introduction

17

The Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018
are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

18

In Schedule 1, in paragraph 1(1)—

18.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”—

18.a.i

omit “British Virgin Islands;”;

18.a.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

18.a.iii

after “Turks and Caicos Islands;” insert  “Virgin Islands;” ;

18.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”—

18.b.i

omit “British Virgin Islands;”;

18.b.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

18.b.iii

for “and Turks and Caicos Islands” substitute  “Turks and Caicos Islands; and
Virgin Islands” .

#### Amendments to the definition of “person with leave to enter or remain as a relevant Afghan citizen”

19

In regulation 2(1), in the definition of “person with leave to enter or remain
as a relevant Afghan citizen”—

19.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

19.a.a

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph 276BA2 of the
immigration rules or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
paragraph 276BS2 of the immigration rules;

;

19.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

19.b.aa

leave to enter or indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph
276BJ2 or 276BO2 of the immigration rules or paragraph ARAP 16.1 of Appendix
Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules;

19.b.ab

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of the immigration rules;

.

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales) Regulations 2019

#### Introduction

20

The Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales)
Regulations 2019  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to the definitions of “overseas territories” and “specified British overseas territories”

21

In Schedule 2, in paragraph 13(1)—

21.a

in the definition of “overseas territories”—

21.a.i

omit “British Virgin Islands,”;

21.a.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

21.a.iii

after “Turks and Caicos Islands,” insert  “Virgin Islands,” ;

21.b

in the definition of “specified British overseas territories”—

21.b.i

omit “British Virgin Islands,”;

21.b.ii

for “St Helena and Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha)”
substitute  “St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha” ;

21.b.iii

for “and Turks and Caicos Islands” substitute  “Turks and Caicos Islands, and
Virgin Islands” .

#### Amendments to the definition of “person with leave to enter or remain as a relevant Afghan citizen”

22

In Schedule 2, in paragraph 2A(4)(da)—

22.a

for sub-paragraph (i) substitute—

22.a.i

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph 276BA2 of the
immigration rules or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
paragraph 276BS2 of the immigration rules,

;

22.b

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

22.b.ia

leave to enter or indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph
276BJ2 or 276BO2 of the immigration rules or paragraph ARAP 16.1 of Appendix
Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules,

22.b.ib

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of the immigration rules,

.

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh language, one of the
Welsh Ministers     12 June 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend various Regulations which make provision about, and
in connection with, student finance.

  Amendments are made—     a     to the name that certain British overseas
territories are now known by to be consistent with the British Nationality Act
1981, and         b     that relate to the immigration status of certain
Afghan citizens as a result of changes made to the immigration rules.

  Amendments are also made to the Education (Student Support) (Wales)
Regulations 2017 and the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018
to disapply early termination of eligibility for certain categories of
eligible students in circumstances where a person has become a British or
Irish citizen.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, a regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely
costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained
from the Higher Education Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff,
CF10 3NQ.

