Title: The Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-11-05
Description: These Regulations, together with rules to be made by the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”), restate some provisions of Articles 53 and 54 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 of 10th October 2014 supplementing Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II) (“Regulation 2015/35”) and some provisions of regulations 4B and 42 of the Solvency 2 Regulations 2015 (S.I. 2015/575), in some cases with modifications. Those provisions of Regulation 2015/35 and the Solvency 2 Regulations 2015 are revoked by section 1(1) of, and Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (c. 29) and the revocations are due to come into force on 30th June 2024. The draft PRA rules are available at www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2023/september/review-of-solvency-ii-reform-of-the-matching-adjustment and from the PRA at the address given below, and are also due to come into force on 30th June 2024.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1347

## The Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023

    Financial Services And Markets

  Made   7th December 2023

  Laid before Parliament   8th December 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Treasury make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 4, 84(2) and 86(5) of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2023 .

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings
(Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force for the purposes of regulation 7 on 1st
April 2024 and for all other purposes on 30th June 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ assigned portfolio of assets ” means the portfolio referred to in
regulation 4(3);           “ credit rating ” means a credit rating defined in
Article 3(1) of Regulation  (EC) No 1060/2009  of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies  issued or
endorsed by a credit rating agency in accordance with Article 4 of that
Regulation;           “ credit rating agency ” means a credit rating agency
registered by the FCA in accordance with Regulation  (EC) No 1060/2009  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating
agencies or certified by the FCA in accordance with Article 5 of that
Regulation;           “ insurance undertaking ” means an insurance
undertaking, as defined in section 417(1) of FSMA 2000 , in relation to which
PRA rules provide for the calculation of a best estimate of future cash flows
using the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure;           “ PRA-
authorised person ” has the meaning given in section 2B(5) of FSMA 2000 ;
“ PRA rules ” means the rules made by the PRA under FSMA 2000, as they have
effect from time to time;           “ reinsurance undertaking ” means a
reinsurance undertaking, as defined in section 417(1) of FSMA 2000, in
relation to which PRA rules provide for the calculation of a best estimate of
future cash flows using the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure.

2.2

Any other term used in these Regulations which is used in PRA rules applicable
to insurance and reinsurance undertakings has the same meaning as in those
rules.

### PRA duty to publish technical information

3

3.1

Every quarter the PRA must publish on its website—

3.1.a

for each currency, duration, credit quality and asset class the PRA considers
appropriate, a fundamental spread for the calculation of the matching
adjustment to the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure used to
calculate the best estimate for a portfolio of long-term insurance or
reinsurance obligations, and

3.1.b

such other information as the PRA considers appropriate relating to the
calculation of—

3.1.b.i

technical provisions, and

3.1.b.ii

the SCR on the basis of the standard formula.

3.2

Paragraph 17(9)(b) of Schedule 6A to the Bank of England Act 1998
(restriction on delegation of functions by the Prudential Regulation
Committee) does not prohibit the making of a rule that imposes an obligation
on PRA-authorised persons by reference to information published by the PRA
under this regulation.

### Application of the matching adjustment

4

4.1

This regulation applies where an insurance or reinsurance undertaking (“the
undertaking”) applies to the PRA to disapply or modify its rules, such that
the applicant undertaking may apply a matching adjustment to the relevant
risk-free interest rate term structure in order to calculate the best estimate
of a portfolio of long-term insurance or reinsurance obligations.

4.2

Where this regulation applies, the PRA must grant the application where each
of the conditions set out in paragraphs (3) to (9) and (11) is met.

4.3

The undertaking must assign a portfolio of assets, consisting of bonds or
other assets with similar cash flow characteristics, to cover the best
estimate of the portfolio of insurance or reinsurance obligations.

4.4

The credit quality of the assets in the portfolio referred to in paragraph (3)
must be capable of being assessed through a credit rating or the undertaking’s
internal credit assessment of a comparable standard.

4.5

The undertaking must maintain the assignment referred to in paragraph (3) over
the lifetime of the obligations, except for the purpose of maintaining the
replication of expected cash flows between assets and liabilities where the
cash flows have materially changed.

4.6

The portfolio of long-term insurance or reinsurance obligations to which the
matching adjustment is applied and the assigned portfolio of assets must be—

4.6.a

identified, and

4.6.b

organised and managed separately from the other activities of the undertaking.

4.7

Subject to paragraph (8), the expected cash flows of the assigned portfolio of
assets must replicate each of the expected cash flows of the portfolio of
insurance or reinsurance obligations in the same currency.

4.8

Any mismatch between the expected cash flows referred to in paragraph (7) must
not give rise to risks which are material in relation to the risks inherent in
the insurance or reinsurance business to which the matching adjustment is
applied.

4.9

The cash flows of the assigned portfolio of assets must be fixed and not
capable of being changed by the issuers of the assets or any third parties,
except—

4.9.a

where—

4.9.a.i

the risks to the quality of matching are not material, and

4.9.a.ii

only such limited proportion of the portfolio as the PRA may determine is
affected;

4.9.b

where the cash flows of the assigned portfolio of assets are linked to
inflation, and the assets replicate the cash flows of the portfolio of
insurance or reinsurance obligations that are linked to inflation; or

4.9.c

in a case where issuers of the assets or third parties have the right to
change the cash flows of an asset, where sufficient compensation is paid to
secure an equivalent cash flow by reinvesting the compensation in an asset of
equivalent or better quality.

4.10

In paragraph (9)(a), whether a risk is material is to be determined in
accordance with any PRA rules referred to in regulation  7(b) .

4.11

The undertaking’s application must comply with the requirements of, or imposed
under, section 138BA of FSMA 2000  (disapplication or modification of rules in
individual cases) and the undertaking must comply with rules referred to in
regulation  7(a) .

4.12

This regulation does not prevent the PRA from exercising its powers under
section 138BA of FSMA 2000 where an undertaking to whom the PRA has granted a
permission to disapply or modify PRA rules in accordance with paragraph (2)
has failed to meet any of the conditions—

4.12.a

set out in paragraphs (3) to (9) and (11),

4.12.b

set out in rules referred to in regulation 7(b), or

4.12.c

imposed under section 138BA(4)(a) of FSMA 2000.

### Calculation of the matching adjustment

5

5.1

For each currency the matching adjustment referred to in regulation 4(1) must
be equal to the difference of—

5.1.a

the annual effective rate, calculated as the single discount rate that, where
applied to the cash flows of the portfolio of insurance or reinsurance
obligations, results in a value that is equal to the value of the portfolio of
assigned assets; and

5.1.b

the annual effective rate, calculated as the single discount rate that, where
applied to the cash flows of the portfolio of insurance or reinsurance
obligations, results in a value that is equal to the value of the best
estimate of the portfolio of insurance or reinsurance obligations where the
time value of money is taken into account using the basic relevant risk-free
interest rate term structure.

5.2

For the purpose of the calculation referred to in paragraph (1)—

5.2.a

“assigned assets” only includes assets whose expected cash flows are required
to replicate the cash flows of the portfolio of insurance and reinsurance
obligations, excluding any assets in excess of that;

5.2.b

valuations must comply with any requirements set out in PRA rules.

5.3

In paragraph (2), the “expected cash flow” of an asset means the cash flow of
the asset adjusted to allow for the probability of default of the asset that
corresponds to the element of the fundamental spread set out in regulation
6(3)(a)  or, where no reliable credit spread can be derived from the default
statistics, the portion of the long term average of the spread over the basic
relevant risk-free interest rate (as provided in regulation  6 (4) and (5)).

5.4

The matching adjustment must not include the fundamental spread (as calculated
in accordance with regulation  6 ) reflecting the risks retained by the
insurance or reinsurance undertaking.

5.5

The deduction of the fundamental spread under paragraph (4) from the result of
the calculation set out in paragraph (1) must include only the portion of the
fundamental spread (as calculated in accordance with regulation  6 ) that has
not already been reflected in the adjustment to the cash flows of the assigned
portfolio of assets in accordance with paragraphs (1) to (3).

### Calculation of fundamental spread

6

6.1

The fundamental spread referred to in regulation  5  must be calculated in a
transparent, prudent, reliable and objective manner that is consistent over
time and based on relevant indices where available.

6.2

The fundamental spread must be calculated in accordance with paragraphs (3) to
(9).

6.3

The fundamental spread must be equal to the sum of the following—

6.3.a

the credit spread corresponding to the probability of default of the assets,
and

6.3.b

the credit spread corresponding to the expected loss resulting from
downgrading of the assets.

6.4

For exposures to the central government of the United Kingdom and the Bank of
England, where the fundamental spread would otherwise be lower than 30% of the
long-term average of the spread over the risk-free interest rate of assets of
the same duration, credit quality and asset class, as observed in financial
markets (the “average spread”), the fundamental spread must be 30% of the
average spread.

6.5

For assets other than exposures to the central government of the United
Kingdom and the Bank of England, where the fundamental spread would otherwise
be lower than 35% of the long-term average of the spread over the risk-free
interest rate of assets of the same duration, credit quality and asset class,
as observed in financial markets (the “average spread”), the fundamental
spread must be 35% of the average spread.

6.6

For the purposes of this regulation—

6.6.a

the calculation of the “credit spread” must be based on the assumption that in
case of default 30% of the market value of the assets can be recovered;

6.6.b

the “probability of default” must be based on long-term default statistics
that are relevant for the asset in relation to its duration, credit quality
and asset class;

6.6.c

the “expected loss” must be based on long-term statistics that are relevant to
changes in the credit quality of the asset and correspond to the probability-
weighted loss the insurance or reinsurance undertaking incurs where the asset
is downgraded to a lower credit quality and is replaced immediately
afterwards, and the calculation of the expected loss must be based on the
assumption that the replacing asset meets all of the following criteria—

6.6.c.i

the replacing asset has the same cash flow pattern as the replaced asset
before downgrade;

6.6.c.ii

the replacing asset belongs to the same asset class as the replaced asset;

6.6.c.iii

the replacing asset has the same credit quality as the replaced asset before
downgrade or a higher one;

6.6.d

the “long-term average of the spread over the risk-free interest rate” must be
based on data relating to the previous 30 years;

6.6.e

the methods to derive the fundamental spread of a bond must be the same for
each currency and each country and may be different for government bonds and
for other bonds.

6.7

For the purposes of paragraph (6)(b) or (c), where no reliable credit spread
can be derived from the statistics, the fundamental spread must be equal to
the portion of the long-term average of the spread over the risk-free interest
rate set out in paragraph (4) or (5).

6.8

Where part of the data referred to in paragraph (6)(d) is not available or
where the available data is not reliable, constructed data based on prudent
assumptions may be used; and the constructed data must be based on available
and reliable data relating to the previous 30 years.

6.9

The fundamental spread calculated in accordance with this regulation may be
increased in accordance with PRA rules referred to in regulation  7(e)  or
7(f) .

### Power of PRA to make rules

7

Notwithstanding regulations 4 to 6, the PRA’s power to make general rules
under section 137G of FSMA 2000  (the PRA’s general rules) continues to
include power to make rules—

7.a

setting out conditions, in addition to those set out in regulation 4, under
which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking is eligible to apply a matching
adjustment, limited to conditions about—

7.a.i

the eligibility of insurance or reinsurance obligations for inclusion in the
portfolio to which the matching adjustment is applied; and

7.a.ii

the management of risks in relation to that portfolio or the assigned
portfolio of assets;

7.b

setting out the circumstances in which a risk is to be treated as material for
the purposes of regulation  4(9) (a);

7.c

requiring an insurance or reinsurance undertaking to limit the value of the
matching adjustment for the period during which the undertaking has failed to
meet any of the conditions—

7.c.i

set out in paragraphs (3) to (9) and (11) of regulation 4,

7.c.ii

set out in rules made under paragraph (b), or

7.c.iii

imposed under section 138BA(4)(a) of FSMA 2000;

7.d

concerning adjustments to be made by an insurance or reinsurance undertaking
to any information published by the PRA under regulation  3 (1)(a) to reflect
more precisely the credit quality of assets;

7.e

requiring an insurance or reinsurance undertaking whose assigned portfolio of
assets includes assets without fixed cash flows (excluding assets of the kind
specified in regulation 4(9)(b) or (c)) to increase the fundamental spread
calculated in accordance with regulation  6  by an amount to be determined in
accordance with the rules;

7.f

permitting an insurance or reinsurance undertaking to increase the fundamental
spread calculated in accordance with regulation  6  and any applicable rules
made under paragraph (e) where the undertaking considers an increase is
necessary to ensure that the fundamental spread covers all the risks retained
by the undertaking.

### PRA’s functions and powers under FSMA 2000

8

8.1

FSMA 2000 applies in relation to regulations  5  (calculation of the matching
adjustment) and  6  (calculation of fundamental spread) with the modifications
set out in paragraphs (2) to (8).

8.2

Section 39  (exemption of appointed representatives) applies as if in
subsection (4)—

8.2.a

“or” at the end of paragraph (a) were omitted;

8.2.b

after paragraph (a) there were inserted—

8.2.b.aa

regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings
(Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023, or

.

8.3

Section 66B  (misconduct: action by the PRA) applies as if in subsection (4)—

8.3.a

“or” at the end of paragraph (a) were omitted;

8.3.b

after paragraph (a) there were inserted—

8.3.b.aa

imposed by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings
(Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023, or

.

8.4

Section 168  (appointment of persons to carry out investigations in particular
cases) applies as if in subsection (4)—

8.4.a

“or” at the end of paragraph (jc) were omitted;

8.4.b

after paragraph (jc) there were inserted—

8.4.b.jd

an authorised person may have contravened regulation  5  or  6  of the
Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations
2023; or

.

8.5

Section 204A  (meaning of “ relevant requirement ” and “ appropriate regulator
”) applies as if—

8.5.a

in subsection (2)—

8.5.a.i

“or” at the end of paragraph (c) were omitted;

8.5.a.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of paragraph (d);

8.5.a.iii

after paragraph (d) there were inserted—

8.5.a.iii.e

by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings
(Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023.

;

8.5.b

in subsection (3), after paragraph (f) there were inserted—

8.5.b.g

a requirement under regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance
Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023.

.

8.6

Section 380  (injunctions) applies as if—

8.6.a

in subsection (6), in paragraph (a)—

8.6.a.i

“or” at the end of sub-paragraph (v) were omitted;

8.6.a.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of sub-paragraph (vi);

8.6.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (vi) there were inserted—

8.6.a.iii.vii

which is imposed by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance
Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023,

;

8.6.b

in subsection (8)—

8.6.b.i

“or” at the end of paragraph (b) were omitted;

8.6.b.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of paragraph (c);

8.6.b.iii

after paragraph (c) there were inserted—

8.6.b.iii.d

a requirement under regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance
Undertakings (Prudential Requirements)) Regulations 2023.

.

8.7

Section 382  (restitution orders) applies as if—

8.7.a

in subsection (9), in paragraph (a)—

8.7.a.i

“or” at the end of sub-paragraph (iii) were omitted;

8.7.a.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of sub-paragraph (iv);

8.7.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (iv) there were inserted—

8.7.a.iii.v

which is imposed by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and Reinsurance
Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023;

;

8.7.b

in subsection (11)—

8.7.b.i

“or” at the end of paragraph (b) were omitted;

8.7.b.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of paragraph (c);

8.7.b.iii

after paragraph (c) there were inserted—

8.7.b.iii.d

a requirement which is imposed by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and
Reinsurance Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023.

.

8.8

Section 384  (power of FCA or PRA to require restitution) applies as if—

8.8.a

in subsection (7)—

8.8.a.i

“or” at the end of paragraph (c) were omitted;

8.8.a.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of paragraph (d);

8.8.a.iii

after paragraph (d) insert there were inserted—

8.8.a.iii.e

a requirement which is imposed by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and
Reinsurance Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023.

;

8.8.b

in subsection (9)—

8.8.b.i

“or” at the end of paragraph (b) were omitted;

8.8.b.ii

“or” were inserted at the end of paragraph (c);

8.8.b.iii

after paragraph (c) there were inserted—

8.8.b.iii.d

a requirement which is imposed by regulation  5  or  6  of the Insurance and
Reinsurance Undertakings (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023.

.

### Review

9

9.1

The Treasury must from time to time—

9.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in regulations 3 to
8, and

9.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

9.2

The first report must be published before the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with 1st April 2024.

9.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding 5 years.

9.4

Each report must in particular—

9.4.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision
referred to in paragraph (1)(a),

9.4.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved,

9.4.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and

9.4.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way which involves less onerous regulatory provision.

9.5

In this regulation “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(duty to review regulatory provisions in secondary legislation) (see section
32 of that Act).

      Scott Mann   Stuart Anderson   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty’s Treasury     7th December 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations, together with rules to be made by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (“ PRA ”), restate some provisions of Articles 53 and 54
of Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) 2015/35  of 10th October 2014
supplementing  Directive 2009/138/EC  of the European Parliament and of the
Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and
reinsurance (Solvency II) (“ Regulation 2015/35 ”) and some provisions of
regulations 4B and 42 of the Solvency 2 Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/575 ), in
some cases with modifications. Those provisions of Regulation 2015/35 and the
Solvency 2 Regulations 2015 are revoked by section 1(1) of, and Schedule 1 to,
the Financial Services and Markets Act  2023 (c. 29)  and the revocations are
due to come into force on 30th June 2024. The draft PRA rules are available at
www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-
regulation/publication/2023/september/review-of-solvency-ii-reform-of-the-
matching-adjustment  and from the PRA at the address given below, and are also
due to come into force on 30th June 2024.

  For the purposes of these Regulations, “ insurance undertaking ” and “
reinsurance undertaking ” are defined so as to capture only those undertakings
to which the Insurance Rules for UK Solvency II firms’ sector of the PRA
Rulebook applies.

  Regulation 3 requires the PRA to publish technical information for the
purpose of calculating an insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s technical
provisions and the solvency capital requirement on the basis of the standard
formula. Requirements for undertakings to maintain technical provisions and as
to the application of (and basis for) the solvency capital requirement are set
out in PRA rules. Technical provisions are the reserves an undertaking must
hold against their expected future claims due to policyholders and
beneficiaries, including a buffer against the risk of the failure of the
undertaking. The solvency capital requirement is the level of capital an
undertaking must maintain to absorb losses in an extreme event, and which
gives reasonable assurance to policy holders and beneficiaries that payments
will be made as they fall due. Either it is calculated according to the
standard formula (prescribed in legislation and PRA rules) or according to an
internal model (subject to approval from the regulator).

  Regulation 4 requires the PRA to grant an insurance or reinsurance
undertaking approval to apply a matching adjustment where the undertaking
complies with the specified conditions. Regulations 5 and 6 provide how the
matching adjustment and fundamental spread are to be calculated. Further
provision about the calculation of the matching adjustment is to be set out in
PRA rules. Permission to apply a “matching adjustment” allows an undertaking
which holds long-term assets which match the cash flows of long-term insurance
liabilities to recognise as capital part of as yet unearned future cash flows.
The “fundamental spread” represents the risks retained by an undertaking with
permission to apply a matching adjustment, and is excluded from the
calculation of the matching adjustment.

  Regulation 7 makes provision about PRA rules related to regulations 3 to 6.
Regulation 8 ensures the PRA has available powers under the Financial Services
and Markets Act  2000 (c. 8)  to secure compliance with regulations 5 and 6.
Regulation 9 provides that these Regulations must be reviewed by the Treasury
within 5 years of their coming into force.

  The rules made by the PRA are available on  www.prarulebook.co.uk  and
copies of the rules can be obtained from the PRA, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R
6DA, where they are also available for inspection.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business, the voluntary sector and community bodies is available from
HM Treasury, 1 Horse Guards Road, London, SW1A 2HQ and is published with the
Explanatory Memorandum alongside this instrument at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

