Title: The Public Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-25
Description: These Regulations make modifications for the purposes of applying the correct tax treatment to public service pension schemes which are affected by the rectification of discrimination provisions contained in the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 (c. 7) (“PSPJOA 2022”). Modifications are made to enactments in their application in relation to a relevant person under the authority of section 11(2) and (3) of the Finance Act 2022 (c. 3). Authority for the retrospective effect of certain modifications made by these Regulations is provided for by section 11(4)(a) of the Finance Act 2022.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/113

## The Public Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023

    Income Tax       Capital Gains Tax       Inheritance Tax

  Made   2nd February 2023

  Laid before the House of Commons   6th February 2023

  Coming into force   6th April 2023

      The Treasury make these Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred
by section 11 of the Finance Act 2022 .

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Public Service Pension Schemes
(Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 6th April 2023.

1.3

These Regulations have effect so as to modify enactments in their application
in relation to a relevant person .

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ 2015 scheme election ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 2 of Part 1
of PSPJOA 2022 ;           “ accounting-for-tax return ” means a return under
section 254 of FA 2004 (accounting for tax by scheme administrators) ;
“ attributable ” (in Chapter 4 of Part 2) has the meaning given by regulation
33(7);           “ Chapter 1 legacy scheme ” has the same meaning as in
Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ Chapter 1 new scheme ” has the
same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ Chapter 1
scheme ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;
“ HMRC ” means His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;           “ judicial scheme
” has the same meaning as in Chapter 2 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “
judicial 2015 scheme ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 2 of Part 1 of
PSPJOA 2022;           “ local government new scheme ” has the same meaning as
in Chapter 3 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ pension scheme input amount
” has the meaning given by section 237B(2) of FA 2004 ;           “ RPS(AP)R
2009 ” means the Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations
2009 ;           “ RPS(PI)R 2006 ” means the Registered Pension Schemes
(Provision of Information) Regulations 2006 ;           “ the relevant Chapter
1 legacy scheme ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA
2022;           “ relevant rectification provision ” (except as provided in
regulation 8) means—         any of the following provisions of PSPJOA 2022—
section 2(1) (roll-back of remediable service to Chapter 1 legacy scheme);
section 6(5) (effect of making new scheme benefits election in respect of
pensioner or deceased member  of Chapter 1 legacy scheme);           section
10(4) (effect of making new scheme benefits election in respect of active or
deferred member of Chapter 1 legacy scheme);           section 42(2) (effect
of making legacy scheme election in respect of person with remediable service
in judicial office);           section 45(2) (effect of making 2015 scheme
election in respect of person with remediable service in judicial office);
any provision made by virtue of section 78 of that Act (local government
schemes: power to pay final salary benefits);                 “remediable
service benefits ” (in Chapter 4 of Part 2) has the meaning given by
regulation 32(6) and (7);           “ remediable service rights ” (in Chapter
2 of Part 2) has the meaning given by regulation 10(11) and (12);           “
scheme pays notice ” means a notice under section 237B(3) of FA 2004 ;
“ voluntary arrangements ” means arrangements under which a member of a
registered pension scheme pays voluntary contributions to the scheme;
“ voluntary contributions ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022
(see section 110(1) of that Act).

2.2

Expressions used in these Regulations, unless otherwise provided, have the
same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc).

### Modifications of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004

#### Contributions

##### Tax relief on pension contributions paid to Chapter 1 new scheme unaffected

3

In determining for the purposes of section 188 of FA 2004 (relief for
contributions)  whether an individual is at any time an active member of a
Chapter 1 new scheme, section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (roll-back of remediable
service to Chapter 1 legacy scheme) is to be ignored.

#### Annual allowance

##### Adjusted income and threshold income calculated on basis of legacy scheme contributions

4

4.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

4.1.a

in any tax year, an individual has remediable service (“the rolled-back
service”) that, by virtue of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, is pensionable
service under a Chapter 1 legacy scheme, and

4.1.b

that provision has effect, in relation to the rolled-back service, for the
purposes mentioned in section 2(3)(b) of that Act (effect of section 2(1) on
amount of benefits payable).

4.2

For the purposes of determining the individual’s adjusted income and threshold
income for the tax year—

4.2.a

any contributions (other than voluntary contributions) paid by the individual
to a Chapter 1 new scheme in the tax year in respect of the rolled-back
service are to be ignored, and

4.2.b

the individual is to be treated as having paid to the Chapter 1 legacy scheme,
in the tax year, the contributions that would have been payable by the
individual under the scheme in the tax year in respect of the rolled-back
service if the service had, at the time it took place, been pensionable
service under the scheme.

4.3

Any election in relation to the rolled-back service made by virtue of section
10 of PSPJOA 2022 (deferred choice to receive new scheme benefits) is to be
ignored for the purposes of determining whether the condition in paragraph
(1)(b) is met.

4.4

Paragraph (5) applies where—

4.4.a

a 2015 scheme election is made in relation to an individual, and

4.4.b

in any tax year, the individual has remediable service (“the rolled-forward
service”) that, by virtue of the election, is pensionable service under a
judicial 2015 scheme.

4.5

For the purposes of determining the individual’s adjusted income and threshold
income for the tax year—

4.5.a

any contributions (other than voluntary contributions) paid by the individual
to a judicial legacy scheme in the tax year in respect of the rolled-forward
service are to be ignored, and

4.5.b

the individual is to be treated as having paid to the judicial 2015 scheme, in
the tax year, the contributions that would have been payable by the individual
under the scheme in the tax year in respect of the rolled-forward service if
the service had, at the time it took place, been pensionable service under the
scheme.

4.6

In this regulation—

      “ adjusted income ” means adjusted income for the purposes of section
228ZA of FA 2004 (tapered reduction of annual allowance: high income
individual) ;           “ threshold income ” means threshold income for the
purposes of that section of that Act.

##### Provision of information by scheme administrators to the Commissioners

5

Regulation 3 of RPS(PI)R 2006 (provision of information by scheme
administrators to the Commissioners)  has effect as if, in paragraph (1), in
the table, in the entry for reportable event 22, in the first column, at the
end there were inserted “or is required to provide a member with a pension
savings statement under regulation 14A(6ZC)”.

##### Annual provision of information by scheme administrator to member

6

Regulation 14A of RPS(PI)R 2006 (annual allowance: annual provision of
information by scheme administrator to member)  has effect as if—

6.a

in paragraph (4), after “(5)” there were inserted  “, (5A)” ;

6.b

after paragraph (5) there were inserted—

6.b.5A

Paragraph (5B) applies where—

6.b.5A.a

the relevant tax year is 2022-2023,

6.b.5A.b

the registered pension scheme is a Chapter 1 scheme, and

6.b.5A.c

the member has any remediable service in any earlier tax year.

6.b.5B

The scheme administrator must provide the member with the pension savings
statement for that tax year no later than the rectification deadline.

;

6.c

after paragraph (6) there were inserted—

6.c.6ZA

Paragraph (6ZC) applies where—

6.c.6ZA.a

an individual is a member of a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial scheme,

6.c.6ZA.b

the aggregate of the member’s pension input amounts for a pension input period
changes as a result of the operation of a relevant rectification provision,
and

6.c.6ZA.c

either—

6.c.6ZA.c.i

the conditions in paragraph (1)(a) and (b) are met in relation to the member
and the pension input period, or

6.c.6ZA.c.ii

the member has already been provided with a pension savings statement for the
tax year in which the pension input period ends.

6.c.6ZB

Paragraph (6ZC) also applies where—

6.c.6ZB.a

an individual is a member of a local government new scheme,

6.c.6ZB.b

the member has already been provided with a pension savings statement for the
tax year in which the pension input period ends, and

6.c.6ZB.c

the pension input amount shown on that pension savings statement is incorrect
because the aggregate of the individual’s pension input amounts for a pension
input period has changed as a result of the operation of regulation 14(1) of
the Public Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination)
(Tax) Regulations 2023.

6.c.6ZC

The scheme administrator—

6.c.6ZC.a

is not required to amend, so as to reflect the change, any pension savings
statement previously provided under paragraph (1) relating to the member and
the pension input period;

6.c.6ZC.b

must, no later than the rectification deadline, provide the individual with a
statement (a “pension savings statement”) containing the information specified
in paragraph (2) (whether or not the individual has previously been provided
under paragraph (1) with a statement relating to the pension input period).

6.c.6ZD

Subject to paragraph (6ZE), “ the rectification deadline ”, in relation to a
member of a Chapter 1 scheme, a judicial scheme or a local government new
scheme, is 6th October 2024.

6.c.6ZE

Where the Chapter 1 scheme is a Chapter 1 legacy scheme and the member is a
pensioner or deceased member, “the rectification deadline” is the later of 6th
October 2024 and the end of the period of six months beginning with—

6.c.6ZE.a

the date on which an election under section 6 of PSPJOA 2022 is made in
respect of the member, or

6.c.6ZE.b

where no such election is made, the end of the section 6 election period.

6.c.6ZF

For the purposes of paragraph (6ZE) the member is a “pensioner or deceased
member” if an election under section 6 of PSPJOA 2022 (immediate choice to
receive new scheme benefits) has been made, or is capable of being made, in
respect of them.

6.c.6ZG

In this regulation and regulation 14B—

      “ Chapter 1 legacy scheme ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part
1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ Chapter 1 scheme ” has the same meaning as in
Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ judicial scheme ” has the same
meaning as in Chapter 2 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;           “ local government
new scheme ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022;
“ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service and Judicial Offices Act 2022;
“ the rectification deadline ” has the meaning given in paragraphs (6ZD) to
(6ZF);           “ relevant rectification provision ” means any of the
following provisions of PSPJOA 2022—         section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022
(roll-back of remediable service to Chapter 1 legacy scheme);
section 6(5) of PSPJOA 2022 (effect of making new scheme benefits election in
respect of pensioner or deceased member of Chapter 1 legacy scheme);
section 45(2) of PSPJOA 2022 (effect of making 2015 scheme election in respect
of person with remediable service in judicial office);                 “
remediable service ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA
2022;           “ section 6 election period ” has the same meaning as in
Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022.

.

##### Provision of information by scheme administrator to member on request

7

Regulation 14B of RPS(PI)R 2006 (annual allowance: provision of information to
member on request)  has effect as if—

7.a

in paragraph (1), in the second sentence, for “and (3)” there were substituted
“to   (9) ” ;

7.b

after paragraph (2) there were inserted—

7.b.2A

Paragraph (2B) applies where—

7.b.2A.a

the relevant tax year is 2022-2023,

7.b.2A.b

the registered pension scheme is a Chapter 1 scheme, and

7.b.2A.c

the member has any remediable service in any earlier tax year.

7.b.2B

The scheme administrator must provide the member with the information
requested under paragraph (1) before—

7.b.2B.a

the end of the period of three months beginning with the receipt of the
request, or

7.b.2B.b

if later, the rectification deadline.

;

7.c

in paragraph (3), in sub-paragraph (b), after paragraph (ii) there were
inserted—

, or

7.c.iii

where the conditions mentioned in sub-paragraph (4) are met, the rectification
deadline.

;

7.d

after paragraph (3) there were inserted—

7.d.4

The conditions referred to in paragraph (3)(b)(iii) are—

7.d.4.a

that the relevant tax year is 2022-2023,

7.d.4.b

that the registered pension scheme is a Chapter 1 scheme, and

7.d.4.c

that the member has any remediable service in any earlier tax year.

7.d.5

Paragraph (6) applies where—

7.d.5.a

a member is sent a statement containing information in response to a request
under paragraph (1), and

7.d.5.b

after the statement is sent, either—

7.d.5.b.i

the aggregate of the member’s pension input amounts for the relevant pension
input period changes as a result of the operation of a relevant rectification
provision, or

7.d.5.b.ii

the pension input amount shown on that pension savings statement is incorrect
because the aggregate of the individual’s pension input amounts for the
relevant pension input period has changed as a result of the operation of
regulation 14(1) of the Public Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of
Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023.

7.d.6

The scheme administrator must, before the rectification deadline, provide the
member with a revised statement containing updated information.

7.d.7

Paragraph (9) applies where—

7.d.7.a

a member makes a request under paragraph (1), and

7.d.7.b

after the request is made, but before the member is sent a statement in
response to the request, the aggregate of a member’s pension input amounts for
a pension input period changes as a result of the operation of a relevant
rectification provision.

7.d.8

Paragraph (9) also applies where—

7.d.8.a

the aggregate of a member’s pension input amounts for a pension input period
changes as a result of the operation of a relevant rectification provision,
and

7.d.8.b

subsequently, the member makes a request under paragraph (1).

7.d.9

The scheme administrator must provide the member with the information
requested before—

7.d.9.a

the end of the period of six months beginning with the receipt of the request,
or

7.d.9.b

if later, the rectification deadline.

.

##### Chapter 1 schemes and judicial 2015 schemes: operation of scheme pays for remedy years

8

8.1

Paragraphs (2) to (6) apply where—

8.1.a

an individual has any remediable service in a tax year that is pensionable
service under a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial 2015 scheme, and

8.1.b

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, the amount of the
individual’s liability to the annual allowance charge for the tax year
increases.

8.2

Section 237B of FA 2004 (liability of scheme administrator)  applies in
relation to the tax year and the individual separately in relation to—

8.2.a

the individual’s liability to the annual allowance charge for the tax year
disregarding the increase, and

8.2.b

the individual’s liability to the annual allowance charge for the tax year
represented by the increase.

8.3

In the application of section 237B of FA 2004 as it applies by virtue of
paragraph (2)(b)—

8.3.a

the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) are to be treated
as met;

8.3.b

subsection (3) has effect as if—

8.3.b.i

for “the scheme administrator of the pension scheme” there were substituted
“the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 scheme or the judicial 2015 scheme,
within the meaning of Chapter 1 or Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Public Service
Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022,” ;

8.3.b.ii

for paragraph (a) there were substituted—

8.3.b.ii.a

does not exceed the increase in the individual’s liability to the annual
allowance charge for the tax year mentioned in regulation 8(1)(b) of the
Public Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination)
(Tax) Regulations 2023, and

;

8.3.c

subsections (4) to (4B) are to be ignored.

8.3.d

subsection (5)(a) has effect as if “(but subject to subsection (6))” were
omitted;

8.3.e

subsection (6) is to be ignored.

8.4

In the application of section 237BA of FA 2004 (time limit for scheme pays
notices)  in relation to a scheme pays notice given under section 237B of FA
2004 as that section applies by virtue of paragraph (2)(b), the reference in
subsection (2) of that section to 31st July is to be read as a reference to
6th July 2025 or, where the condition in paragraph (5) is met, 6th July 2027.

8.5

The condition is that—

8.5.a

the remediable service in question is pensionable under a Chapter 1 legacy
scheme, and

8.5.b

the member is a pensioner  ... member.

8.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5)(b) the member is a “pensioner  ... member”
if an election under section 6 of PSPJOA 2022 (immediate choice to receive new
scheme benefits) has been made, or is capable of being made, in respect of
them.

8.7

In this regulation “ relevant rectification provision ” means any of the
following provisions of PSPJOA 2022—

8.7.a

section 2(1) (roll-back of remediable service to Chapter 1 legacy scheme);

8.7.b

section 6(5) (effect of making new scheme benefits election in respect of
pensioner or deceased member of Chapter 1 legacy scheme);

8.7.c

section 45(2) (effect of making 2015 scheme election in respect of person with
remediable service in judicial office).

##### Chapter 1 schemes: operation of scheme pays for 2022-23

9

9.1

Section 237B of FA 2004 (liability of scheme administrator) applies in
relation to—

9.1.a

a Chapter 1 scheme,

9.1.b

the tax year 2022-23, and

9.1.c

an individual who has any remediable service in any earlier tax year,

subject to the modifications specified in paragraph (2).

9.2

The modifications of section 237B of FA 2004 mentioned in paragraph (1) are as
follows—

9.2.a

the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) are to be treated
as met;

9.2.b

subsection (3) has effect as if for paragraph (a) there were substituted—

9.2.b.a

does not exceed—

A × B C where— “A” is the amount of the individual’s liability to the annual
allowance  charge for the tax year; “B” is the aggregate of the pension input
amounts  for the tax year in respect of arrangements relating to the
individual under the pension scheme; “C” is the aggregate of the pension input
amounts for the tax year in respect of arrangements relating to the individual
under all registered pension schemes; and

;

9.2.c

subsections (4) to (4B) are to be ignored.

9.2.d

subsection (5)(a) has effect as if “(but subject to subsection (6))” were
omitted;

9.2.e

subsection (6) is to be ignored.

9.3

In the application of section 237BA of FA 2004 in relation to a scheme pays
notice given in relation to a Chapter 1 scheme for the tax year 2022-23 by an
individual who has any remediable service in any earlier tax year, the
reference in subsection (2) of that section to 31st July is to be read as a
reference to 6th July 2025 or, where the condition in paragraph (4) is met,
6th July 2027.

9.4

The condition is that—

9.4.a

the remediable service in question is pensionable under a Chapter 1 legacy
scheme, and

9.4.b

the member is a pensioner  ... member.

9.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(b) the member is a pensioner  ... member if
an election under section 6 of PSPJOA 2022 (immediate choice to receive new
scheme benefits) has been made, or is capable of being made, in respect of
them.

##### Chapter 1 schemes: scheme pays treated as operated by legacy schemes

10

10.1

Paragraphs (3) to (10) apply where—

10.1.a

an individual’s pension scheme input amount in relation to a Chapter 1 new
scheme for a tax year is (disregarding the effect of section 2(1) of PSPJOA
2022) determined by reference to the individual’s remediable service rights
under the scheme,

10.1.b

the individual gave a scheme pays notice to the scheme administrator of the
scheme in respect of the individual’s liability for the annual allowance
charge for the tax year,

10.1.c

the joint and several liability under section 237B(7) of FA 2004 of the scheme
administrator resulting from the notice has not been discharged under section
237D of FA 2004, and

10.1.d

as a result of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remediable service is
pensionable service under a Chapter 1 legacy scheme.

10.2

Paragraphs (3) to (10) also apply where—

10.2.a

the conditions in sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of paragraph (1) are met, and

10.2.b

the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme has, in response to a
request from the individual, at any time agreed to pay an amount in respect of
the annual allowance charge.

10.3

The scheme pays notice is to be treated as not having been given to the scheme
administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme but as having instead been given to
the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy scheme (so that the latter
scheme administrator, and not the former, became jointly and severally liable
under section 237B(7) of FA 2004 with the individual for the amount specified
in the notice).

10.4

The request from the individual is to be treated as not having been given to
the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme but as having instead
been given to the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy scheme.

10.5

Any payment made by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme—

10.5.a

in satisfaction of the joint and several liability as a result of the notice,
or

10.5.b

under the agreement to pay in response to the request from the individual,

is to be treated as not having been made by that scheme administrator but as
having been made instead by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy
scheme.

10.6

Where only part of the pension scheme input amount in relation to the scheme
for the tax year is determined by reference to the individual’s remediable
service rights under the scheme—

10.6.a

paragraph (3) or (4) applies to the scheme pays notice, or to the request from
the individual (as the case may be), only so far as the annual allowance
charge for the tax year is referable to those rights;

10.6.b

paragraph (5) applies to a payment made by the scheme administrator of the
Chapter 1 new scheme only so far as the annual allowance charge in respect of
which it is made is referable to those rights.

10.7

For the purposes of paragraph (6) an annual allowance charge is, so far as
possible, to be regarded as referable to rights of the individual under the
scheme that are not remediable service rights.

10.8

In determining the individual’s pension input amounts (for any tax year)—

10.8.a

any adjustment made under section 237E of FA 2004 to the benefits payable to
the individual in consequence of a payment within paragraph (5) is to be
ignored;

10.8.b

any adjustment made to the benefits payable to the individual in consequence
of a payment under paragraph (5)(b) is to be ignored.

10.9

Where the amount of the annual allowance charge in respect of which the scheme
pays notice is given, or the request from the individual is made (as the case
may be), reduces as a result of the operation of a relevant rectification
provision, the notice or the request is to be treated as specifying—

10.9.a

the reduced amount, or

10.9.b

where the notice or the request specified only a proportion of the annual
allowance charge, the same proportion of the reduced amount.

10.10

Neither the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme, nor the scheme
administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy scheme, is required, in consequence of
anything in this regulation, to amend any accounting-for-tax return they have
already made.

10.11

In this Chapter “ remediable service rights ”, in relation to an individual
and a Chapter 1 scheme, means rights under the scheme in respect of the
individual’s remediable service in an office or employment.

10.12

When determining, for the purposes of paragraph (11), the rights of an
individual that are in respect of the individual’s remediable service in an
employment or office, any rights that result from voluntary arrangements
entered into by the individual are to be ignored.

##### Chapter 1 schemes: administrative provisions relating to scheme pays

11

11.1

Paragraphs (2) to (6) apply where—

11.1.a

an individual’s pension scheme input amount in relation to a Chapter 1 new
scheme for a tax year is (disregarding the effect of section 2(1) of PSPJOA
2022) determined by reference to the individual’s remediable service rights
under the scheme,

11.1.b

the individual has become liable for the annual allowance charge for the tax
year (whether or not the liability has subsequently been discharged),

11.1.c

the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme—

11.1.c.i

has, as a result of the receipt of a scheme pays notice, at any time become
jointly and severally liable for any or all of the annual allowance charge
(whether or not the liability has subsequently been discharged), or

11.1.c.ii

has, in response to a request from the individual, at any time agreed to pay
an amount in respect of the annual allowance charge (whether or not the amount
has subsequently been paid), and

11.1.d

as a result of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remediable service is
pensionable service under a Chapter 1 legacy scheme.

11.2

The scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme must provide the
following information to the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy
scheme—

11.2.a

the name and pension scheme tax reference number of the Chapter 1 new scheme;

11.2.b

the name and national insurance number of the individual;

11.2.c

in a case in which the individual has given a scheme pays notice to the scheme
administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme in relation to the annual allowance
charge—

11.2.c.i

the tax year to which the notice relates;

11.2.c.ii

the date on which the notice was received;

11.2.c.iii

the amount of the annual allowance charge for which, on receipt of the notice,
the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme became jointly and
severally liable;

11.2.c.iv

if any of that amount is attributable to the operation of voluntary
arrangements under the Chapter 1 scheme, the amount so attributable;

11.2.c.v

the period covered by the accounting-for-tax return on which the liability was
shown or, if no accounting-for-tax return was made that showed the liability,
a statement of that fact;

11.2.c.vi

whether any amount has been paid in respect of the liability and, if so, the
amount of the payment and the date on which it was paid;

11.2.d

in a case in which the individual has requested that the scheme administrator
of the Chapter 1 new scheme pay an amount in respect of the annual allowance
charge for the tax year—

11.2.d.i

the tax year to which the request relates;

11.2.d.ii

the amount of the annual allowance charge which the scheme administrator has
agreed to pay;

11.2.d.iii

if any of that amount is attributable to the operation of voluntary
arrangements under the Chapter 1 scheme, the amount so attributable;

11.2.d.iv

the period covered by the accounting-for-tax return on which the amount agreed
to be paid was shown or, if no accounting-for-tax return was made that showed
the amount, a statement of that fact;

11.2.d.v

whether any amount has been paid pursuant to the agreement and, if so, the
amount of the payment and the date on which it was paid.

11.3

Where only part of the pension scheme input amount in relation to the scheme
for the tax year is determined by reference to the individual’s remediable
service rights under the scheme, paragraphs (2)(c)(iii) and (d)(ii) apply only
to so much of the annual allowance charge for the tax year as is referable to
those rights.

11.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3) an annual allowance charge is, so far as
possible, to be regarded as referable to rights of the individual under the
scheme that are not remediable service rights.

11.5

If the amount paid by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy scheme
in respect of the individual’s liability for the annual allowance charge for
the tax year (after taking into account regulation 10(5)) exceeds the amount
of that liability, the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy scheme may
reclaim the excess from HMRC only on the making of an application.

11.5A

An application under paragraph (5) must be made on or before 1st April 2027.

11.6

An application under paragraph (5)—

11.6.a

must be accompanied by—

11.6.a.i

a declaration that the application is made by the scheme administrator;

11.6.a.ii

a declaration as to the accuracy of the information contained in the
application;

11.6.a.iii

a declaration that the applicant understands the consequences of providing
false information; and

11.6.b

must contain the following information—

11.6.b.i

the pension scheme name and tax reference number;

11.6.b.ii

the scheme administrator identity reference provided by HMRC;

11.6.b.iii

the name and national insurance number of the scheme member;

11.6.b.iv

the amount of the charge paid, the date on which, and the charge reference
number under which, it was paid;

11.6.b.v

the pension scheme tax reference number of the scheme under which the scheme
administrator reported and paid the amount of the charge to HMRC;

11.6.b.vi

the tax year and quarter covered by the accounting-for-tax return on which the
charge was reported to HMRC;

11.6.b.vii

the revised amount of the annual allowance charge;

11.6.b.viii

the amount of tax being reclaimed;

11.6.b.ix

if a repayment is claimed, the amount and the account details to which
repayment is to be made;

11.6.b.x

if a reallocation is claimed, that amount and the charge reference to which it
is to be allocated.

11.7

Paragraph (8) applies where—

11.7.a

an individual’s pension scheme input amount in relation to a Chapter 1 new
scheme for a tax year is (disregarding the effect of section 2(1) of PSPJOA
2022) determined by reference to the individual’s rights in respect of the
individual’s remediable service,

11.7.b

as a result of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022, the remediable service is
pensionable service under a Chapter 1 legacy scheme,

11.7.c

the individual has an outstanding liability for the annual allowance charge
for the tax year, and

11.7.d

the individual gives a scheme pays notice to the scheme administrator of the
Chapter 1 legacy scheme in respect of that outstanding liability (or any part
of it).

11.8

The scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 legacy scheme must include the
following information on the accounting-for-tax return for the period in which
the scheme pays notice is received—

11.8.a

whether a payment (“the previous payment”) in respect of the annual allowance
charge for the tax year has already been reported by the scheme administrator,
or by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme, and

11.8.b

if so—

11.8.b.i

the amount of the previous payment, the tax year to which it relates, and the
date on which it was made;

11.8.b.ii

the period covered by the accounting-for-tax return that included particulars
of the previous payment;

11.8.b.iii

whether the previous payment was made by the scheme administrator of the
Chapter 1 legacy scheme or the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new
scheme;

11.8.b.iv

if the previous payment was made by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1
new scheme, the pension scheme tax reference number of that scheme.

##### Chapter 1 legacy schemes: effect of new scheme benefits election in first pension input period

12

12.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

12.1.a

a new scheme benefits election is made in relation to the remediable service
of an individual, and

12.1.b

as a result of the election, the pension input amount in respect of an
arrangement under the relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme for the retirement
pension input period would (disregarding paragraph (2)) increase.

12.2

For the purposes of determining the pension input amount of the individual in
respect of the arrangement for the retirement pension input period, the
individual is to be treated, on and after the coming into effect of the
election, as entitled to the benefits determined by reference to the
remediable service that the individual would have been entitled to if the
election had not been made.

12.3

In this regulation—

      “ new scheme benefits election ” means an election under section 6 or 10
of PSPJOA 2022;           “ relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme ” means the
Chapter 1 legacy scheme under which the remediable service of the individual
is pensionable service;           “ retirement pension input period ” means
the pension input period ending in the tax year in which the new scheme
benefits election comes into effect.

##### Chapter 1 legacy schemes: effect of new scheme benefits election in later pension input periods

13

13.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

13.1.a

a new scheme benefits election is made in relation to the remediable service
of an individual, and

13.1.b

at the beginning of the first post-retirement pension input period, the
individual is entitled under an arrangement under the relevant Chapter 1
legacy scheme to—

13.1.b.i

the present payment of benefits determined otherwise than by reference to the
remediable service, and

13.1.b.ii

the future payment of benefits  ....

13.2

For the purposes of determining the pension input amounts of the individual in
respect of arrangements under the relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme for the
first post-retirement pension input period or any subsequent pension input
period, the individual’s rights to the benefits mentioned in paragraph
(1)(b)(i) and the individual’s rights to the benefits mentioned in paragraph
(1)(b)(ii) are to be treated as arising under separate arrangements.

13.3

In this regulation—

“ the first post-retirement pension input period ” means the pension input
period of the individual immediately following the pension input period of the
individual in which the new scheme benefits election comes into effect; “ new
scheme benefits election ” means an election under section 6 or 10 of PSPJOA
2022; “ relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme ” means the Chapter 1 legacy scheme
under which the remediable service of the individual is pensionable service.

##### Local government new schemes: final salary uplifts ignored in calculating pension input amount

14

14.1

A final salary uplift to which an individual is or may become entitled is to
be ignored for the purposes of determining the individual’s pension input
amounts for any pension input period.

14.2

In this regulation “ final salary uplift ” means an increase in the benefits
payable to the individual under regulations made by virtue of section 78(1) of
PSPJOA 2022 (power of local government new scheme to pay final salary benefits
in respect of remediable service).

14.3

This regulation is to be treated as always having had effect.

##### Judicial schemes and local government schemes: administrative provisions relating to scheme pays

15

15.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

15.1.a

an individual’s pension scheme input amount in relation to a judicial 2015
scheme for a tax year is determined by reference to the individual’s
remediable service rights under the scheme,

15.1.b

the individual has become liable for the annual allowance charge for the tax
year (whether or not the liability has subsequently been discharged),

15.1.c

the scheme administrator of the judicial 2015 scheme—

15.1.c.i

has, as a result of the receipt of a scheme pays notice, at any time become
jointly and severally liable for any or all of the annual allowance charge
(whether or not the liability has subsequently been discharged), or

15.1.c.ii

has, in response to a request from the individual, at any time agreed to pay
an amount in respect of the annual allowance charge (whether or not the amount
has subsequently been paid),

15.1.d

an amount has been paid by the scheme administrator in respect of the
individual’s liability for the annual allowance charge for the tax year, and

15.1.e

the amount of the individual’s liability for the annual allowance charge has
reduced, as a result of a relevant rectification provision.

15.2

The scheme administrator—

15.2.a

is not required to amend any accounting-for-tax return previously made in
respect of the liability;

15.2.b

may reclaim from HMRC, only on the making of an application, the lower of—

15.2.b.i

the amount by which the individual’s liability reduced as a result of the
relevant rectification provision, and

15.2.b.ii

the amount paid by the scheme administrator in respect of the individual’s
liability for the annual allowance charge.

15.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

15.3.a

an individual’s pension scheme input amount in relation to a local government
new scheme for a tax year is determined by reference to the individual’s
remediable service rights under the scheme,

15.3.b

the individual has become liable for the annual allowance charge for the tax
year (whether or not the liability has subsequently been discharged),

15.3.c

the scheme administrator of the local government new scheme—

15.3.c.i

has, as a result of the receipt of a scheme pays notice, at any time become
jointly and severally liable for any or all of the annual allowance charge
(whether or not the liability has subsequently been discharged), or

15.3.c.ii

has, in response to a request from the individual, at any time agreed to pay
an amount in respect of the annual allowance charge (whether or not the amount
has subsequently been paid),

15.3.d

an amount has been paid by the scheme administrator in respect of the
individual’s liability for the annual allowance charge for the tax year, and

15.3.e

the amount of the individual’s liability for the annual allowance charge has
reduced, as a result of the operation of regulation 14(1).

15.4

The scheme administrator—

15.4.a

is not required to amend any accounting-for-tax return previously made in
respect of the liability;

15.4.b

may reclaim from HMRC, only on the making of an application, the lower of—

15.4.b.i

the amount by which the individual’s liability reduced as a result of the
operation of regulation 14(1), and

15.4.b.ii

the amount paid by the scheme administrator in respect of the individual’s
liability for the annual allowance charge.

15.4A

An application under paragraph (2)(b) or (4)(b) must be made on or before 1st
April 2027.

15.5

An application under paragraph (2)(b) or (4)(b) must contain the following
information—

15.5.a

must be accompanied by—

15.5.a.i

a declaration that the application is made by the scheme administrator;

15.5.a.ii

a declaration as to the accuracy of the information contained in the
application;

15.5.a.iii

a declaration that the applicant understands the consequences of providing
false information; and

15.5.b

must contain the following information—

15.5.b.i

the pension scheme name and tax reference number;

15.5.b.ii

the scheme administrator identity reference provided by HMRC;

15.5.b.iii

the name and national insurance number of the individual scheme member;

15.5.b.iv

the amount of the charge paid, the date on which, and the charge reference
number under which, it was paid;

15.5.b.v

the pension scheme tax reference number of the scheme under which the scheme
administrator reported and paid the amount of the charge to HMRC;

15.5.b.vi

the tax year and quarter covered by the accounting-for-tax return on which the
charge was reported to HMRC;

15.5.b.vii

the revised amount of the tax charge;

15.5.b.viii

the amount of tax being reclaimed;

15.5.b.ix

if a repayment is claimed, the amount and the details of the bank account to
which repayment is to be made;

15.5.b.x

if a reallocation is claimed, the amount and the charge reference to which it
is to be allocated.

#### Benefits

##### Protected pension age in Chapter 1 legacy scheme unaffected by new scheme benefits election

16

16.1

Paragraph (2) applies for the purposes of determining whether the relevant
protected pension age condition is met in relation to an individual and a
Chapter 1 legacy scheme.

16.2

The effect of any election made in relation to the individual by virtue of
section 6 or 10 of PSPJOA 2022 (election for new scheme benefits under Chapter
1 legacy scheme) on the time at which benefits become payable under the scheme
is to be ignored.

16.3

In this regulation “ the relevant protected pension age condition ” means the
condition in sub-paragraph (7)(a) of paragraph 22 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004
(protected pension age available under pension scheme  only if entitlement to
all benefits under the scheme arises on the same date) .

##### Protected pension age in Chapter 1 new scheme unaffected by roll-back

17

17.1

Paragraph (2) applies for the purposes of determining whether the relevant
protected pension age condition is met in relation to an individual and a
Chapter 1 new scheme.

17.2

The effect, in relation to the individual, of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022
(roll-back of remediable service to Chapter 1 legacy scheme) on the existence
of any actual or prospective right under the scheme immediately before 4
November 2021 is to be ignored.

17.3

In this regulation “ the relevant protected pension age condition ” means the
condition in sub-paragraph (3)(a) of paragraph 23ZB of Schedule 36 to FA 2004
(protected pension age available under pension scheme only if individual has
right under scheme immediately before 4 November 2021) .

##### Pension commencement lump sum: additional lump sum paid to member

18

18.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

18.1.a

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, an amount by way of lump
sum (“the additional lump sum”) has become payable to an individual under a
pension scheme, and

18.1.b

the additional lump sum—

18.1.b.i

is paid to the individual after the end of the period specified in paragraph
1(1)(c) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (time period within which pension
commencement lump sum  must be paid) ,

18.1.b.ii

could not reasonably have been paid within that period, and

18.1.b.iii

would, if it had been paid within that period, have been a pension
commencement lump sum.

18.2

The additional lump sum is a pension commencement lump sum.

##### Trivial commutation lump sum: lump sum already paid

19

19.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

19.1.a

an individual has been paid a lump sum which, disregarding the relevant
rectification provisions, is a trivial commutation lump sum , and

19.1.b

as a result of the operation of a relevant rectification provision—

19.1.b.i

the condition in paragraph 7(1)(b) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (commutation
limit)  has ceased to be met in relation to the lump sum, or

19.1.b.ii

the condition in paragraph 7(1)(d) of that Schedule (extinguishment of rights)
has ceased to be met in relation to the lump sum.

19.2

The lump sum is, and is treated as always having been, a trivial commutation
lump sum.

##### Trivial commutation lump sum: additional lump sum paid to member

20

20.1

Paragraphs (2) to (4) apply where—

20.1.a

an individual has been paid a trivial commutation lump sum (“the original
TCLS”),

20.1.b

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, the individual has acquired
rights under a registered pension scheme, and

20.1.c

the individual is paid a lump sum (“the top-up lump sum”) which, disregarding—

20.1.c.i

paragraph 7(1)(a) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (requirement that no previous
trivial commutation lump sum has been paid), and

20.1.c.ii

paragraph 7(1)(b) of that Schedule (maximum value on commutation date),

would be a trivial commutation lump sum.

20.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the top-up lump sum is to be treated as a trivial
commutation lump sum.

20.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply if—

20.3.a

the top-up lump sum exceeds £10,000, and

20.3.b

the aggregate of—

20.3.b.i

the top-up lump sum, and

20.3.b.ii

the value of the individual’s pension rights on the nominated date  in
relation to the original TCLS (as determined under paragraph 7(5) of Schedule
29 to FA 2004),

exceeds £30,000.

20.4

Regulation 3 of RPS(AP)R 2009 (commutation payments) does not apply in
relation to the top-up lump sum.

##### Serious ill-health lump sum already paid: status unaffected

21

21.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

21.1.a

an individual has been paid a lump sum which, disregarding the relevant
rectification provisions, is a serious ill-health lump sum , and

21.1.b

as a result of the operation of a relevant rectification provision, the
condition in paragraph 4(1)(ca) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (extinguishment of
rights)  has ceased to be met in relation to the lump sum.

21.2

The lump sum is, and is to be treated as always having been, a serious ill-
health lump sum.

##### Serious ill-health lump sum: additional lump sum paid to member

22

22.1

Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply where—

22.1.a

an individual has been paid a serious ill-health lump sum in respect of an
arrangement ,

22.1.b

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, the individual has acquired
rights under the arrangement (“the retrospective entitlement”),

22.1.c

the individual is paid a lump sum (“the top-up SIHLS”) in respect of that
arrangement which, disregarding paragraph 4(1)(ca) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004
(requirement that lump sum extinguish uncrystallised rights), would be a
serious ill-health lump sum in respect of that arrangement, and

22.1.d

the top-up SIHLS extinguishes the retrospective entitlement.

22.2

The top-up SIHLS is to be treated as a serious ill-health lump sum.

22.3

Regulation 3 of RPS(AP)R 2009 (commutation payments) does not apply in
relation to the payment.

##### Scheme pension: additional scheme pension paid in respect of deceased member

23

23.1

Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply where—

23.1.a

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, an amount or amounts by way
of scheme pension  (“the scheme pension arrears”) have become payable to a
member (“ P ”) or to P’s personal representatives,

23.1.b

P dies without having been paid the scheme pension arrears, and

23.1.c

the scheme pension arrears are paid instead to P’s personal representatives.

23.2

The payment—

23.2.a

is to be treated as falling within section 164(1) of FA 2004 (authorised
member payments) ;

23.2.b

is to be treated as pension paid under a registered pension scheme for the
purposes of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 ;

23.2.c

is to be treated for those purposes as pension accruing in the tax year in
which it is paid.

23.3

Regulation 4 of RPS(AP)R 2009 (pension errors) does not apply in relation to
the payment.

##### Pension commencement lump sum: additional lump sum paid for deceased member

24

24.1

Paragraphs (2) to (5) apply where—

24.1.a

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, an amount by way of lump
sum (“the additional lump sum”) has become payable to a member (“ P ”), or to
P’s personal representatives, under a pension scheme,

24.1.b

the additional lump sum would have been a pension commencement lump sum if it
had been paid to P within the period specified in paragraph 1(1)(c) of
Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (time period within which pension commencement lump sum
must be paid),

24.1.c

P dies without having been paid the additional lump sum, and

24.1.d

the additional lump sum is paid to P’s personal representatives.

24.2

The payment—

24.2.a

is to be treated as falling within section 164(1) of FA 2004 (authorised
member payments);

24.2.b

is to be treated as a pension commencement lump sum paid under a registered
pension scheme for the purposes of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 .

24.3

The making of the payment is to be treated as a benefit crystallisation event
in relation to P for the purposes of the lifetime allowance charge .

24.4

The amount crystallised for the purposes of that benefit crystallisation event
is the amount of the payment.

24.5

Regulation 5 of RPS(AP)R 2009 (lump sum errors) does not apply in relation to
the payment.

##### Trivial commutation lump sum: additional lump sum paid for deceased member

25

25.1

Paragraphs (2) to (5) apply where—

25.1.a

an individual (“ P ”) has been paid a trivial commutation lump sum (“the
original TCLS”);

25.1.b

as a result of a relevant rectification provision P, or P’s personal
representatives, have acquired rights under a registered pension scheme,

25.1.c

P dies without having received benefits in respect of the rights,

25.1.d

a lump sum (“the top-up lump sum”) is paid to P’s personal representatives,
and

25.1.e

the top-up lump sum would have been a trivial commutation lump sum if—

25.1.e.i

P had still been living when it was paid, and

25.1.e.ii

it had been paid to P.

25.2

In determining whether the condition in paragraph (1)(e) is met, the following
provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (trivial commutation lump
sum) are to be disregarded—

25.2.a

sub-paragraph (1)(a) (requirement that no previous trivial commutation lump
sum has been paid), and

25.2.b

sub-paragraph (1)(b) (maximum value on nominated date).

25.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the top-up lump sum is to be treated as a trivial
commutation lump sum.

25.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply if—

25.4.a

the top-up lump sum exceeds £10,000, and

25.4.b

the aggregate of—

25.4.b.i

the top-up lump sum, and

25.4.b.ii

the value of the individual’s pension rights on the nominated date in relation
to the original TCLS (as determined under paragraph 7(5) of Schedule 29 to FA
2004),

exceeds £30,000.

25.5

Regulation 3 of RPS(AP)R 2009 (commutation payments) does not apply in
relation to the top-up lump sum.

##### Serious ill-health lump sum: additional lump sum paid for deceased member

26

26.1

Paragraphs (2) to (6) apply where—

26.1.a

an individual (“ P ”) has been paid a serious ill-health lump sum in respect
of an arrangement,

26.1.b

as a result of a relevant rectification provision P, or P’s personal
representatives, have acquired rights under the arrangement (“the
retrospective entitlement”),

26.1.c

P dies without having received benefits in respect of the retrospective
entitlement,

26.1.d

a lump sum (“the top-up SIHLS”) is paid to P’s personal representatives at a
time at which some of P’s lifetime allowance  is available, and

26.1.e

the top-up SIHLS extinguishes the retrospective entitlement.

26.2

The payment is to be treated as a serious ill-health lump sum paid to P under
a registered pension scheme.

26.3

The making of the payment is to be treated as a benefit crystallisation event
in relation to P for the purposes of the lifetime allowance charge.

26.4

The amount crystallised for the purposes of that benefit crystallisation event
is the amount of the payment.

26.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

26.6

Regulation 3 of RPS(AP)R 2009 (commutation payments) does not apply in
relation to the payment.

##### Recovery of underpaid lifetime allowance charge by reduction of scheme pension

27

27.1

Paragraph (3) applies where—

27.1.a

an individual (“ P ”) has become entitled to a scheme pension,

27.1.b

in a subsequent tax year, as a result of a relevant rectification provision—

27.1.b.i

a lifetime allowance charge retrospectively arises in respect of the benefit
crystallisation event mentioned in sub-paragraph (a), or

27.1.b.ii

the amount of a lifetime allowance charge that arose in respect of that
benefit crystallisation event retrospectively increases,

27.1.c

the scheme administrator  of the scheme under which the scheme pension is
payable pays the new charge or (as the case may be) the increase in the
charge, and

27.1.d

as a result of that payment, the rate of the scheme pension payable to P
reduces.

27.2

Paragraph (3) also applies where—

27.2.a

an individual (“ P ”) has become entitled to a scheme pension,

27.2.b

the scheme administrator of the scheme under which the scheme pension is
payable pays a liability arising under regulation 36 (liability for lifetime
allowance charge where private sector scheme discharged from liability), and

27.2.c

as a result of that payment, the rate of the scheme pension payable to P
reduces.

27.3

The reduction of the rate of the scheme pension does not prevent the scheme
pension satisfying the condition in paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 28 to FA 2004
(requirement that rate of scheme pension does not reduce) .

##### Scheme pension already paid: status of overpaid amount unaffected

28

28.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

28.1.a

an individual has at any time become entitled to a scheme pension, and

28.1.b

at a later time, as a result of a relevant rectification provision, one or
more payments of scheme pension made to the individual before the later time
include amounts (“overpaid pension amounts”) to which the individual was not
entitled.

28.2

The payments of overpaid pension amounts—

28.2.a

are to be treated as falling, and are to be treated as always having fallen,
within section 164(1) of FA 2004 (authorised member payments);

28.2.b

are to be treated as, and are to be treated as always having been, pension
paid under a registered pension scheme for the purposes of Part 9 of ITEPA
2003;

28.2.c

are to be treated for those purposes as, and are to be treated as always
having been, pension accruing in the tax year in which they are paid.

##### Pension commencement lump sum already paid: status of overpaid amount unaffected

29

29.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

29.1.a

an individual has at any time been paid a pension commencement lump sum, and

29.1.b

as a result of a relevant rectification provision, the payment includes an
amount (“the overpaid lump sum amount”) which (disregarding this regulation)
has ceased to be a pension commencement lump sum.

29.2

The overpaid lump sum amount is to be treated as, and is to be treated as
always having been, a pension commencement lump sum.

##### Pension commencement lump sum already paid: repayment of overpaid amount

30

30.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

30.1.a

an individual has at any time been paid a pension commencement lump sum under
a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial scheme,

30.1.b

the payment includes an amount (“the overpayment”) which, as a result of a
relevant rectification provision, was not payable to the individual, and

30.1.c

the liability under section 14(5) or 51(4) of PSPJOA 2022 owed to the scheme
in respect of the overpayment has been discharged in full.

30.2

The amount crystallised by the benefit crystallisation event in connection
with the individual’s entitlement to the pension commencement lump sum is to
be treated as not including, and is to be treated as never having included,
the overpayment.

##### Top-up defined benefits lump sum death benefit treated in same way as original payment

31

31.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

31.1.a

a defined benefits lump sum death benefit  is at any time paid under a
registered pension scheme in respect of the death of an individual,

31.1.b

the payment is made before the end of the relevant two-year period,

31.1.c

as a result of a relevant rectification provision the amount of the defined
benefits lump sum death benefit payable under the scheme in respect of the
death increases,

31.1.d

an amount (“the top-up DBLSDB”) is paid in respect of the increase, and

31.1.e

the top-up DBLSDB is not paid before the end of the relevant two-year period.

31.2

The top-up DBLSDB is to be treated for the purposes of the provisions listed
in paragraph (3) as having been paid before the end of the relevant two-year
period.

31.3

The provisions referred to in paragraph (2) are—

31.3.a

section 636AA(3) of ITEPA 2003 (circumstances in which payment of defined
benefits lump sum death benefit is taxable) ;

31.3.b

section 206(1B) of FA 2004 (circumstances in which payment of defined benefits
lump sum death benefit is subject to the special lump sum death benefits
charge) ;

31.3.c

paragraph 16(a) of Schedule 32 to FA 2004 (circumstances in which payment of
defined benefits lump sum death benefit constitutes a benefit crystallisation
event 7) .

31.4

In this regulation “ the relevant two-year period ” means the period of two
years beginning with the earlier of the day on which the scheme administrator
of the scheme first knew of the individual’s death and the day on which the
scheme administrator could first reasonably have been expected to have known
of it.

#### Lifetime allowance charge

##### Charges paid by Chapter 1 new schemes treated as paid by Chapter 1 legacy schemes

32

32.1

Paragraphs (2) to (4) apply where, before the coming into force of section
2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (and disregarding the effect of that provision)—

32.1.a

a benefit crystallisation event has taken place in relation to an individual
in connection with the individual’s entitlement under a Chapter 1 new scheme
to any remediable service benefits, and

32.1.b

the scheme administrator of that scheme became liable under section 217 of FA
2004 (persons liable to the lifetime allowance charge)  for a lifetime
allowance charge  in connection with the benefit crystallisation event.

32.2

Any accounting-for-tax return made by the scheme administrator of the Chapter
1 new scheme in respect of the liability, so far as it relates to the
remediable service benefits, is to be treated for all purposes—

32.2.a

as not having been made by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new
scheme, and

32.2.b

as having been made instead by the scheme administrator of the relevant
Chapter 1 legacy scheme.

32.3

Any payment made by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme in
respect of the liability, so far as it relates to the remediable service
benefits, is to be treated for all purposes—

32.3.a

as not having been paid by the scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new
scheme, and

32.3.b

as having been paid instead by the scheme administrator of the relevant
Chapter 1 legacy scheme.

32.4

The scheme administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme must give to the scheme
administrator of the relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme the following
information—

32.4.a

the particulars included in any accounting-for-tax return that the scheme
administrator of the Chapter 1 new scheme has previously made in respect of
the liability, and

32.4.b

such further information relating to any such return as the scheme
administrator of the relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme may reasonably request.

32.5

A request under paragraph (4)(b) may be made in relation to accounting-for-tax
returns generally, or in relation to a particular return.

32.6

In this Chapter “ remediable service benefits ” means benefits that are
calculated by reference to an individual’s remediable service in an office or
employment.

32.7

When determining, for the purposes of paragraph (6), the benefits that are
calculated by reference to an individual’s remediable service in an employment
or office, any benefits that result from voluntary arrangements entered into
by the individual are to be ignored.

##### Reporting and payment by public service scheme of charges affected by rectification

33

33.1

Paragraphs (3) to (5) apply where—

33.1.a

before the relevant time, a benefit crystallisation event takes place in
relation to an individual in connection with the individual’s entitlement
under a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial scheme to any remediable service
benefits, and

33.1.b

a lifetime allowance charge, or any part of such a charge, that is charged in
connection with the benefit crystallisation event is attributable to a
relevant rectification provision.

33.2

In paragraph (1) “ the relevant time ” means—

33.2.a

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a Chapter 1 scheme, the time
at which section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 comes into force;

33.2.b

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a judicial scheme, the time
at which a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of the individual.

33.3

The relevant scheme administrator is not required, as a result of the effect
of the relevant rectification provision, to amend any accounting-for-tax
return previously made in respect of their liability for the charge.

33.4

For the purposes of section 254(2) of FA 2004 (which specifies when a scheme
administrator must account for tax to HMRC), the lifetime allowance charge, or
the part of the lifetime allowance charge, mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) is to
be taken to be charged on the relevant scheme administrator in the period
following that in which the scheme administrator becomes aware of the effect
of the relevant rectification provision on the lifetime allowance charge.

33.5

An accounting-for-tax return for a period in which tax is to be treated by
paragraph (4) as having been charged—

33.5.a

must be accompanied by a declaration by the relevant scheme administrator that
the return accounts for tax that is attributable to the application of a
relevant rectification provision,

33.5.b

must state whether a payment (“the previous payment”) in respect of the
lifetime allowance charge has already been reported by the scheme
administrator, or by the scheme administrator of a Chapter 1 new scheme, and

33.5.c

if so, must contain the following information—

33.5.c.i

the amount of the previous payment, the tax year to which it relates and the
date on which the payment was made;

33.5.c.ii

the period covered by the accounting-for-tax return that included particulars
of the previous payment;

33.5.c.iii

whether the previous payment was made by the scheme administrator or by the
scheme administrator of a Chapter 1 new scheme;

33.5.c.iv

if the previous payment was made by the scheme administrator of a Chapter 1
new scheme, the pension scheme tax reference number of that scheme.

33.6

In this regulation “ the relevant scheme administrator ” means the scheme
administrator who (after taking into account the relevant rectification
provisions) is liable under section 217(1) of FA 2004) for the lifetime
allowance charge in question.

33.7

For the purposes of this Chapter a lifetime allowance charge, or a part of
such a charge, is “attributable” to a relevant rectification provision if it
would not have been charged apart from the provision.

##### Application required by schemes to reclaim overpayment resulting from rectification

34

34.1

Paragraphs (3) and (4) apply where—

34.1.a

before the relevant time, a benefit crystallisation event takes place in
relation to an individual in connection with the individual’s entitlement
under a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial scheme to any remediable service
benefits,

34.1.b

the relevant scheme administrator has (after taking into account regulation
32(3)) paid an amount of a lifetime allowance charge that arose in connection
with the benefit crystallisation event, and

34.1.c

the amount paid is, as a result of the effect of a relevant rectification
provision, greater than the amount owed in respect of the lifetime allowance
charge.

34.2

In paragraph (1) “ the relevant time ” means—

34.2.a

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a Chapter 1 scheme, the time
at which section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 comes into force;

34.2.b

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a judicial scheme, the time
at which a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of the individual.

34.3

The relevant scheme administrator is not required, as a result of the effect
of the relevant rectification provision, to amend any accounting-for-tax
return previously made in respect of their liability for the charge.

34.4

The relevant scheme administrator is entitled to a repayment of the excess
mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) only on the making of an application.

34.4A

The application must be made on or before 1st April 2027.

34.5

The application—

34.5.a

must be accompanied by—

34.5.a.i

a declaration that the application is made by the scheme administrator;

34.5.a.ii

a declaration as to the accuracy of the information contained in the
application;

34.5.a.iii

a declaration that the applicant understands the consequences of providing
false information; and

34.5.b

must contain the following information—

34.5.b.i

the pension scheme name and tax reference number;

34.5.b.ii

the scheme administrator identity reference provided by HMRC;

34.5.b.iii

the name and national insurance number of the scheme member;

34.5.b.iv

the amount of the charge paid, the date on which, and the charge reference
number under which, it was paid;

34.5.b.v

the pension scheme tax reference number of the scheme under which the scheme
administrator reported and paid the amount of the charge to HMRC;

34.5.b.vi

the tax year and quarter covered by the accounting-for-tax return on which the
charge was reported to HMRC;

34.5.b.vii

the revised amount of the lifetime allowance charge;

34.5.b.viii

the amount of tax being reclaimed;

34.5.b.ix

if a repayment is claimed, the amount and the account details to which
repayment is to be made;

34.5.b.x

if a reallocation is claimed, that amount and the charge reference to which it
is to be allocated.

34.6

In this regulation “ the relevant scheme administrator ” means the scheme
administrator who (after taking into account the relevant rectification
provisions) is liable under section 217(1) of FA 2004 for the lifetime
allowance charge in question.

##### Public service schemes not permitted to apply for discharge of increased charge

35

35.1

Paragraph (3) applies where—

35.1.a

before the relevant time, a benefit crystallisation event takes place in
relation to an individual in connection with the individual’s entitlement
under a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial scheme to any remediable service
benefits, and

35.1.b

a lifetime allowance charge, or any part of such a charge, that is charged in
connection with the benefit crystallisation event is attributable to a
relevant rectification provision.

35.2

In paragraph (1) “ the relevant time ” means—

35.2.a

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a Chapter 1 scheme, the time
at which section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 comes into force;

35.2.b

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a judicial scheme, the time
at which a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of the individual.

35.3

The relevant scheme administrator is not entitled to make an application under
section 267 of FA 2004 (application for discharge of scheme administrator’s
liability for lifetime allowance charge) in respect of their liability for the
unpaid lifetime allowance charge mentioned in paragraph (1)(b).

35.4

In this regulation “ the relevant scheme administrator ” means the scheme
administrator who (after taking into account the relevant rectification
provisions) is liable under section 217(1) of FA 2004 for the lifetime
allowance charge in question.

##### Public service scheme to be liable where private sector scheme discharged

36

36.1

Paragraph (3) applies where—

36.1.a

before the relevant time, a benefit crystallisation event has taken place in
relation to an individual (“the individual”) in connection with the
individual’s entitlement under a Chapter 1 scheme or a judicial scheme to any
remediable service benefits,

36.1.b

a later benefit crystallisation event (“the later BCE”) takes place in
relation to the individual in connection with the individual’s entitlement to
any benefits under a pension scheme that is not a public service pension
scheme (“ the private sector scheme ”),

36.1.c

a lifetime allowance charge, or any part of such a charge, that is charged in
connection with the later BCE is attributable to a relevant rectification
provision, and

36.1.d

the scheme administrator of the private sector scheme makes a successful
application under section 267 of FA 2004 (application for discharge of scheme
administrator’s liability for lifetime allowance charge) in respect of their
liability for the lifetime allowance charge, or part of such a charge,
mentioned in sub-paragraph (c).

36.2

In paragraph (1) “ the relevant time ” means—

36.2.a

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a Chapter 1 scheme, the time
at which section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 comes into force;

36.2.b

in relation to an individual’s entitlement under a judicial scheme, the time
at which a 2015 scheme election is made in respect of the individual.

36.3

The scheme administrator of the pension scheme under which the remediable
service benefits are payable is liable (jointly and severally with the
individual) for the lifetime allowance charge, or part of such charge,
mentioned in paragraph (1)(c).

36.4

The Registered Pension Schemes (Accounting and Assessment) Regulations 2005
have effect subject to the following modifications.

36.5

Regulation 3 (particulars required to be included in returns under section 254
of FA 2004 of income tax to which a scheme administrator is liable)  has
effect as if, in Table 1, in the entry for section 214 of FA 2004 (lifetime
allowance charge) at the end there were inserted “(other than a charge to
which the scheme administrator is liable under regulation 36(3) of the Public
Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax)
Regulations 2023.”.

36.6

Regulation 4 (the making of assessments)  has effect as if, in Table 2, at the
end there were inserted—

      Case 9: a charge to tax arises under regulation 36(3) of the Public
Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax)
Regulations 2023. The person who is liable to the charge.

.

36.7

Regulation 5 (interest)  has effect as if, in Table 3, at the end there were
inserted—

      Tax assessed under case 9. The day after the date on which the tax
charged in connection with the later BCE became due from the individual. For
this purpose “ the later BCE ” and “ the individual ” have the same meaning as
in regulation 36 of the Public Service Pension Schemes (Rectification of
Unlawful Discrimination) (Tax) Regulations 2023.

.

#### Individual protection 2016

##### Election for new scheme benefits under Chapter 1 scheme taken into account

37

37.1

An election under section 6 or 10 of PSPJOA 2022 (election for new scheme
benefits under Chapter 1 legacy scheme) is to be treated for the purposes of
determining an individual’s relevant amount under Part 2 of Schedule 4 to FA
2016 (individual protection 2016)  as having taken effect on 5 April 2016.

37.2

Section 7(1)(b) and section 11(3)(b) and (4) of PSPJOA 2022 (time at which
elections take effect) are subject to paragraph (1).

##### Final salary benefits under local government new scheme taken into account

38

38.1

Paragraph (2) applies where regulations made by virtue of section 78(1) of
PSPJOA 2022 (final salary benefits in local government new schemes) provide
that an individual’s benefits under a local government new scheme in relation
to any remediable service are, or in any circumstances would be, final salary
benefits.

38.2

For the purposes of determining the individual’s “relevant amount” under Part
2 of Schedule 4 to FA 2016 (individual protection 2016), the individual’s
benefits in relation to the remediable service are to be treated as always
having been the amount determined in accordance with the regulations.

38.3

In this regulation “ final salary benefits ” has the same meaning as in
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022 (local government schemes) (see section
87(2) of that Act).

##### Deadline for provision of information by schemes disapplied

39

In regulation 14C(1) of RPS(PI)R 2006 (scheme administrator required to
provide individual with information on request) , sub-paragraph (c) (condition
that request be received before 6th April 2020) does not apply in relation to
information relating to benefits that are calculated by reference to an
individual’s remediable service in an employment or office.

#### Fixed protection 2016

##### Increase in rights as a result of new scheme benefits election ignored

40

Any increase in an individual’s rights as a result of an election under
section 6 or 10 of PSPJOA 2022 (election for new scheme benefits under Chapter
1 legacy scheme) is to be ignored for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b) of
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to FA 2016 (protection cessation events: benefit
accrual).

##### Final salary uplift under local government scheme ignored

41

41.1

Any increase in an individual’s rights as a result of regulations made under
section 78(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (final salary benefits in local government
schemes) is to be ignored for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b) of
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to FA 2016 (protection-cessation events: benefit
accrual).

41.2

This regulation is treated as always having had effect.

##### Transfers from PPA in accordance with PSPJOA 2022 ignored

42

42.1

Any relevant PPA transfer is to be ignored for the purposes of paragraph 3(c)
of Schedule 4 to FA 2016 (protection-cessation events: permitted transfers).

42.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant PPA transfer ” means—

42.2.a

a transfer of sums or assets to a Chapter 1 scheme in accordance with
regulations made under section 5(6)(b) of PSPJOA 2022 (transfers from
partnership pension accounts), or

42.2.b

a transfer of sums or assets to a judicial scheme for the purposes of
complying with section 41 of that Act (transfers from partnership pension
accounts).

#### Transfers

##### Transfers from PPA in accordance with PSPJOA 2022 treated as recognised transfers

43

43.1

Any relevant PPA transfer, to the extent that it would otherwise not be a
recognised transfer, is to be treated as a recognised transfer.

43.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant PPA transfer ” means—

43.2.a

a transfer of sums or assets held for the purposes of a partnership pension
account to a Chapter 1 scheme in accordance with regulations made under
section 5(1) of PSPJOA 2022 (election for retrospective provision to apply to
opted-out service), or

43.2.b

a transfer of sums or assets held for the purposes of a partnership pension
account to a judicial scheme for the purposes of complying with section 41 of
that Act (requirement to transfer and surrender PPA rights).

43.3

In this regulation “ recognised transfer ” has the meaning given by section
169 of FA 2004 (recognised transfers) .

### Modifications of Schedule 15 to FA 2020

#### Tax relief for compensation payments

44

44.1

Schedule 15 to FA 2020 (tax relief for scheme payments etc)  has effect
subject to the following modifications.

44.2

Paragraph 2 (qualifying payments) has effect as if—

44.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “(5)” there were substituted  “(5) and (5A)” ;

44.2.b

after sub-paragraph (5) there were inserted—

44.2.b.5A

A payment is within this sub-paragraph if it is a compensation payment made
under or by virtue of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022.

.

44.3

Paragraph 3 (exemption from income tax) has effect as if after sub-paragraph
(5) there were inserted—

44.3.6

This paragraph has effect in relation to qualifying payments within paragraph
2(5A) whenever received.

.

44.4

Paragraph 4 (exemptions from capital gains tax) has effect as if, in sub-
paragraph (3)—

44.4.a

the “and” at the end of paragraph (b) were omitted;

44.4.b

after paragraph (c) there were inserted—

, and

44.4.b.d

in a case where the qualifying payment concerned is within paragraph 2(5A), in
relation to disposals whenever made.

.

44.5

Paragraph 5 (relief from inheritance tax) has effect as if—

44.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “sub-paragraph (4)” there were substituted  “sub-
paragraphs (4) and (4A)” ;

44.5.b

after sub-paragraph (4) there were inserted—

44.5.b.4A

This paragraph does not apply in a case where the qualifying payment is within
paragraph 2(5A).

.

      Nigel Huddleston   Scott Mann   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty’s Treasury     2nd February 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make modifications for the purposes of applying the
correct tax treatment to public service pension schemes which are affected by
the rectification of discrimination provisions contained in the Public Service
Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA 2022”). Modifications
are made to enactments in their application in relation to a relevant person
under the authority of section 11(2) and (3) of the Finance Act  2022 (c. 3) .
Authority for the retrospective effect of certain modifications made by these
Regulations is provided for by section 11(4)(a) of the Finance Act 2022.

  Under the rectification provisions in that Act, pension scheme members
(except members of local government schemes) can choose the benefits they will
receive or, for members of judicial schemes, the scheme they will receive
benefits from, for the relevant remedy period (1st April 2015 to 31st March
2022 or, for Agency schemes (as defined in section 38 of PSPJOA 2022), 1st
April 2016 to 31st March 2022). Members of local government schemes will
receive an automatic uplift in their benefits in the remedy period (1st April
2015 to 31st March 2022 or, for local government pension schemes in England
and Wales, from 1st April 2014) where the remedy applies.

  Part 1 provides for citation, commencement, effect and interpretation.

  Part 2 contains modifications to the pension tax enactments relevant to the
main areas affected: contributions (Chapter 1), annual allowance (Chapter 2),
benefits (Chapter 3), lifetime allowance (Chapters 4, 5 and 6) and transfers
(Chapter 7).

  In relation to contributions to pension schemes, Chapter 1 provides that tax
relief is preserved on contributions to a new scheme that is subject to the
roll-back of pensionable service to a legacy scheme under section 2 of PSPJOA
2022 (regulation 3).

  For the annual allowance tax charge, Chapter 2 contains provisions to
achieve parity of tax treatment in respect of pension rights under legacy and
new schemes in relation to calculating the allowance and tax charge
(regulations 4, 12, 13, 14), liability to, payment of tax and repayment of
overpaid tax (regulations 8, 9, 10) and administrative provisions for the
scheme administrators of both legacy and new schemes (regulations 5, 6, 7, 11
and 15).

  In respect of benefits paid to members (or to their estate after death), the
main provisions in Chapter 3 (regulations 16 to 26, 28 and 29) provide that
payments of pension and lump sums affected by the rectification provisions in
PSPJOA 2022 are treated (in relation to the remedy period) as authorised
member payments for tax purposes, even where they would otherwise not meet the
conditions (as to timing of payment, for example) for such treatment.

  Chapters 4, 5 and 6 contain provisions to preserve the tax treatment for the
lifetime allowance charge for legacy and new schemes affected by the
rectification provisions, including reporting and payment of the charge
(regulations 32, 33), claims for overpayment (regulation 34), liability and
discharge (regulations 35, 36) and individual and fixed protection
(regulations 37 to 41). Chapter 7 (regulation 43) provides for certain
transfers of sums or assets held in a partnership pension account to a Chapter
1 scheme or a judicial scheme to be treated as recognised transfers for the
purposes of the pension provisions in the Finance Act  2004 (c. 12) .

  Part 3 modifies Schedule 15 to the Finance Act  2020 (c. 14)  in order to
preserve income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax treatment for
compensation payments made under or by virtue of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022.

  A Tax Information and Impact Note covering section 11 of the Finance Act
2022 (under which this instrument is made) was published on 27th October 2021
alongside the Finance Bill and is available on the website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/taxation-of-public-service-pension-
reform-remedy/taxation-of-public-service-pension-reform-remedy . It remains an
accurate summary of the impacts that apply to this instrument.

