Title: The Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) (Amendment) (Test Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 by substituting a new Schedule 4.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/124

## The Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) (Amendment) (Test Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Road Traffic And Vehicles

  Made   5th September 2023

  Coming into operation   1st October 2023

      The Department for Infrastructure  makes the following Regulations, in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 5(3), (4) and (5), 19C(1) and
218(1) of the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981  and now vested in it
.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences)
(Amendment) (Test Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come
into operation on 1 st  October 2023.

### Amendment of the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations

2

For Schedule 4 of the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1996  substitute —

  Fees for Tests

Regulation 22

######### FEES FOR PRACTICAL TESTS

      Column (1) Column (2) Column (3) Category or sub-category of vehicle
Test, other than an extended driving test, commencing — Extended driving test
commencing — (a) During normal hours (b) Out of hours (a) During normal hours
(b) Out of hours   1. AM £80.00 £110.00 £160.00 — 2. A1, A2 and A £80.00
£110.00 £160.00 — 3. B £65.00 £95.00 £130.00 — 4. F, G, H and K £65.00 — — —
5. B+E, C, C1, D, D1, C+E, C1+E, D+E and D1+E £87.00 £137.00 — — 6. B1
(invalid carriages) Nil Nil Nil Nil

######### FEES FOR SPECIAL MANOEUVRES TESTS

      Column (1) Column (2) Category or sub-category of vehicle Special
manoeuvres test, commencing — (a) During normal hours (b) Out of hours   1.
AM, A1, A2 and A £45.00 £60.00

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 5
th  September 2023         Chris Hughes   A senior officer of the Department
for Infrastructure

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1996 by substituting a new Schedule 4.

  In Part 1 of Schedule 4 (fees for practical tests) the following fees are
increased —     a     the fee for a test, other than an extended test, for
vehicles in category AM is increased from £58.00 to £80.00 for a test
commencing during normal hours and from £71.00 to £110.00 for a test
commencing out of hours;         b     the fee for an extended test for
vehicles in category AM is increased from £116.00 to £160.00 for a test
commencing during normal hours;         c     the fee for a test, other than
an extended test, for vehicles in categories A1, A2 and A is increased from
£58.00 to £80.00 for a test commencing during normal hours and from £71.00 to
£110.00 for a test commencing out of hours;         d     the fee for an
extended driving test for vehicles in category A1, A2 and A is increased from
£116.00 to £160.00 for a test commencing during normal hours;         e
the fee for a test, other than an extended test, for vehicles in category B is
increased from £45.50 to £65.00 for a test commencing during normal hours and
from £62.50 to £95.00 for a test commencing out of hours;         f     the
fee for an extended driving test for vehicles in category B is creased from
£91.00 to £130.00 for a test commencing during normal hours;         g     the
fee for a test for vehicles in categories F, G, H and K is increased from
£45.50 to £65.00 for a test commencing during normal hours;         h     the
fee for a test for vehicles in categories B+E, C, C1, D, D1, C+E, C1+E, D+E
and D1+E is increased from £66.00 to £87.00 for a test commencing during
normal hours and from £99.00 to £137.00 for a test commencing out of hours.

  In Part 2 of Schedule 4 (fees for special manoeuvres tests) the fee for a
special manoeuvres test for vehicles in categories AM, A1, A2 and A is
increased from £31.00 to £45.00 for a test commencing during normal hours and
from £43.00 to £60.00 for a test commencing out of hours.

  An Explanatory Memorandum has been produced and is available from Safe and
Accessible Travel Division, Department for Infrastructure, Clarence Court,
10-8 Adelaide Street, Town Parks, Belfast BT2 8GB or online alongside this
Regulation at  http//www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr

