Title: The National Health Service Pension Schemes (Amendment) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-07-02
Description: These Regulations further amend the National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 1995 (S.I. 1995/300) (“the 1995 Regulations”), the National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015 (S.I. 2015/94) (“the 2015 Regulations”), and the National Health Service Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations 2015 (S.I. 2015/95) (“the 2015 Transitional Regulations”) and make temporary modifications of certain member contributions provisions in the 2015 Regulations.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/301

## The National Health Service Pension Schemes (Amendment) Regulations 2023

    Public Service Pensions, England And Wales       National Health Service,
England And Wales

  Made   8th March 2023

  Laid before Parliament   10th March 2023

  Coming into force   1st April 2023

      The Secretary of State for Health and Social Care makes the following
Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10(1) and (2) of,
and Schedule 3 to, the Superannuation Act 1972  (“ the 1972 Act ”) and
sections 1(1) and (2)(e), 2(1) and 3(1) to (3) of, and paragraph 5(a) of
Schedule 2 and Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act 2013  (“ the
2013 Act ”).       In accordance with section 10(4) of the 1972 Act and
section 21(1) of the 2013 Act, the Secretary of State has consulted such
persons or representatives of such persons as appear to the Secretary of State
likely to be affected by these Regulations.           In accordance with
section 10(1) of the 1972 Act  and section 3(5) of the 2013 Act, these
Regulations are made with the consent of the Treasury.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the National Health Service Pension Schemes
(Amendment) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st April 2023.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

### Amendment of the National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 1995

#### General

2

The National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 1995  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation K2

3

In regulation K2 (guaranteed minimum pensions) , in paragraph (2)(b), for
“reduced or suspended under regulation S1 or S2 (members who return to NHS
employment after becoming entitled to a pension)” substitute  “reduced under
regulation S2 (reduction of pension on return to NHS employment)” .

#### Amendment of regulation R4

4

In regulation R4 (members doing more than one job), omit paragraph (8).

#### Omission of regulation S1

5

Omit regulation S1 (suspension of pension on return to NHS employment) .

#### Amendment of regulation S2

6

In regulation S2 (reduction of pension on return to NHS employment), in
paragraph (14), for the definition of “NHS employment” substitute—

      “ NHS employment ” includes—         employment in respect of which
regulations made under section 10 of the Superannuation Act 1972, and having
effect in Scotland, apply; employment to which regulations made under Article
12 of the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 apply and employment
commencing on or before 31st March 2012 to which a scheme made under section 2
of the Superannuation Act 1984 (an Act of Tynwald) applies; and
employment with an employer with whom an agreement has been made under section
235 of the 2006 Act or in respect of whom a direction has been made under
section 7 of the Superannuation (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1967.

### Amendment of the National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015

#### General

7

The National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 19

8

In regulation 19 (restrictions on membership) , in sub-paragraph (1)(g),
insert  “(iv) a primary care network management company”  and after  “APMS
contract”  insert  “or primary care network standard sub-contract” .

#### Amendment of regulation 30

9

9.1

Regulation 30 (members’ contributions: employees)  is amended as follows.

9.2

In paragraph (3), for “2022/23”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“2023/24” .

9.3

In paragraph (3A), for “2022/23”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“2023/24” .

#### Amendment of regulation 31

10

10.1

Regulation 31 (members’ contributions: practitioners and non-GP providers)  is
amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph (9)—

10.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “each scheme year from 2015/16 to 2021/22, Table 1”
substitute  “the scheme year 2022/23, Table 1A and Table 1B as applicable” ;

10.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “2022/23” substitute  “2023/24” ;

10.2.c

for the heading “Table 1 Scheme Years from 2015/16 to 2021/22” substitute
“Table 1A Scheme Year 2022/23 from 1st April 2022 to 30th September 2022” ;

10.2.d

after new Table 1A, insert—

  Table 1B Scheme Year 2022/23 from 1st October 2022 to 31st March 2023
Column 1     Column 2     Pensionable earnings band   Contribution percentage
rate   Up to £13,246 5.1% £13,247 to £16,831 5.7% £16,832 to £22,878 6.1%
£22,879 to £23,948 6.8% £23,949 to £28,223 7.7% £28,224 to £29,179 8.8%
£29,180 to £43,805 9.8% £43,806 to £49,245 10.0% £49,246 to £56,163 11.6%
£56,164 to £72,030 12.5% £72,031 and above 13.5%

;

10.2.e

in the heading for Table 2, for “2022/23” substitute  “2023/24” .

#### Amendment of regulation 33

11

In regulation 33 (contributions by employing authorities), in the table
following paragraph (6), after both occurrences of “OOH provider”, and after
“non-GP provider”, insert  “or a primary care network management company” .

#### Amendment of regulation 38

12

In regulation 38 (members’ contributions: supplementary: medical practitioners
and non-GP providers) , in paragraph (2)(a), after “in accordance” insert
“with” .

#### Amendment of regulation 86

13

In regulation 86 (terms of employment improve after election), in paragraph
(3), after “regulation 85(2)” insert  “(a) and (b)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 105

14

In regulation 105 (previous earnings: general), in paragraph (7), in the
definition of “re-valued pensionable earnings”, after “by order” insert  “(in
respect of the NHS Pension Scheme 2015)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 150

15

In regulation 150 (interpretation), in paragraph (3)  insert  “(e) a primary
care network standard sub-contract .” .

#### Amendment of regulation 166

16

16.1

Regulation 166 (medical practitioner)  is amended as follows.

16.2

In paragraphs (4) and (5) insert a new sub-paragraph  “(d) a primary care
network management company.” .

16.3

In paragraph (7), after the first occurrence of “a Local Health Board” insert
“or a primary care network management company”  and after the second
occurrence insert  “or as a party to a primary care network standard sub-
contract” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 9

17

17.1

Schedule 9 (pension accounts) is amended as follows.

17.2

In paragraph 1 (interpretation)—

17.2.a

for the definition of “index adjustment” substitute—

      “ index adjustment ” means—         in relation to the opening balance
of earned pension for a scheme year (other than the opening balance of club
transfer earned pension), the percentage increase or decrease in prices
specified in an order (in respect of the NHS Pension Scheme 2015) made by the
Treasury under section 9(2) of the 2013 Act in relation to the previous scheme
year, plus 1.5%; and           in relation to the opening balance of club
transfer earned pension for a scheme year, the adjustment that is—
equal to the adjustment that would apply to the opening balance of that amount
of earned pension under the sending scheme for the previous scheme year, and
applied to the opening balance of club transfer earned on the date that the
order (in respect of the NHS Pension Scheme 2015) made by the Treasury under
section 9(2) of the 2013 Act in relation to the previous scheme year, has
effect.

17.2.b

in the definition of “AP index adjustment”, after “in an order”, insert  “(in
respect of the NHS Pension Scheme 2015)” .

17.3

In paragraph 3 (meaning of “ leaver index adjustment ”)—

17.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in Step 1, after “in an order”, insert  “(in respect of
the NHS Pension Scheme 2015)” ;

17.3.b

for sub-paragraph (2), substitute—

17.3.b.2

Subject to sub-paragraph 2A, the leaver index adjustment for an amount of club
transfer accrued earned pension is—

17.3.b.2.a

equal to the adjustment that would apply under the sending scheme to an amount
of accrued earned pension equal to the amount of club transfer accrued earned
pension specified in the active member’s account at the end of the relevant
last day; and

17.3.b.2.b

applied to the amount of club transfer earned pension at the end of the
relevant last day on the date that the order (in respect of the NHS Pension
Scheme 2015) made by the Treasury under section 9(2) of the 2013 Act in
relation to the previous scheme year, has effect.

.

17.4

In paragraph 4 (meaning of “ leaver AP index adjustment ”), in sub-paragraph
(2)(b), after “in an order”, insert  “(in respect of the NHS Pension Scheme
2015)” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 10

18

In Schedule 10 (practitioner income) , in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (2)
(medical practitioner), under “CASE 1” after “(c) an APMS contract;” insert
“(ca) a primary care network standard sub-contract;” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 15

19

19.1

Schedule 15 (definitions) is amended as follows.

19.2

In the appropriate place, insert the following new expressions:

19.2.a

“primary care network” and for the corresponding entry in Column 2 insert  “a
network of primary medical services contractors and other providers of
services which has been approved by the National Health Service Commissioning
Board, serving an identified geographical area ” ;

19.2.b

“primary care network management company” and for the corresponding entry in
Column 2 insert  “a partnership or incorporated legal entity that is a party
to a primary care network standard sub-contract and under which provides
services to that network that are related to the management of that network” ;
and

19.2.c

“primary care network standard sub-contract” and for the corresponding entry
in Column 2 insert  “a sub-contract that complies with the National Health
Service Commissioning Board’s template sub-contract, “Sub-contract for the
provision of services related to the Network Contract Directed Enhanced
Service 2022/23” ” .

### Amendment of the National Health Service Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations 2015

#### General

20

The National Health Service Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential
Provisions) Regulations 2015  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 37

21

In regulation 37(1) (variations to lump sums for 1995 and 2008 pensioners
joining new scheme) , for “and 7”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“, 7, 9 and 10” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 1

22

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (eligibility of 1995 Section pensioners to join
new scheme) , at the end of the table insert—

      9     a 1995 Section pensioner in receipt of a tier 2 pension under
regulation E2A of the 1995 Regulations—       (a) who returns to NHS
employment and the first anniversary of that return is on or after 1st April
2023; and       (b) whose protection period for the purposes of regulation E2C
of the 1995 Regulations spans 1st April 2023 or begins on or after 1st April
2023.     eligible to be an active member of the new scheme on the day after
the protection period in regulation E2C(6)(b) of the 1995 Regulations ends. 10
a 1995 Section pensioner, other than a tier 2 ill-health pensioner, who does
not fall within one of the Groups above. eligible to be an active member of
the new scheme, or re-join the new scheme, on the first day on or after 1st
April 2023 on which the member is in an employment that would, apart from the
operation of regulation 19(1)(d) of the 2015 Regulations, otherwise be
eligible for membership under those Regulations.

### Modifications of member contribution provisions in the National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015

#### General

23

The National Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015  are modified in
accordance with this Part.

#### Application and expiry of modifications in this Part

24

The modifications in this Part apply only—

24.a

for the purposes of members’ contributions payable under the National Health
Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015 in respect of the scheme year 2022/23;
and

24.b

until the end of 31st March 2025.

#### Modification of regulation 31

25

Regulation 31 (members’ contributions: practitioners and non-GP providers)  is
to be read as if—

25.a

in paragraph (3), for “the scheme year in question” there were substituted
“each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 and for the scheme year
2023/24” ;

25.b

after paragraph (9), there were inserted—

25.b.9A

For the purposes of this regulation, the “ relevant period of the scheme year
2022/23 ” means the period, as applicable—

25.b.9A.a

beginning with 1st April 2022 and ending with 30th September 2022;

25.b.9A.b

beginning with 1st October 2022 and ending with 31st March 2023.

;

25.c

in paragraph (10), at the end, there were inserted “and references to the
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 in regulations 38 and 39 must be
construed in accordance with paragraph (9A)”.

#### Modification of regulation 38

26

Regulation 38 (members’ contributions: supplementary: medical practitioners
and non-GP providers)  is to be read as if—

26.a

in paragraph (2)—

26.a.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “a scheme year” there were
substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

26.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), after “M’s pensionable earnings for” there were inserted
“each relevant period of” .

26.b

after paragraph (2), there were inserted—

26.b.2A

Paragraph (3A) applies if, in respect of the scheme year 2022/23, M—

26.b.2A.a

has certified M’s pensionable earnings in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule
12 and forwarded a record of the earnings to the host Board; or

26.b.2A.b

was not required to certify M’s earnings in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule
12 but the host Board has the figure that represents M’s pensionable earnings
for that year.

;

26.c

in paragraph (3)—

26.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “the scheme year in question” there
were substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

26.c.ii

for sub-paragraph (a), there were substituted—

26.c.ii.a

certified or final pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 uprated according to the formula:

        PE NDRP × 365               where—       PE is the certified or final
amount of M’s pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant
period of the scheme year 2022/23;         NDRP is the number of days of M’s
group D service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23; and

;

26.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (b)—

26.c.iii.aa

after “received” there were inserted  “for each relevant period of the scheme
year 2022/23” ;

26.c.iii.bb

at the end, there were inserted—

      ,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are M’s certified or final
pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period

.

26.d

after paragraph (3), there were inserted—

26.d.3A

If paragraph (3) does not apply to M in respect of the scheme year 2022/23,
M’s contributions payable for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23
are those specified in column 2 of the relevant table in respect of the amount
of pensionable earnings referred to in column 1 of that table which
corresponds to the aggregate of—

26.d.3A.a

the pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of
the scheme year 2022/23 determined by applying the formula:

        PE NDPS × NDRP               where—         PE is the certified or
final amount of M’s pensionable earnings from all group D sources for the
scheme year 2022/23;           NDPS is the number of days of M’s group D
service in the scheme year 2022/23;           NDRP is the number of days of
M’s group D service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23,

and uprated according to the formula:

        PE NDRP × 365               where—         PE is M’s pensionable
earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of the scheme year
2022/23 determined in accordance with this paragraph;           NDRP is the
number of days of M’s group D service in each relevant period of the scheme
year 2022/23; and

26.d.3A.b

any additional pensionable earnings M is treated as having received for each
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 during an absence from work in
accordance with regulation 28,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are determined by applying the
formula:

        PE NDPS × NDRP               where—         PE is the certified or
final amount of M’s pensionable earnings from all group D sources for the
scheme year 2022/23;           NDPS is the number of days of M’s group D
service in the scheme year 2022/23;           NDRP is the number of days of
M’s group D service in each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23.

;

26.e

in paragraph (4), in the words before sub paragraph (a), for “paragraph (3)
does” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A) do” ;

26.f

in paragraph (5)—

26.f.i

for “paragraph (2)(a) or (b) is”, there were substituted  “paragraphs (2)(a)
or (b) or (2A)(a) or (b) are” ;

26.f.ii

after “rate” there were inserted  “or rates” ;

26.f.iii

for “paragraph (3)” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A)” .

#### Modification of regulation 39

27

Regulation 39 (members’ contributions: supplementary: dental practitioners)
is to be read as if—

27.a

in paragraph (2)—

27.a.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “a scheme year” there were
substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

27.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), after “M’s pensionable earnings for” there were inserted
“each relevant period of” .

27.b

after paragraph (2), there were inserted—

27.b.2A

Paragraph (3A) applies if, in respect of the scheme year 2022/23, M—

27.b.2A.a

has reconciled or certified M’s pensionable earnings in accordance with Part 1
of Schedule 12 and forwarded a record of those earnings to the host Board; or

27.b.2A.b

was not required to reconcile or certify M’s earnings in accordance with Part
1 of Schedule 12 but the host Board has the figure that represents M’s
pensionable earnings for the scheme year.

;

27.c

in paragraph (3)—

27.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “the scheme year in question” there
were substituted  “each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23” ;

27.c.ii

for sub-paragraph (a), there were substituted—

27.c.ii.a

reconciled, certified or final pensionable earnings from all group D sources
for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 uprated according to the
formula:

        PE NDRP × 365               where—         PE is the reconciled,
certified or final amount of the dental practitioner’s pensionable earnings
from all group D sources for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23;
NDRP is the number of days of dental practitioner service in each relevant
period of the scheme year 2022/23; and

;

27.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (b)—

27.c.iii.aa

after “received” there were inserted  “for each relevant period of the scheme
year 2022/23” ;

27.c.iii.bb

at the end, there were inserted—

      ,

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are M’s reconciled, certified
or final pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant
period

.

27.d

after paragraph (3), there were inserted—

27.d.3A

If paragraph (3) does not apply to M in respect of the scheme year 2022/23,
M’s contributions payable for each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23
are those specified in column 2 of the relevant table in respect of the amount
of pensionable earnings referred to in column 1 of that table which
corresponds to the aggregate of—

27.d.3A.a

the pensionable earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of
the scheme year 2022/23 determined by applying the formula:

        PE NDPS × NDRP               where—         PE is the reconciled,
certified or final amount of the dental practitioner’s pensionable earnings
from all group D sources for the scheme year 2022/23;           NDRP is the
number of days of dental practitioner service in each relevant period of the
scheme year 2022/23,         NDPS is the number of days of dental practitioner
service in the scheme year 2022/23;

and uprated according to the formula:

        PE NDRP × 365               where—         PE is M’s pensionable
earnings from all group D sources for each relevant period of the scheme year
2022/23 determined in accordance with this paragraph;         NDRP is the
number of days of dental practitioner service in each relevant period of the
scheme year 2022/23; and

27.d.3A.b

any additional pensionable earnings M is treated as having received for each
relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 during an absence from work in
accordance with regulation 28

and the pensionable earnings to which the contribution rate is applied for
each relevant period of the scheme year 2022/23 are determined by applying the
formula:

        PE NDPS × NDRP               where—         PE is the reconciled,
certified or final amount of the dental practitioner’s pensionable earnings
from all group D sources for the scheme year 2022/23;           NDPS is the
number of days of dental practitioner service in the scheme year 2022/23;
NDRP is the number of days of dental practitioner service in each relevant
period of the scheme year 2022/23.

27.e

in paragraph (4), in the words before sub paragraph (a), for “paragraph (3)
does” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A) do” ;

27.f

in paragraph (5)—

27.f.i

for “paragraph (2)(a) or (b) is”, there were substituted  “paragraphs (2)(a)
or (b) or (2A)(a) or (b) are” ;

27.f.ii

after “rate” there were inserted  “or rates” ;

27.f.iii

for “paragraph (3)” there were substituted  “paragraphs (3) or (3A)” .

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care
Will Quince   Minister of State,   Department of Health and Social Care
8th March 2023             We consent       Steve Double   Scott Mann   Two of
the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury     8th March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations further amend the National Health Service Pension Scheme
Regulations 1995 ( S.I. 1995/300 ) (“ the 1995 Regulations ”), the National
Health Service Pension Scheme Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/94 ) (“ the 2015
Regulations ”), and the National Health Service Pension Scheme (Transitional
and Consequential Provisions) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/95 ) (“ the 2015
Transitional Regulations ”) and make temporary modifications of certain member
contributions provisions in the 2015 Regulations.

  These regulations come into force on 1st April 2023.

  Regulations 3, 4, 5 and 6 amend the 1995 Regulations to permanently remove
the ‘16 hour rule’, which requires a member’s pension benefits to be suspended
if they return to NHS employment and commit to more than 16 hours per week
within one month of the pension becoming payable.

  Regulations 9 and 10 amend the 2015 Regulations to update member
contribution provisions to reflect the start of scheme year 2023/24.
Regulation 10 also updates table 1 in regulation 31 (members’ contributions:
practitioners and non-GP providers), which sets out the historic pensionable
earnings bands and contribution rates, to reflect scheme year 2022/23.

  Regulations 14 and 17, amend the 2015 Regulations to ensure that the correct
figure and enforcement date in the annual Treasury order made under section 9
of the Public Service Pensions Act  2013 (c. 25)  are used in respect of the
2015 Regulations, following planned forthcoming amendment of the order.

  Regulations 8, 11, 15, 16, 18 and 19 make provision for scheme access with
regards to practitioners and employees working as part of primary care
networks.

  Regulations 21 and 22 amend the 2015 Transitional Regulations, to allow
certain 1995 Scheme pensioners to join the 2015 Scheme and to receive the
correct lump sum for death in service.

  Part 5 makes temporary modifications to the 2015 Regulations to ensure that
the member contributions reconciliation provisions for medical practitioners,
non-GP providers and dental practitioners for scheme year 2022/23 reflects the
mid-scheme year contribution rate change which came into force on 1st October
2022. These temporary modifications apply until the end of 31st March 2024.

  Regulations 12 and 13 correct pre-existing errors in the 2015 Regulations.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

