Title: The Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023
Date: 2024-11-22
Description: This Order grants development consent for, and authorises the construction, operation and maintenance of an offshore wind farm generating station located in the North Sea 69 kilometres due east of Flamborough Head at its closest point together with associated development. This Order imposes requirements in connection with the development and authorises the compulsory purchase of land (including rights in land) and the right to use land and to override easements and other rights.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/800

## The Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023

Infrastructure Planning

Made 12th July 2023

Coming into force 3rd August 2023

An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37 of the
Planning Act 2008 (“ the 2008 Act ”) , and in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms  and  Procedures)
Regulations 2009  for an order granting development consent. The application
was examined by the Examining Authority, appointed by the Secretary of State
pursuant to section 61  and section 65  of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and carried
out in accordance with Chapter 4 of that Act and with the Infrastructure
Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 . The Examining Authority has
submitted a report to the Secretary of State under section 74(2)  of the 2008
Act. The Secretary of State has considered the report and recommendation of
the Examining Authority, has taken into account the environmental information
in accordance with regulation 4 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental
Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017  and, as a national policy statement has
effect in relation to the proposed development, has had regard to the
documents and matters referred to in section 104(2)  of the 2008 Act. The
Secretary of State, having decided the application, has determined to make an
Order granting development consent for the development described in the
application on terms that in the opinion of the Secretary of State are not
materially different from those proposed in the application. The Secretary of
State is satisfied that open space within the Order land, when burdened with
any new rights authorised for compulsory acquisition under the terms of this
Order, will be no less advantageous than it was before such acquisition, to
the persons in whom it is vested, other persons, if any, entitled to rights of
common or other rights, and the public, and that, accordingly, section 132(3)
of the 2008 Act applies. The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114, 115, 120 , 122, 123,140 and 149A of the 2008 Act,
makes the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023 and
comes into force on 3rd August 2023.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ the 1965 Act ” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act
1980 ; “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ; “ the 1989 Act ” means the Electricity Act 1989 ; “ the 1990 Act ”
means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ the 1991 Act ” means the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ; “ the 2000 Act ” means the Countryside and
Rights of Way Act 2000 ; “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;
“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008 ; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009 ; “ the 2016 Regulations ” means the Environmental Permitting (England
and Wales) Regulations 2016 ; “ access land ” has the same meaning as in
section 1(1) (principal definitions for Part I) of the 2000 Act; “ access to
or from   works plan ” means the plan or plans certified as the access to
works plan or plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ ancillary
works ” means the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary
works) and any other works authorised by this Order and which are not
development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; “ authorised
development ” means the development and associated development described in
Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development
authorised by this Order that is development within the meaning of section 32
of the 2008 Act; “ authorised project ” means the authorised development and
the ancillary works authorised by this Order; “ the book of reference ” means
the document certified by the Secretary of State as the book of reference for
the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and
documents, etc.); “ box-type gravity base structures ” means a structure
principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a square base which
rests on the seabed due to its own weight with or without added ballast or
additional skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ bridge link ” means
a steel truss structure with provision for overhead clearance for personnel,
lighting fixtures and ancillary cabling, which can be used as a link for
interconnection between any combination of permanent offshore electrical
installations and/or offshore accommodation platform; “ buoy ” means any
floating device used for navigational purposes or measurement purposes,
including LIDAR and wave buoys; “ cables ” means cables for the transmission
of electricity, including one or more cable crossings; “ cable circuits ”
means a number of electrical conductors necessary to transmit electricity
between two points within the authorised development; this may comprise,
depending on transmission technology, one or more conductors which may be
bundled as one cable or take the form of separate cables, and the circuit may
include one or more auxiliary cables (normally fibre optic cables) for the
purpose of control, monitoring, protection or general communications; “ cable
crossings ” means a crossing of existing sub-sea cables or pipelines or other
existing infrastructure by a cable or, where cables run together in parallel,
a set of cables, authorised by this Order together with cable protection; “
cable protection ” means physical measures for the protection of cables
including but not limited to concrete mattresses, split pipe system, and/or
rock placement (including material used for cable crossings); “ carriageway ”
has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “commence”, means— in relation to
works seaward of MHWS, the first carrying out of any licensed marine
activities authorised by the deemed marine licences, save for operations
consisting of pre-construction surveys and monitoring approved under the
deemed marine licences; or in respect of any other works comprised in the
authorised project, the first carrying out of any material operation (as
defined in section 155 of the 2008 Act) forming part of the authorised project
other than onshore site preparation works, and the words “commencement” and “
commenced ” must be construed accordingly; “ commissioning ” means the process
of assuring that all systems and components of the authorised development are
tested to verify that they function and are operable in accordance with the
design objectives, specifications and operational requirements of the
undertaker; “ commitments register ” means the document certified as the
commitments register by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ connection
works ” means Work Nos. 6 to 10 and any related further associated development
in connection with those works; “ deemed marine licences ” means the marine
licences set out in Schedules 11 (deemed marine licence under the 2009 Act –
generation assets) and 12 (deemed marine licence under the 2009 Act –
transmission assets); “ the Driffield Navigation Trust ” means the Driffield
Navigation Trust of 5 New Walk Close, Driffield, East Yorkshire, England, YO25
5LG (Company No. 01468822); “ energy balancing infrastructure ” means
infrastructure used for the balancing of the output of electrical energy to
the national grid; “ environmental statement ” means the document certified as
the environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
gravity base structure ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or
steel and concrete with a base which tapers as it rises which rests on the
seabed due to its own weight with or without added ballast or additional
skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection
systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ HAT ” means highest
astronomical tide; “ highway ” and “ highway authority ” have the same meaning
as in the 1980 Act ; “ Historic England ” means the Historic Buildings and
Monuments Commission for England; “ horizontal directional drilling ” means a
trenchless boring technique for installing cables, cable ducts and other
associated apparatus involving drilling in an arc between two points; “ HVAC ”
means high voltage alternating current; “ HVDC ” means high voltage direct
current; “ independent design review panel ” means a panel consisting of one
chairperson and up to five members of which at least one member must be a
chartered architect and one a chartered landscape professional. The remainder
of the panel may be made up of external experts on architecture, landscaping,
urban design, engineering or any other built environment profession. The
members of the panel to be appointed by the undertaker following approval by
the relevant planning authority; “ interconnector cable ” means a network of
cables between the offshore substations; “ intrusive environmental surveys ”
means an environmental survey that requires or is facilitated by breaking the
surface of the ground or seabed; “ jacket foundation ” means a lattice type
structure constructed of steel and additional equipment such as, J-tubes,
corrosion protection systems and access platforms attached to the sea bed by
means of either a suction bucket or piles; “ joint bay ” means an excavation
located at regular intervals along the cable route consisting of a concrete
flat base slab constructed beneath the ground to facilitate the jointing
together of the cables; “ land plans ” means the plan or plans certified as
the land plan or plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ large
offshore HVDC converter substation ” means the large version of the offshore
converter substations assessed in the environment statement; “ large offshore
transformer substation ” means the large version of the offshore transformer
substations assessed in the environment statement; “ LAT ” means lowest
astronomical tide; “ lead local flood authority ” has the meaning in section
6(7) of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 ; “ link box ” means the
underground metal box placed within a plastic or concrete pit where the metal
sheaths between adjacent export cable sections are connected and earthed
installed within a ground level manhole or inspection chamber to allow access
to the link box for regular maintenance or fault-finding purposes; “ logistics
compound ” means a construction site associated with the connection works
including portable offices, welfare facilities, parking and storage for
construction of the authorised project; “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep,
repair, adjust, and alter and further includes remove, reconstruct and replace
(but only in relation to any of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1
(ancillary works)), any cable, any component part of any wind turbine
generator, offshore electrical substation, offshore accommodation platform,
meteorological mast, and the onshore transmission works described in Part 1 of
Schedule 1 (authorised development) not including  the   removal,
reconstruction or replacement of foundations and buildings associated with the
onshore project substation  ,  to the extent assessed in the environmental
statement and any derivative of maintain must be construed accordingly;
“Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the Marine Management
Organisation, Lancaster House, Hampshire Court, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE4 7YH
who is the body created under the 2009 Act and who is responsible for the
monitoring and enforcement of the deemed marine licences; “mean high water
springs” or “ MHWS ” means the highest level which spring tides reach on
average over a period of time; “mean low water springs” or “ MLWS ” means the
lowest level which spring tides reach on average over a period of time; “
monopile foundation ” means a steel pile, driven and/or drilled into the
seabed and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection
systems and access platforms and equipment; “ mono suction bucket foundation ”
means a steel cylindrical structure which partially or fully penetrates the
seabed and remains in place using its own weight and hydrostatic pressure
differential, and may include additional equipment such as J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platforms; “ offshore accommodation platform ”
means a structure above LAT and attached to the seabed by means of a
foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter platform (including bird
deterrents), containing housing accommodation, storage, workshop, auxiliary
equipment, and facilities for operating, maintaining and controlling the wind
turbine generators and offshore electrical installations; “ offshore
electrical installations ” means the small offshore transformer substations,
the large offshore transformer substations, the offshore HVAC booster
stations, the small offshore HVDC converter substations and the large offshore
HVDC converter substations forming part of the authorised development; “
offshore HVAC booster station ” means a structure above LAT and attached to
the seabed by means of a foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter
platform (including bird deterrents), containing— electrical equipment
required to provide reactive power compensation; and housing accommodation,
storage, workshop, auxiliary equipment, radar and facilities for operating,
maintaining and controlling the substation; “ offshore HVDC converter station
” means a structure above LAT and attached to the seabed by means of a
foundation, with equipment to convert the three-phase HVAC power generated at
the wind turbine generators into HVDC power; “ the offshore Order limits and
grid coordinates plan ” means the plan or plans certified by the Secretary of
State as the offshore Order limits and grid coordinates plan for the purposes
of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
offshore transformer substation ” means a structure above LAT and attached to
the seabed by means of a foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter
platform (including bird deterrents), containing— electrical equipment
required to switch, transform, convert electricity generated at the wind
turbine generators to a higher voltage and provide reactive power
compensation; and housing accommodation, storage, workshop  ,  auxiliary
equipment, radar and facilities for operating, maintaining and controlling the
substation or wind turbine generators; “ offshore works ” means Work Nos. 1,
2, 3, 4 and 5 and any related further associated development in connection
with those works; “ offshore works plans ” means the plan or plans certified
as the offshore works plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ onshore
construction works ” means— temporary haul roads; vehicular accesses; and
logistics compound(s); “ onshore HVDC/HVAC substation ” means a compound,
comprising the onshore HVDC converter station or the onshore HVAC substation,
including any energy balancing infrastructure and electrical equipment
required to switch, transform, convert electricity and provide reactive power
compensation, with external landscaping and means of access; “ onshore Order
limits plan ” means the plans certified by the Secretary of State as the
onshore Order limits plan for the purposes of this Order under article 38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ onshore site preparation works
” means operations consisting of site clearance, pre-planting of landscaping
works, ecological mitigation works, archaeological investigations, intrusive
environmental surveys, investigations for the purpose of assessing ground
conditions, remedial work in respect of any contamination or other adverse
ground conditions, diversion and laying of services, erection of any temporary
means of enclosure, creation of site accesses and the temporary display of
site notices or advertisements; “ onshore works plans ” means the plan or
plans certified as the onshore works plans by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ the Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is
within the limits of land to be acquired or used and described in the book of
reference; “ the Order limits ” means the limits shown on the offshore Order
limits and grid coordinates plan and the onshore Order limits plan within
which the authorised project may be carried out, whose grid coordinates
seaward of MHWS are set out in paragraph 2 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised
development) to this Order; “ outline cable specification and installation
plan ” means the document certified as the outline cable specification and
installation plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline code
of construction practice ” means the document certified as the outline code of
construction practice by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline
construction traffic management plan ” means Appendix F of the document
certified as the outline code of construction practice plan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of
plans and documents, etc.); “ outline design plan ” means the document
certified as the outline design plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ outline ecological management plan ” means the document certified as
the outline ecological management plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ outline employment and skills plan ” means the document certified as
the outline employment and skills plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ outline energy balancing infrastructure HazID report ” means the
document certified as the outline energy balancing infrastructure HazID report
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline enhancement strategy ”
means the document certified as the outline enhancement strategy by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline landscape management
plan ” means the document certified as the outline landscape management plan
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline marine mammal
mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the outline marine
mammal mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline
marine monitoring plan ” means the document certified as the outline marine
monitoring plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under
article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline marine
written scheme of investigation ” means the document certified as the outline
marine written scheme of investigation by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ outline net gain strategy ” means the document certified as the
outline net gain strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline
onshore infrastructure drainage strategy ” means the document certified as the
outline onshore infrastructure drainage strategy by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and
documents, etc.); “ outline southern north sea special area of conservation
site integrity plan ” means the document certified as the outline southern
north sea special area of conservation site integrity plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans
and documents, etc.); “ outline written scheme of investigation for onshore
archaeology ” means the document certified as the outline written scheme of
investigation for onshore archaeology by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ pin piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into
the seabed to secure jacket foundations; “ pontoon gravity base type 1
structure ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and
concrete with a base made up of up to two rectangular pontoons which rests on
the seabed due to its own weight with or without added ballast or additional
skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection
systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ pontoon gravity base type 2
structure ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and
concrete with a base made up of a pontoon arranged in a rectangle around an
open centre which rests on the seabed due to its own weight with or without
added ballast or additional skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes,
corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “pro–rata
annex” means the document certified as the pro–rata annex by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans
and documents, etc.); “ public rights of way plan ” means the plan or plans
certified as the public rights of way plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.); “ relevant highway authority ” means East Riding of Yorkshire Council,
or any successor to it as highway authority for the land in question; “
relevant highway authorities ” means East Riding of Yorkshire Council and Hull
City Council, or any successor to them as highway authorities for the land in
question; “ relevant planning authority ” means East Riding of Yorkshire
Council, or any successor to it as planning authority for the land in
question; “ requirements ” means, or a reference to a numbered requirement is
a reference to, those matters set out in Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements)
to this Order; “ scour protection ” means measures to prevent loss of seabed
sediment around any structure placed in or on the seabed by use of protective
aprons, mattresses, or rock and gravel placement; “ section 106 agreements ”
means the three agreements made under section 106 of the 1990 Act— dated 15
November 1990 between (1) The Council of the East Yorkshire Borough of
Beverley; (2) Clive Kingston Soames, Margaret Eileen Soames and Andrew Mark
Soames and (3) Barclays Bank PLC; dated 13 July 2007, between (1) Lissett
Airfield Wind Farm Limited; (2) James Herbert Tennant; and (3) East Riding of
Yorkshire Council; and dated 7 October 2015, between (1) East Riding of
Yorkshire Council; (2) Christopher Branston Foster; (3) Susan Verena Foster;
(4) Richard Edward Foster; and (5) National Westminster Bank PLC; “ small
offshore HVDC converter substation ” means the small version of the offshore
transformer substations assessed in the environment statement; “ small
offshore transformer substation ” means the small version of the offshore
transformer substations assessed in the environment statement; “ SNCB ” means
a statutory nature conservation body, being the appropriate nature
conservation body as defined in regulation 5 of the Conservation of Habitats
and Species Regulations 2017  or its equivalent in the Conservation of
Offshore Marine Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ special category
land ” means the land comprising plots 1, 2, 2A, 3, 3A, 4, 4A, 5, 6 and 6A
shown on the land plans and described in the book of reference; “ statutory
undertaker ” means any person falling within section 127(8) of the 2008 Act
and a public communications provider as defined in section 151 of the 2003
Act; “ street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991
Act , together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways,
and includes any footpath and any part of a street; “ street authority ”, in
relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act ; “
streets plan ” means the plan or plans certified as the streets plan or plans
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ suction bucket ” means a steel
cylindrical structure attached to the legs of a jacket foundation which
partially or fully penetrates the seabed and remains in place using its own
weight and hydrostatic pressure differential; “ transition joint bay ” means
the underground concrete bays in Work No. 6 where the offshore export cable
circuits comprised in Work No. 6 are jointed to the onshore export cable
circuits; “ transition piece ” means the metal structure attached to the top
of the foundation where the base of the wind turbine generator is connected
and may include additional equipment such as J-tubes, corrosion protection
systems, boat access systems, access platforms, craneage, radar, electrical
transmission equipment and associated equipment; “ tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan ” means the plan or plans certified as the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan or plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
undertaker ” means, subject to article 5 (benefit of the Order), Orsted
Hornsea Project Four Limited (company number 08584182); “ vessel ” means every
description of vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes a non-
displacement craft, a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the
water, a hydrofoil vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and
any other thing constructed or adapted for movement through, in, on or over
water and which is at the time in, on or over water; “ water attenuation
feature ” means an area within which sustainable drainage systems measures are
to be adopted to facilitate attenuation and/or storage of surface water
drainage; “ wind turbine generator ” means a structure comprising a tower,
rotor with three blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary electrical
and other equipment which may include J-tube(s), transition piece, access and
rest platforms, access ladders, boat access systems, corrosion protection
systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, helicopter landing facilities and
other associated equipment, fixed to a foundation or transition piece; and “
working day ” means a day which is not a weekend, bank holiday or public
holiday in England.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or restrain or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in
the air-space above its surface and to any trusts or incidents (including
restrictive covenants) to which the land is subject and references in this
Order to the imposition of restrictive covenants are references to the
creation of rights over the land which interfere with the interests or rights
of another and are for the benefit of land which is acquired under this Order
or which is an interest otherwise comprised in the Order land.

2.3

All distances, directions, capacities, volumes and lengths referred to in this
Order are approximate save in respect of the parameters referred to in—

2.3.a

requirements 2 to 5 in Part 3 of Schedule 1   (requirements)  ;

2.3.b

conditions 1 to 3 in Part 2 of Schedule 11 (conditions); and

2.3.c

conditions 1 to 3 in Part 2 of Schedule 12 (conditions).

2.4

Any reference in this Order to a work identified by the number of the work is
to be construed as a reference to the work of that number authorised by this
Order.

2.5

The expression “ includes ” is to be construed without limitation unless the
contrary intention appears.

2.6

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re–enactment.

2.7

Any reference in this Order or the documents certified by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans
and documents, etc.) to a dimension measured from LAT may be converted to a
measurement from HAT by subtracting 4.71m from the measurement from LAT.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by this Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements, the
undertaker is granted—

3.1.a

development consent for the authorised development; and

3.1.b

consent for the ancillary works,

to be carried out within the Order limits.

3.2

Work Nos. 1 to 5 (save for those elements of Work No. 5(a) located landward of
MHWS in order to connect to Work No. 6) must be constructed within the Order
limits seaward of MHWS and Work Nos. 6 to 10 (save for those elements of Work
Nos. 9(a) and 9(d) located seaward of MHWS for foreshore access) must be
constructed within the Order limits landward of MHWS.

#### Power to maintain the authorised project

4

4.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised project, except to the
extent that this Order or an agreement made under this Order provides
otherwise.

4.2

The power to maintain conferred under paragraph (1) does not relieve the
undertaker of any requirement to obtain any further licence under Part 4 of
the 2009 Act (marine licensing) for offshore works not covered by the deemed
marine licences.

#### Benefit of the Order

5

5.1

Subject to this article, the provisions of this Order have effect solely for
the benefit of the undertaker.

5.2

Subject to paragraph (5) the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

5.2.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order (excluding the deemed marine licences referred to
in paragraph (3) below) and such related statutory rights as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the transferee; and

5.2.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order (excluding the deemed marine licences referred to in paragraph (3)
below) and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

except where paragraph (8) applies, in which case the consent of the Secretary
of State is not required.

5.3

Subject to paragraphs (5) and (6) the undertaker may with the written consent
of the Secretary of State–

5.3.a

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), transfer
to the transferee the whole of any of the deemed marine licences and such
related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
transferee; or

5.3.b

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)(b), grant to
the lessee for the duration of the period mentioned in paragraph (2)(b), the
whole of any of the deemed marine licences and such related statutory rights
as may be so agreed.

5.4

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph   (2)   or (3) ,
references in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraphs (7), (9),
(12) and the first reference in paragraph (13) include references to the
transferee or lessee.

5.5

The undertaker must consult the Secretary of State before making an
application for consent under this article by giving notice in writing of the
proposed application.

5.6

The Secretary of State must consult the MMO before giving consent to the
transfer or grant to another person of the benefit of the provisions of the
deemed marine licences.

5.7

Where the undertaker has transferred any benefit, or for the duration of any
period during which the undertaker has granted any benefit, under paragraphs
(2)   or (3)—

5.7.a

the benefit transferred or granted (“the transferred benefit”) includes any
rights that are conferred, and any obligations that are imposed, by virtue of
the provisions to which the benefit relates;

5.7.b

the transferred benefit resides exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit is not enforceable against
the undertaker save in the case of a deemed marine licence transferred or
granted in respect of any breach of an obligation by the undertaker which
occurs prior to such transfer or grant or which occurs as a result of any
activity carried out by the undertaker on behalf of the transferee; and

5.7.c

the exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph   (2)   or (3) is subject to the
same restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order
if those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

5.8

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for the exercise of powers
under paragraphs (2) or (3) except where—

5.8.a

the transferee or lessee is the holder of a licence under section 6 (licences
authorising supply, etc) of the 1989 Act; or

5.8.b

the time limits for claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of
land or effects upon land under this Order have elapsed and—

5.8.b.i

no such claims have been made,

5.8.b.ii

any such claim has been made and has been compromised or withdrawn,

5.8.b.iii

compensation has been paid in final settlement of any such claim,

5.8.b.iv

payment of compensation into court has taken place in lieu of settlement of
any such claim, or

5.8.b.v

it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in
respect of any such claim that no compensation is payable.

5.9

Prior to any transfer or grant under this article taking effect, whether or
not the consent of the Secretary of State is required, the undertaker must
give notice in writing to the Secretary of State, and if such transfer or
grant relates to the exercise of powers in their area, to the MMO and the
relevant planning authority.

5.10

The notice required under paragraphs (5) and (9) must—

5.10.a

state—

5.10.a.i

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the
provisions will be transferred or granted;

5.10.a.ii

subject to paragraph  (11) , the date on which the transfer will take effect;

5.10.a.iii

the provisions to be transferred or granted; and

5.10.a.iv

the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that, in accordance with
paragraph (7)(c), will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred
or granted; and

5.10.a.v

where paragraph (8) does not apply, confirmation of the availability and
adequacy of funds for compensation associated with the compulsory acquisition
of the Order land.

5.10.b

be accompanied by—

5.10.b.i

where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or
grant relates; and

5.10.b.ii

a copy of the document effecting the transfer or grant signed by the
undertaker and the person to whom the benefit of the powers will be
transferred or granted.

5.11

The date specified under paragraph (10)(a)(ii) in respect of a notice served
in respect of paragraph (9) must not be earlier than the expiry of fourteen
days from the date of the receipt of the notice.

5.12

The notice given under paragraph (9) must be signed by the undertaker and the
person to whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as
specified in that notice.

5.13

Sections 72(7) and (8) of the 2009 Act (variation, suspension, revocation and
transfer) do not apply to a transfer or grant of the whole of the benefit of
the provisions of the deemed marine licences to another person by the
undertaker pursuant to an agreement under paragraph (3) save that the MMO may
amend any deemed marine licence granted under Schedule 11 or Schedule 12 of
the Order to correct the name of the undertaker to the name of a transferee or
lessee under this article 5 (benefit of the Order).

#### Application and modification of legislative provisions

6

6.1

The following provisions are modified to the extent specified, or do not
apply, in relation to the construction or works carried out for the purpose
of, or in connection with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised
project—

6.1.a

Regulation 6 of the Hedgerows Regulations 1997  is modified so as to read for
the purposes of this Order only as if there were inserted after paragraph
(1)(j) the following—

or

6.1.a.k

for carrying out development which has been authorised by an order granting
development consent pursuant to the Planning Act 2008.

.

6.1.b

the provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 28 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised project) and 29 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised project) of this Order.

6.1.c

the 2016 Regulations, to the extent that they require a permit for anything
that would have required consent made under section 109 of the Water Resources
Act 1991  immediately before the repeal of that section or for any activities
defined under the 2016 Regulations as flood risk activities;

6.1.d

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraphs 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 of the Water Resources Act 1991 that
require consent or approval for the carrying out of works;

6.1.e

section 23 of the Land Drainage Act 1991  (prohibition of obstructions etc. in
watercourses); and

6.1.f

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66 of the Land Drainage Act
1991 (powers to make byelaws) that require consent or approval for the
carrying out of works.

6.2

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12(1)(b) (requirement for environmental permit) of the 2016
Regulations.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

7

7.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental
Protection Act 1990  (summary proceedings by persons aggrieved by statutory
nuisances) in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section
79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to
health or a nuisance) no order is to be made, and no fine is to be imposed,
under section 82(2) of that Act if—

7.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

7.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised project and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out
of the authorised project in accordance with a notice served under section 60
(control of noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61
(prior consent for work on construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act
1974 ; or

7.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised project and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

7.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

7.1.b.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is
attributable to the use of the authorised project which is being used in
compliance with requirement 22 (control of noise during  ... operational
phase); or

7.1.b.ii

is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot
reasonably be avoided.

7.2

Section 61(9) of the control of Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the
consent relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for purposes of or in
connection with the construction, maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised project.

### STREETS

#### Street works

8

8.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so
much of any of the streets specified in Schedule 2 (streets subject to street
works) as is within the Order limits and may—

8.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel within or under it;

8.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

8.1.c

place and keep apparatus in the street;

8.1.d

maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and

8.1.e

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (d).

8.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

8.3

In this article “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works
in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

#### Application of the 1991 Act

9

9.1

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (2) that apply in
relation to the carrying out of street works under that Act and any
regulations made or code of practice issued or approved under those provisions
apply (with all necessary modifications) in relation to—

9.1.a

the carrying out of works under article 8 (street works); and

9.1.b

the temporary closure, temporary alteration or temporary diversion of a street
by the undertaker under article 10   (temporary closure and restriction of
streets and public rights of way) ,

whether or not the carrying out of the works or the closure, alteration or
diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

9.2

The provisions of the 1991 Act  are—

9.2.a

subject to paragraph (3), section 55 (notice of starting date of works);

9.2.b

section 57 (notice of emergency works);

9.2.c

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

9.2.d

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

9.2.e

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

9.2.f

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation);

9.2.g

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route); and

9.2.h

all provisions of that Act that apply for the purposes of the provisions
referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) to (g).

9.3

Section 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (2) has effect as if
references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works included a reference
to a closure, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a case
of emergency.

#### Temporary closure and restriction of streets and public rights of way

10

10.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
project, may temporarily close, alter or divert any street or public right of
way and may for any reasonable time—

10.1.a

divert the traffic or a class of traffic from the street or public right of
way; and

10.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street or
public right of way.

10.2

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may for the purposes of
carrying out the authorised project use any street or public right of way
temporarily closed or restricted under the powers conferred by this article
and within the Order limits as a temporary working site.

10.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street or public right of way affected by the temporary
closure, alteration or diversion of a street or public right of way under this
article if there would otherwise be no such access.

10.4

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may temporarily   close , alter
or divert the streets set out in   column (1)   of Schedule 3 (streets to be
temporarily closed or restricted) to the extent specified, by reference to the
letters and numbers shown on the streets plans, in column (2) of that
Schedule.

10.5

The undertaker must not temporarily close, alter, divert or use as a temporary
working site—

10.5.a

any street referred to in paragraph (4) without first consulting the street
authority; and

10.5.b

any other street or public right of way without the consent of the street
authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to the consent.

10.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

10.7

If a street authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 56
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (5)(b) that
street authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Closure and diversion of public rights of way and access land

11

11.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
project—

11.1.a

temporarily close each of the public rights of way specified in column (1) of
Part 1 of Schedule 4 (public rights of way to be closed or diverted and access
land) to the extent specified in column (2), by reference to the numbers and
letters shown on the public rights of way plan;

11.1.b

permanently divert each of the public rights of way specified in column (1) of
Part 2 Schedule 4 (public rights of way to be closed or diverted and access
land) to the extent specified, in column (2) of that Schedule;

11.1.c

provide the substitute public rights of way to those diverted as described in
column (3) of Part 2 of Schedule 4 (public rights of way to be closed or
diverted and access land) between the specified terminus points;

11.1.d

temporarily divert each of the public rights of way specified in column (1) of
Part 3   of  Schedule 4 (public rights of way to be closed or diverted and
access land) to the extent specified, in column (2) of that Schedule;

11.1.e

provide the substitute public rights of way to those temporarily diverted for
the duration of that diversion as described in column (3) of Part 3 of
Schedule 4 (public rights of way to be closed or diverted and access land)
between the specified terminus points; and

11.1.f

temporarily close, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of the access land
specified in column (1) of Part 4 of Schedule 4 (public rights of way to be
closed or diverted and access land) to the extent specified in column (2), by
reference to the area shown on the public rights of way plan.

11.2

The rights of access conferred by section 2 of the 2000 Act (rights of the
public in relation to access land) are suspended in relation to any access
land specified in column (1) of Part 4 of Schedule 4 (public rights of way to
be closed or diverted and access land) to the extent specified in column (2),
by reference to the area shown on the public rights of way plan.

11.3

The period of suspension under paragraph (2) lasts for the period of the
temporary closure.

#### Access to works

12

12.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project—

12.1.a

form, lay out and maintain a means of access, or improve or maintain an
existing means of access, in the locations specified in columns (1) and (2) of
Schedule 5 (access to works); and

12.1.b

with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with
the highway authority in accordance with requirement 11 (highway accesses),
form and lay out such other means of access or improve existing means of
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably
requires for the purposes of the authorised project.

12.2

If the relevant planning authority fails to notify the undertaker of its
decision within 56 days of receiving an application for approval under
paragraph (1)(b) that relevant planning authority is deemed to have granted
approval.

#### Agreements with street authorities

13

13.1

A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect
to—

13.1.a

any temporary closure, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by this
Order; or

13.1.b

the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 8(1)
(street works).

13.2

Such agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)—

13.2.a

make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this
Order which relates to the street in question;

13.2.b

include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a
reasonable time for the completion of the works; and

13.2.c

contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider
appropriate.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

14

14.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the undertaker may, in so far as may be
expedient or necessary for the purposes of or in connection with constructing,
operating and maintaining the authorised development alter the layout of any
street and, without limitation on the scope of this paragraph, the undertaker
may—

14.1.a

alter the level or increase the width of the street including any kerb,
footway, cycle track or verge; and

14.1.b

make and maintain passing place(s).

14.2

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this article to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

14.3

The powers conferred by paragraph (1) must not be exercised without the
consent of the street authority.

14.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply where the undertaker is the street
authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

15

15.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) below, the undertaker may use any
watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in
connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project and
for that purpose may inspect, lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on
any land within the Order limits, make openings into, and connections with,
the watercourse, public sewer or drain.

15.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) is determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991  (right to
communicate with public sewers).

15.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse or  any
public sewer   or  drain, except with the consent of the person to whom it
belongs; and such consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as
that person may reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

15.4

The undertaker must not carry out any works to any public sewer or drain
pursuant to article 15(1) except—

15.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

15.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

15.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this
article damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming
part of a main river as defined under section 113(1) of the Water Resources
Act 1991.

15.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

15.7

This article does not authorise any water discharge or groundwater activity
for which an environmental permit is required by regulation 12 (requirement
for an environmental permit) of the 2016 Regulations.

15.8

In this article—

15.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which either belongs to a
sewerage undertaker, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board or a
local authority or one which such body has permissive rights over; and

15.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
2016 Regulations have the same meaning as in those Regulations.

15.9

If a person who receives an application for consent or approval fails to
notify the undertaker of a decision within 56 days of receiving an application
for consent under paragraph  (3)  or approval under paragraph (4)(a) that
person is deemed to have granted consent or given approval, as the case may
be.

#### Protective work to buildings

16

16.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the
Order limits as the undertaker considers necessary or expedient.

16.2

Protective works may be carried out—

16.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out of any part of the authorised
project in the vicinity of the building; or

16.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised project in the vicinity of
the building at any time up to the end of the period of five years beginning
with the day on which that part of the authorised project is commissioned.

16.3

For the purpose of determining how the powers under this article are to be
exercised, the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage.

16.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building, the undertaker may (subject to   paragraph (5)   and (6))—

16.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

16.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land that is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

16.5

Before exercising—

16.5.a

a power under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

16.5.b

a power under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

16.5.c

a power under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

16.5.d

a power under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise the power and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

16.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question of whether it is necessary or expedient to carry
out the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 39 (arbitration).

16.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which powers under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of the powers.

16.8

Where—

16.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

16.8.b

within the period of five years beginning with the day on which the part of
the authorised project carried out in the vicinity of the building is
commissioned it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised project,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

16.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no
right to claim in nuisance).

16.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) must be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of
disputed compensation).

16.11

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto, or possession of land under this article to the
same extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this
Order by virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act.

16.12

In this article “ protective works ”, in relation to a building, means—

16.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage that may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised project; and

16.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage that has been caused to
the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
project.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land onshore

17

17.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or any land which may be affected by the authorised
project and—

17.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

17.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes or
bore holes in such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to
investigate the nature of the surface layer, subsoil and groundwater and
remove soil and groundwater samples;

17.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land, including the digging of
trenches; and

17.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes, bore
holes or trenches.

17.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph  (1)  unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

17.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

17.3.a

must, if so required on entering the land, produce written evidence of their
authority to do so; and

17.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes, bore holes or
trenches.

17.4

No trial holes, bore holes or trenches may be made under this article—

17.4.a

in land forming a railway without the consent of Network Rail ;

17.4.b

in land held by or in right of the Crown without the consent of the Crown;

17.4.c

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

17.4.d

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

17.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

17.6

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
56 days of receiving the application for consent—

17.6.a

under paragraph (4)(c) in the case of a highway authority; or

17.6.b

under paragraph (4)(d) in the case of a street authority;

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

17.7

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto, or possession of land under this article to the
same extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this
Order by virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

18

18.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised project, or to facilitate it, or as is incidental
to it.

18.2

This article is subject to article 20 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily), article 21(2) (compulsory acquisition of rights
etc.), article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only), article 27 (rights under or
over streets), article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the
authorised project) article 43 (crown rights) and Schedule 9 (protective
provisions).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land: minerals

19

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 are
incorporated in this Order, subject to the following modifications—

19.a

for “acquiring authority” substitute  “undertaker” ; and

19.b

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised project” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

20

20.1

After the end of the period of seven years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

20.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (compulsory purchase under the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981) of the 1965 Act; and

20.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 23 (application of the 1981 Act).

20.2

The authority conferred by article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised project) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was
entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights etc.

21

21.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may acquire compulsorily such rights
over the Order land or impose such restrictive covenants affecting the Order
land as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired
under article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as
by acquiring rights already in existence.

21.2

Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, article 22 (private rights) and
article 30 (statutory undertakers), in the case of the Order land specified in
column (1) of Schedule 6 (land in which only new rights etc. may be acquired)
the undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition are limited to the
acquisition of existing rights over land and the creation and acquisition of
the new rights and the imposition of restrictive covenants for the purpose
specified in relation to that land in column (2) of that Schedule.

21.3

Subject to section 8 (other provisions as to divided land) of the 1965 Act,
and Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat) as substituted by paragraph 10 of Schedule 7 (modification of
compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights),
where the undertaker creates a new interest or acquires an existing right over
land or imposes a restrictive covenant under paragraph (1) or (2), the
undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that land.

21.4

Schedule 7 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for creation of new rights) has effect for the purpose of modifying the
enactments relating to compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in
their application in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article
of a right over land by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant.

21.5

In any case where the acquisition of new rights or imposition of a restriction
under paragraph (1) or (2) is required for the purpose of diverting, replacing
or protecting apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the undertaker may, with
the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power to acquire such
rights and impose such restrictions to the statutory undertaker in question.

21.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were exercised
by the undertaker.

21.7

Subject to the modifications set out in Schedule 7 the enactments for the time
being in force with respect to compensation for the compulsory purchase of
land are to apply in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this Order in
respect of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a
restriction as they apply to the compulsory purchase of land and interests in
land.

21.8

Subject to article 43  (crown rights) , so much of the special category land
as is required for the purposes of exercising the powers acquired by the
undertaker pursuant to this article is discharged from all rights, trusts and
incidents to which it was previously subject, so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the exercise of those rights.

#### Private Rights

22

22.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights and restrictions
over land subject to compulsory acquisition under   this Order   are
extinguished—

22.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land, or of the right, or of the
benefit of the restriction by the undertaker, whether compulsorily, by
agreement or through the grant of a lease of the land by agreement; or

22.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (power of entry),

whichever is the earliest.

22.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights and restrictions
over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictions under this Order are suspended and unenforceable or, where so
notified by the undertaker, extinguished in so far as their continuance would
be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or compliance with the
restriction—

22.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the
restriction by the undertaker (whether the right is acquired compulsorily, by
agreement or through the grant of a lease of the land by agreement); or

22.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (powers of entry) in pursuance of the right,

whichever is the earliest.

22.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictions
over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order
are suspended and unenforceable, in so far as their continuance would be
inconsistent with the purpose for which temporary possession is taken, for as
long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land.

22.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over any part of
the Order land that is owned by, vested in or acquired by the undertaker are
extinguished on commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which
interferes with or breaches those rights and where the undertaker gives notice
of such extinguishment.

22.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restriction under this article is entitled to compensation in
accordance with the terms of section 152 of the 2008 Act, to be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of
disputed compensation).

22.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138 of
the 2008 Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory
undertakers etc.) or article 30 (statutory undertakers) applies.

22.7

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect subject to—

22.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

22.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights or
the imposition of restrictions over or affecting the land;

22.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of the land;

22.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto the land; or

22.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of the land,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right or restriction
specified in the notice; or

22.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right or restriction in question is vested, belongs or benefits.

22.8

If an agreement referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

22.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right or restriction is vested,
belongs or benefits; and

22.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

the agreement is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title,
whether the title was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

22.9

Reference in this article to private rights over land includes any right of
way, trust, incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed
to land and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to
support and include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a
contract, agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

23

23.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

23.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

23.3

In section 1 (application of act), for subsection (2) substitute—

23.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

23.4

In section 5(2) (earliest date for execution of declaration) omit the words
from “and this subsection” to the end.

23.5

Section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) is omitted .

23.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)  for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118 of the 2008 Act (legal challenges relating to
applications for orders granting development consent) the seven year period
mentioned in article 20 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023” .

23.7

In section 6 (notices after execution of declaration), in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

23.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), omit the
words “(as modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

23.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) , for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

23.9.2

But see article 25(1) (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Hornsea Four
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023, which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only
from this Schedule.

.

23.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act must be construed as references to
the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act as modified by article 26 (modification of Part 1
of the 1965 Act) to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order.

#### Statutory authority to override easements and other rights

24

24.1

The carrying out or use of the authorised development and the doing of
anything else authorised by this Order is authorised for the purpose specified
in section 158(2) (nuisance: statutory authority) of the 2008 Act,
notwithstanding that it involves—

24.1.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

24.1.b

a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract.

24.2

The undertaker must pay compensation to any person whose land is injuriously
affected by—

24.2.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

24.2.b

a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract,

authorised by virtue of this Order and the operation of section 158 (nuisance:
statutory authority) of the 2008 Act.

24.3

The interests and rights to which this article applies are any easement,
liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting
other land, including any natural right to support and any restrictions as to
the use of land arising by virtue of a contract.

24.4

Subsection (2) of section 10 (further provision as to compensation for
injurious affection) of the 1965 Act applies to paragraph (2) by virtue of
section 152(5) of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance).

24.5

Any rule or principle applied to the construction of section 10 of the 1965
Act must be applied to the construction of paragraph (2) (with any necessary
modifications).

#### Acquisition of subsoil only

25

25.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 18 (compulsory
acquisition of land etc.) or article 21 (compulsory acquisition of rights
...) as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired
under that provision instead of acquiring the whole of the land.

25.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land
under paragraph (1), the undertaker is not required to acquire an interest in
any other part of the land.

25.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil only—

25.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act as modified by Schedule 7 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights);

25.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

25.3.c

Section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

25.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply where the undertaker acquires a cellar,
vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
factory.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

26

26.1

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

26.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge) —

26.2.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute,  “section 118 of the
2008 Act (legal challenges relating to applications for orders granting
development consent)” ; and

26.2.b

for “the three year period specified in section 4” substitute  “the seven year
period mentioned in article 20 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023”
.

26.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notices of entry) —

26.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ; and

26.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

26.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 20 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm
Order 2023” .

26.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)(c)—

26.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

26.5.a.2

But see article 25(3) (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Hornsea Four
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023, which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only
from this Schedule.

; and

26.5.b

at the end insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

26.5.b.30

.In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 16 (protective work to buildings), article
28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project) or article
29 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised project) of the
Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023.

#### Rights under or over streets

27

27.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of or
air–space over any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised project and may use the subsoil or air-space for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised project.

27.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

27.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

27.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

27.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

27.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph  (1)  without the undertaker acquiring any part
of that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

27.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph   (4)   to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing cost of necessary measures) of the 1991
Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to be
borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project

28

28.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
project—

28.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

28.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 8 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule; and

28.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

28.1.b

remove any buildings, agricultural plant and apparatus, drainage, fences,
debris and vegetation from that land;

28.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access and
footpaths), haul roads, security fencing, bridges, services, signage,
structures and buildings on that land;

28.1.d

use the land for the purposes of a working site with access to the working
site in connection with the authorised project;

28.1.e

construct any works, or use the land, as specified in relation to that land in
column 3 of Schedule 8 (land of which temporary possession may be taken), or
any mitigation works;

28.1.f

construct such works on that land as are mentioned in Part 1 of Schedule 1
(authorised development); and

28.1.g

carry out mitigation works required pursuant to the requirements in Part 3 of
Schedule 1 (authorised development).

28.2

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

28.3

The undertaker must not remain in possession of any land under this article
for longer than reasonably necessary and in any event must not, without the
agreement of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under
this article—

28.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised project specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Schedule 8 (land of which temporary possession may be taken); or

28.3.b

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(ii) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised project for which temporary possession of the land was taken unless
the undertaker has, before the end of that period, served a notice of entry
under section 11 of the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the
1981 Act in relation to that land.

28.4

Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or otherwise
acquired the land or rights over land subject to temporary possession or
otherwise agreed with the owners of the land, the undertaker must before
giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken
under this article, remove all works and restore the land to the reasonable
satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the undertaker is not required to—

28.4.a

replace any building, structure, drain or electric line removed under this
article;

28.4.b

remove any drainage works installed by the undertaker under this article;

28.4.c

remove any new road surface or other improvements carried out under this
article to any street specified in Schedule 2 (streets subject to street
works) or any new footpath surface or other enhancements carried out under
this article to any footpath or any improvements carried out under this
article to any bridge;

28.4.d

remove any fencing or boundary treatments installed by the undertaker under
this article to replace or enhance existing fencing or boundary treatments; or

28.4.e

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph
(1)(g)  insofar as the works relate to mitigation works identified in the
environmental statement or required pursuant to the requirements in Schedule
1.

28.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land which
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of any
power conferred by this article.

28.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (5)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

28.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised project, other than loss or damage for
which compensation is payable under paragraph  (5) .

28.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph  (1)(a)(i)  except that the undertaker is not precluded from—

28.8.a

acquiring new rights or imposing restrictive covenants over any part of that
land under article  21  (compulsory acquisition of rights etc.) to the extent
that such land is listed in column (1) of Schedule 6; or

28.8.b

acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land
under article  25  (acquisition of subsoil only).

28.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

28.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

28.11

Nothing in this article prevents the taking of temporary possession more than
once in relation to any land specified in Schedule 8.

28.12

Subject to article 43, so much of the special category land as is required for
the purposes of exercising the powers pursuant to this article is temporarily
discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously
subject, so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise
of those powers, and only for such time as any special category land is being
used under this article.

28.13

At any time where the undertaker has taken temporary possession of any part of
the Driffield Navigation under this article, on the starting date specified in
the notice given under paragraph (15) and for the duration specified in notice
given under paragraph (15), the public right of navigation over that part of
the Driffield Navigation is suspended and unenforceable against the Driffield
Navigation Trust.

28.14

Any person who suffers loss as a result of the suspension of any private right
of navigation over the Driffield Navigation under this article is entitled to
be paid compensation for such loss by the undertaker, to be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

28.15

Not later than 28 days prior to the proposed start of any suspension of the
public right of navigation over the Driffield Navigation under this article,
the undertaker must give written notice to The Driffield Navigation Trust
except in the case of an emergency when the undertaker must give such notice
as is reasonably practicable.

28.16

A notice given under paragraph (15) must provide details of the proposed
suspension including particulars of the—

28.16.a

start date;

28.16.b

duration; and

28.16.c

affected area.

28.17

Following receipt of a notice given under paragraph (15), The Driffield
Navigation Trust must issue a notice to mariners within 14 days, giving the
start date and other particulars of the suspension to which the notice
relates, and that suspension will take effect on the date specified and as
otherwise described in the notice.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised project

29

29.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised project, the undertaker may—

29.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any of the Order land if such
possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised project;

29.1.b

enter on any of the Order land for the purpose of gaining such access as is
reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised project; and

29.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

29.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

29.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

29.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

29.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

29.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised project for which possession of the land was taken.

29.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

29.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

29.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

29.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised project, other than loss or damage for
which compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

29.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

29.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

29.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ” means the period of 5 years
beginning with the date on which the authorised project first exports
electricity to the national electricity transmission network, unless a
different maintenance period is stated in the landscape management plan
approved under requirement  8  or in the code of construction practice
approved under requirement 18.

29.12

So much of the special category land as is required for the purposes of
exercising the powers pursuant to this article is temporarily discharged from
all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously subject, so far as
their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of those powers, and
only for such time as any special category land is being used under this
article.

29.13

At any time where the undertaker has taken temporary possession of any part of
the Driffield Navigation under this article, on the starting date specified in
the notice given under paragraph  (15)  and for the duration specified in
notice given under paragraph  (15) , the public right of navigation over that
part of the Driffield Navigation is suspended and unenforceable against the
Driffield Navigation Trust.

29.14

Any person who suffers loss as a result of the suspension of any private right
of navigation over the Driffield Navigation under this article is entitled to
be paid compensation for such loss by the undertaker, to be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

29.15

Not later than 28 days prior to the proposed start of any suspension of the
public right of navigation over the Driffield Navigation under this article,
the undertaker must give written notice to the Driffield Navigation Trust
except in the case of an emergency when the undertaker must give such notice
as is reasonably practicable.

29.16

A notice given under paragraph (15) must provide details of the proposed
suspension including particulars of the—

29.16.a

start date;

29.16.b

duration; and

29.16.c

affected area.

29.17

Following receipt of a notice given under paragraph (15), the Driffield
Navigation Trust must issue a notice to mariners within 14 days, giving the
starting date and other particulars of the suspension to which the notice
relates, and that suspension will take effect on the date specified and as
otherwise described in the notice.

#### Statutory undertakers

30

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 9 (protective provisions) the undertaker
may—

30.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the land plans
within the Order land and described in the book of reference; and

30.b

extinguish or suspend the rights of, or restrictions for the benefit of, or
remove, relocate or reposition the apparatus belonging to statutory
undertakers over or within the Order land.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

31

31.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 30 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

31.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 30 (statutory undertakers), any
person who is—

31.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

31.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

31.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act applies.

31.4

In this paragraph—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the 2003 Act; and           “ public utility undertaker ” means a
gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

### OPERATIONS

#### Operation of generating station

32

32.1

The undertaker is authorised to operate the generating station comprised in
the authorised project.

32.2

This article does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any
permit or licence under any other legislation that may be required from time
to time to authorise the operation of an electricity generating station.

#### Deemed marine licences under the 2009 Act

33

The deemed marine licences set out in Schedules 11 (deemed marine licence
under the 2009 Act — generation assets) and 12 (deemed marine licence under
the 2009 Act — transmission assets) respectively, are deemed to be granted to
the undertaker under Part 4 (marine licences) of the 2009 Act for the licensed
marine activities set out in Part 1, and subject to the conditions set out in
Part 2 of each of those Schedules.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

34

34.1

This article applies to—

34.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised project or the right to operate the same; and

34.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised project, or any
part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

34.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

34.3

Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the
rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any
such agreement so as to—

34.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

34.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

34.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

35

Development consent granted by this Order is treated as specific planning
permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in
which land is to be treated as not being operational land).

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

36

36.1

Subject to paragraph (3) and article 37 (trees subject to tree preservation
orders) the undertaker may fell or lop or cut back the roots of any tree or
shrub within or overhanging land within the Order limits or near any part of
the authorised project, or cut back its roots, if the undertaker reasonably
believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub from
obstructing or interfering with onshore site preparation works, the
construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised project or any
apparatus used in connection with the authorised project.

36.2

The undertaker may, for the purpose of the authorised project—

36.2.a

remove any hedgerows within the Order limits and specified in Schedule 10,
Part 1 (removal of hedgerows) that may be required for the purposes of
carrying out the authorised project; and

36.2.b

remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in
Schedule 10, Part 2 (removal of important hedgerows).

36.3

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
not do any unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation
to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

36.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (3),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

36.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

37

37.1

The undertaker may fell or lop or cut back the roots of any tree within or
overhanging land within the Order limits subject to a tree preservation order
as specified on the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan, if it
reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so in order to prevent the tree
from obstructing or interfering with onshore site preparation works ,  the
construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised project or any
apparatus used in connection with the authorised project.

37.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

37.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

37.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
does not apply.

37.3

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

37.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, will be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Certification of plans and documents, etc.

38

38.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of the documents listed in Schedule 15
(documents to be certified) for certification that they are true copies of the
documents referred to in this Order.

38.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

38.3

Where a plan or document certified under paragraph (1)—

38.3.a

refers to a provision of this Order (including any specified requirement) when
it was in draft form; and

38.3.b

identifies that provision by number, or combination of numbers and letters,
which is different from the number, or combination of numbers and letters by
which the corresponding provision of this Order is identified in this Order as
made;

the reference in the plan or document concerned must be construed for the
purposes of this Order as referring to the provision (if any) corresponding to
that provision in this Order as made.

#### Arbitration

39

39.1

Subject to article 42 (saving provisions for Trinity House), any difference
under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, must be
referred to and settled in arbitration in accordance with the rules at
Schedule 14 (arbitration rules) of this Order, by a single arbitrator to be
agreed upon by the parties, within 14 days of receipt of the notice of
arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

39.2

For the avoidance of doubt, any matter for which the consent or approval of
the Secretary of State or the Marine Management Organisation is required under
any provision of this Order will not be subject to arbitration.

#### Requirements, appeals, etc.

40

40.1

Where an application is made to, or a request is made of, the relevant
planning authority or any other relevant person for any agreement or approval
required or contemplated by any of the provisions of this Order, such
agreement or approval must, if given, be given in writing and must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

40.2

Part 4 of Schedule 1 (procedure for discharge of requirements) has effect in
relation to all agreements or approvals granted, refused or withheld in
relation to requirements included in Part 3 of that Schedule other than
requirement 29.

#### Abatement of works abandoned or decayed

41

Where any of Work Nos. 1, 2, 3 or 5 or all of them or any part of them, is
abandoned or allowed to fall into decay the Secretary of State may, following
consultation with the undertaker, issue a written notice requiring the
undertaker at its own expense either to repair, make safe and restore one or
any of those Works, or any relevant part of them, or to remove them or any
relevant part and, without prejudice to any notice served under section 105(2)
of the 2004 Act  restore the site to a safe and proper condition, to such an
extent and within such limits as may be specified in the notice.

#### Saving provisions for Trinity House

42

Nothing in this Order prejudices or derogates from any of the rights, duties
or privileges of Trinity House.

#### Crown rights

43

43.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker or any lessee or licensee to take, use,
enter upon or in any manner interfere with any land or rights of any
description (including any portion of the shore or bed of the sea or any
river, channel, creek, bay or estuary)—

43.1.a

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

43.1.b

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

43.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for His Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

43.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order for
the compulsory acquisition of an interest in any Crown land (as defined in the
2008 Act) which is for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of
the Crown.

43.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Protective provisions

44

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Funding

45

45.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by the provisions
referred to in paragraph  (2)  in relation to any land unless it has first put
in place either—

45.1.a

a guarantee and the amount of that guarantee approved by the Secretary of
State in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation
under this Order in respect of the exercise of the relevant power in relation
to that land; or

45.1.b

an alternative form of security and the amount of that security for that
purpose approved by the Secretary of State in respect of the liabilities of
the undertaker to pay compensation under this Order in respect of the exercise
of the relevant power in relation to that land.

45.2

The provisions are—

45.2.a

article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land);

45.2.b

article 21 (compulsory acquisition of rights etc.);

45.2.c

article 22 (private rights);

45.2.d

article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only);

45.2.e

article 27 (rights under or over streets);

45.2.f

article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project);

45.2.g

article 29 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised project); and

45.2.h

article 30 (statutory undertakers).

45.3

A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability
of the undertaker to pay compensation under this Order is to be treated as
enforceable against the guarantor or person providing the alternative form of
security by any person to whom such compensation is payable and must be in
such a form as to be capable of enforcement by such a person.

45.4

Nothing in this article requires a guarantee or alternative form of security
to be in place for more than 15 years after the date on which the relevant
power is exercised.

#### Amendment and modification of statutory provisions

46

The Dogger Bank Creyke Beck Offshore Wind Farm Order 2015 is amended for the
purposes of this Order only as set out in Schedule 13   (modifications to and
amendments of the Dogger Bank Cryke Beck Offshore Wind Farm Order 2015) .

#### Service of notices

47

47.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

47.1.a

by post;

47.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

47.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (6) to (8), by
electronic transmission.

47.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

47.3

For the purposes of section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978  (references to
service by post) as it applies for the purposes of this article, the proper
address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a notice or
document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address for
service, that address and otherwise—

47.3.a

  in the case of the secretary or   clerk of that body corporate, the
registered or principal office of that body; and

47.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at that time of
service.

47.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having an interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

47.4.a

addressing it to that person by the description of “owner”, or as the case may
be “occupier” of the land (describing it); and

47.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of the person who is or appears to be resident
or employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building
or object on or near the land.

47.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

47.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

47.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

47.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

47.5.d

in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for subsequent reference.

47.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within seven days of receipt that the
recipient requires a paper copy of all or any part of that notice or other
document the sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably
practicable.

47.7

Any consent to the use of an electronic transmission by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

47.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

47.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

47.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than seven days after the date on
which the notice is given.

47.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

47.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Modification of Section 106 agreements relating to land

48

The undertaker will not be bound by any obligation which would fall on any
owner or occupier of land which is bound by any of the section 106 agreements.

#### Compensation provisions

49

Schedule 16 (compensation to protect the coherence of the national site
network) has effect.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and
Net Zero       David Wagstaff   Deputy Director Energy Infrastructure Planning
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero     12th July 2023

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED PROJECT

Article 2

##### AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

1

A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14 and
15 of the 2008 Act which is located in the North Sea 69 kilometres due east of
Flamborough Head at its closest point, comprising—

######## Work No. 1—

1.a

an offshore wind turbine generating station with a gross electrical output of
over 100 megawatts comprising up to 180 wind turbine generators, each fixed to
the seabed by one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations or
jacket foundations;

1.b

one offshore accommodation platform fixed to the seabed within the area shown
on the offshore works plan by one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket
foundations, gravity base structures, box–type gravity base structures or
jacket foundations, and which offshore accommodation platform may be connected
to one of the offshore substations within Work No. 2 by a bridge link; and

1.c

a network of cables between the wind turbine generators, and between the wind
turbine generators and Work No. 2, including one or more cable crossings;

and associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) (development
for which development consent may be granted) of the 2008 Act comprising—

######## Work No. 2—

1.a

up to six small offshore transformer substations each fixed to the seabed by
one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, gravity base
structures, box–type gravity base structures or jacket foundations, and which
may be connected to each other or the offshore accommodation platform within
Work No. 1(b) by a bridge link; or

1.b

up to three large offshore transformer substations each fixed to the seabed by
one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, jacket
foundations, box–type gravity base structures, pontoon gravity base type 1
structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures, and which may be
connected to each other or the offshore accommodation platform within Work No.
1(b) by a bridge link;

1.c

in the event that the mode of transmission is HVDC, either up to three large
HVDC converter substations or up to six small HVDC converter substations fixed
to the seabed by one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations,
jacket foundations, gravity base structures, box–type gravity base structures,
pontoon gravity base type 1 structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2
structures;

1.d

a network of interconnector cables;

1.e

up to six cable circuits between Work No. 2 and Work No. 3, and between Work
No. 3 and Work No. 5 consisting of offshore export cables along routes within
the Order limits seaward of MLWS including one or more cable crossings; and

1.f

up to eight temporary horizontal directional drilling exit pits and associated
cofferdams;

######## Work No. 3— 

1.a

up to three offshore HVAC booster stations fixed to the seabed within the area
shown on the offshore works plan by one of monopile foundations, mono suction
bucket foundations, jacket foundations, gravity base structures, pontoon
gravity base type 1 structures or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures; and

1.b

up to six cable circuits between Work No. 2 and Work No. 3, and between Work
No. 3 and Work No. 5 consisting of offshore export cables along routes within
the Order limits seaward of MHWS including one or more cable crossings;

Work No. 4 — a temporary work area associated with Work No. 2 and Work No. 3
for vessels to carry out anchoring and positioning alongside Work No. 2 or
Work No. 3;

Between MHWS and MLWS and in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Work No. 5  —  up to six cable circuits and associated electrical circuit
ducts between Work No. 2 and Work No. 6.

In the East Riding of Yorkshire

Work No. 6 — connection works consisting of—

1.a

up to eight horizontal directional drilling launch pits;

1.b

up to six underground cable circuits and associated electrical circuit ducts
to Work No. 7;

1.c

up to eight transition joint bays;

1.d

onshore construction works;

1.e

up to 240 link boxes; and

1.f

up to 240 joint bays;

Work No. 7—  works consisting of—

1.a

an onshore HVDC/HVAC substation;

1.b

an energy balancing infrastructure;

1.c

up to six cable circuits and electrical circuit ducts;

1.d

vehicular access tracks and footpaths;

1.e

a water attenuation feature;

1.f

landscaping; and

1.g

onshore construction works;

Work No. 8—  connection works consisting of up to four underground cable
circuits and electrical circuit ducts between Work No. 7 and the Creyke Beck
National Grid substation, including a connection above ground and electrical
engineering works within or around the National Grid substation buildings and
compound, and onshore construction works.

Work No. 9—  temporary works as follows—

1.a

temporary vehicular access tracks;

1.b

temporary works area to support the construction activities in Work No. 7;

1.c

temporary logistics compounds to support the construction of Work Nos. 5, 6,
7, and 8; and

1.d

temporary construction ramp;

Work No. 10 —

1.a

vehicular access tracks to serve Work No. 7, and footpaths; and

1.b

an extension to a layby.

In connection with such Work Nos. 1 to 5 and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised development and
which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental
statement, including—

1.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

1.b

cable protection measures such as the placement of rock, split pipe system,
and/or concrete mattresses;

1.c

cable crossings;

1.d

the removal of material from the seabed within the Order limits required for
the construction of Work Nos. 1 to 5 and the disposal within Work No. 1 of up
to 7,211,601 cubic metres (being a maximum, not an approximate upper figure)
of inert material of natural origin and within Work Nos. 2, 3 and 4 up to
4,105,735 cubic metres (being a maximum, not an approximate upper figure) of
inert material of natural origin produced during construction drilling, seabed
preparation for foundation works, cable installation preparation works (such
as sandwave clearance and boulder clearance) and excavation of horizontal
directional drilling pits; and

1.e

removal of static fishing equipment;

and in connection with such Work Nos. 6 to 10 and to the extent that they do
not otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised development and
which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental
statement, including—

1.a

ramps, bridges, means of access and footpaths and footpath enhancement;

1.b

bunds, embankments, swales, landscaping, signage, fencing and boundary
treatments;

1.c

habitat creation and enhancement;

1.d

joint bays, link boxes, cable ducts, cable protection, joint protection,
manholes, marker posts, underground cable marker, tiles and tape, and lighting
and other works associated with cable laying;

1.e

works for the provision of apparatus including cabling, water and electricity
supply works, foul drainage provision, surface water management systems and
culverting;

1.f

works to alter the position of apparatus, including mains, sewers, drains and
cables;

1.g

works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with, non-navigable
rivers, streams or watercourses;

1.h

landscaping and related works;

1.i

other works to mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance
or operation of the authorised project;

1.j

works for the benefit or protection of land affected by the authorised
project;

1.k

working sites in connection with the construction of the authorised project,
construction lay down areas and compounds, storage compounds and their
restoration; and

1.l

enhancement.

2

The grid coordinates for that part of the authorised project which is seaward
of MHWS are specified below—

Point ID Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point ID Latitude (DMS) Longitude
(DMS) 1 54° 2′ 7.166″ N 0° 12′ 58.381″ W 68 53° 59′ 17.868″ N 1° 17′ 11.556″ E
2 54° 2′ 7.022″ N 0° 12′ 48.680″ W 69 53° 58′ 55.615″ N 1° 16′ 14.402″ E 3 54°
2′ 28.905″ N 0° 12′ 23.610″ W 70 53° 58′ 54.680″ N 1° 16′ 10.907″ E 4 54° 3′
4.330″ N 0° 9′ 20.564″ W 71 53° 58′ 54.305″ N 1° 16′ 7.041″ E 5 54° 3′ 2.961″
N 0° 8′ 57.136″ W 72 53° 58′ 48.150″ N 1° 9′ 3.489″ E 6 54° 3′ 46.646″ N 0° 6′
22.355″W 73 53° 58′ 49.099″ N 1° 8′ 56.253 ″ E 7 54° 3′ 55.011″ N 0° 6′ 0.668″
W 74 53° 59′ 33.340″ N 1° 5′ 22.618″ E 8 54° 4′ 5.592″ N 0° 5′ 7.239″ W 75 53°
59′ 16.728″ N 1° 0′ 29.597″ E 9 54° 4′ 7.120″ N 0° 4′ 56.079″ W 76 53° 59′
10.802″ N 0° 59′ 53.488″ E 10 54° 4′ 7.947″ N 0° 4′ 12.149″ W 77 53° 59′
0.241″ N 0° 59′ 7.651″ E 11 54° 4′ 7.646″ N 0° 4′ 2.450″ W 78 53° 58′ 58.446″
N 0° 58′ 57.385″ E 12 54° 3′ 39.131″ N 0° 1′ 17.603″ E 79 53° 58′ 53.673″ N 0°
57′ 53.130″ E 13 54° 3′ 36.602″ N 0° 1′ 19.983″ E 80 53° 58′ 53.613″ N 0° 57′
45.865″ E 14 54° 3′ 36.653″ N 0° 1′ 27.388″ E 81 53° 58′ 54.420″ N 0° 57′
26.213″ E 15 54° 3′ 37.742″ N 0° 1′ 33.117″ E 82 53° 58′ 58.248″ N 0° 56′
45.174″ E 16 54° 3′ 31.432″ N 0° 2′ 43.501″ E 83 53° 59′ 56.956″ N 0° 50′
1.171″ E 17 54° 3′ 21.791″ N 0° 4′ 54.431″ E 84 54° 0′ 12.504″ N 0° 48′ 1.381″
E 18 54° 3′ 20.107″ N 0° 5′ 29.470″ E 85 54° 0′ 12.515″ N 0° 47′ 27.367″ E 19
54° 3′ 20.504″ N 0° 5′ 36.188″ E 86 54° 0′ 13.296″ N 0° 46′ 40.673″ E 20 54°
3′ 29.852″ N 0° 6′ 6.995″ E 87 54° 0′ 12.634″ N 0° 46′ 30.459″ E 21 54° 4′
17.513″ N 0° 8′ 11.780″ E 88 54° 0′ 11.415″ N 0° 46′ 24.233″ E 22 54° 4′
19.804″ N 0° 8′ 20.650″ E 89 53° 59′ 39.945″ N 0° 44′ 55.026″ E 23 54° 4′
29.084″ N 0° 9′ 5.618″ E 90 53° 59′ 33.773″ N 0° 44′ 35.130″ E 24 54° 4′
30.902″ N 0° 9′ 18.035″ E 91 53° 59′ 28.402″ N 0° 44′ 15.020″ E 25 54° 4′
31.360″ N 0° 9′ 29.006″ E 92 53° 59′ 26.858″ N 0° 44′ 5.508″ E 26 54° 4′
30.770″ N 0° 11′ 14.823″ E 93 53° 59′ 23.738″ N 0° 43′ 35.842″ E 27 54° 4′
41.436″ N 0° 13′ 46.313″ E 94 53° 59′ 23.191″ N 0° 42′ 42.267″ E 28 54° 4′
51.664″ N 0° 18′ 10.115″ E 95 53° 59′ 23.584″ N 0° 42′ 32.090″ E 29 54° 4′
49.674″ N 0° 22′ 20.794″ E 96 53° 59′ 29.653″ N 0° 41′ 39.599″ E 30 54° 4′
34.602″ N 0° 25′ 8.241″ E 97 53° 59′ 31.433″ N 0° 41′ 30.497″ E 31 54° 3′
47.343″ N 0° 28′ 41.594″ E 98 53° 59′ 34.340″ N 0° 41′ 20.783″ E 32 54° 3′
29.522″ N 0° 29′ 45.309″ E 99 54° 1′ 11.539″ N 0° 37′ 38.060″ E 33 54° 3′
12.983″ N 0° 30′ 41.496″ E 100 54° 1′ 53.954″ N 0° 30′ 4.210″ E 34 54° 3′
11.866″ N 0° 30′ 46.755″ E 101 54° 1′ 55.082″ N 0° 29′ 58.960″ E 35 54° 2′
29.831″ N 0° 38′ 16.384″ E 102 54° 2′ 16.836″ N 0° 28′ 45.068″ E 36 54° 2′
28.252″ N 0° 38′ 27.328″ E 103 54° 2′ 34.272″ N 0° 27′ 42.729″ E 37 54° 2′
25.710″ N 0° 38′ 37.464″ E 104 54° 3′ 14.191″ N 0° 24′ 52.548″ E 38 54° 2′
22.467″ N 0° 38′ 46.275″ E 105 54° 3′ 28.906″ N 0° 22′ 9.330″ E 39 54° 0′
46.742″ N 0° 42′ 25.062″ E 106 54° 3′ 30.827″ N 0° 18′ 25.085″ E 40 54° 0′
44.114″ N 0° 42′ 47.823″ E 107 54° 3′ 25.965″ N 0° 15′ 11.395″ E 41 54° 0′
44.168″ N 0° 42′ 53.983″ E 108 54° 3′ 10.152″ N 0° 11′ 26.334″ E 42 54° 0′
37.964″ N 0° 43′ 8.166″ E 109 54° 3′ 9.658″ N 0° 11′ 1.640″ E 43 54° 0′
33.962″ N 0° 43′ 31.109″ E 110 54° 3′ 10.393″ N 0° 9′ 39.559″ E 44 54° 0′
51.704″ N 0° 44′ 6.496″ E 111 54° 3′ 7.676″ N 0° 9′ 26.386″ E 45 54° 0′
57.175″ N 0° 44′ 19.901″ E 112 54° 3′ 13.846″ N 0° 8′ 47.985″ E 46 54° 1′
20.169″ N 0° 45′ 45.285″ E 113 54° 1′ 59.146″ N 0° 5′ 34.054″ E 47 54° 1′
22.890″ N 0° 46′ 0.288″ E 114 54° 1′ 59.193″ N 0° 5′ 24.927″ E 48 54° 1′
33.372″ N 0° 47′ 34.265″ E 115 54° 2′ 1.399″ N 0° 4′ 39.525″ E 49 54° 1′
33.357″ N 0° 48′ 6.711″ E 116 54° 2′ 14.627″ N 0° 1′ 34.678″ E 50 54° 1′
32.702″ N 0° 48′ 19.691″ E 117 54° 2′ 13.616″ N 0° 1′ 29.370″ E 51 54° 1′
26.938″ N 0° 49′ 8.341″ E 118 54° 2′ 9.931″ N 0° 1′ 16.745″ W 52 54° 1′
15.588″ N 0° 50′ 33.236″ E 119 54° 1′ 43.569″ N 0° 0′ 7.896″ W 53 54° 0′
17.357″ N 0° 57′ 13.969″ E 120 54° 1′ 31.663″ N 0° 0′ 25.766″ W 54 54° 0′
15.266″ N 0° 57′ 36.824″ E 121 54° 1′ 7.679″ N 0° 1′ 51.463″ W 55 54° 0′
14.766″ N 0° 57′ 48.644″ E 122 54° 1′ 0.011″ N 0° 2′ 21.082″ W 56 54° 0′
17.493″ N 0° 58′ 26.081″ E 123 54° 1′ 0.055″ N 0° 4′ 18.699″ W 57 54° 0′
27.621″ N 0° 59′ 10.323″ E 124 54° 1′ 25.632″ N 0° 12′ 25.517″ W 58 54° 0′
36.596″ N 1° 0′ 6.568″ E 125 54° 1′ 41.883″ N 0° 12′ 50.086″ W 59 54° 0′
53.351″ N 1° 4′ 59.324″ E 126 54° 1′ 39.112″ N 0° 12′ 50.078″ W 60 54° 2′
51.236″ N 1° 8′ 18.052″ E 127 54° 1′ 39.246″ N 0° 12′ 59.069″ W 61 54° 7′
24.985″ N 0° 59′ 54.702″ E 128 54° 1′ 39.257″ N 0° 12′ 59.850″ W 62 54° 9′
13.497″ N 1° 0′ 43.850″ E 129 54° 1′ 39.742″ N 0° 12′ 59.821″ W 63 54° 10′
49.480″ N 0° 58′ 21.782″ E 130 54° 1′ 39.731″ N 0° 12′ 59.103″ W 64 54° 12′
37.143″ N 0° 58′ 31.095″ E 131 54° 1′ 43.547″ N 0° 12′ 59.118″ W 65 54° 12′
17.413″ N 1° 12′ 18.263″ E 132 54° 1′ 43.811″ N 0° 12′ 59.860″ W 66 54° 4′
13.012″ N 1° 30′ 5.270″ E 133 54° 2′ 7.201″ N 0° 13′ 0.387″ W 67 53° 59′
15.598″ N 1° 17′ 20.651″ E

##### ANCILLARY WORKS

1

Works within the Order limits which have been subject to an environmental
impact assessment recorded in the environmental statement comprising—

1.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating or
anchoring vessels in the construction and/or maintenance of the authorised
development;

1.b

marking buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works; and

1.c

temporary works for the benefit or protection of land or structures affected
by the authorised development.

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Time limits

1

The authorised project must not be commenced after the expiration of seven
years beginning with the date this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed offshore design parameters

2

2.1

The total number of wind turbine generators comprised in the authorised
project must not exceed 180.

2.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), each wind turbine generator forming part of the
authorised project must not—

2.2.a

exceed a height of 370 metres when measured from LAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

2.2.b

exceed a rotor diameter of 305 metres;

2.2.c

be less than 42.43 metres from LAT to the lowest point of the rotating blade;
and

2.2.d

be less than 810 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in all
directions.

2.3

The minimum distance in sub-paragraph (2)(d) between each wind turbine
generator is to be measured from the centre point of the wind turbine
generator.

2.4

Wind turbine generator foundation structures forming part of the authorised
project must be one of either monopile foundations, mono suction bucket
foundations or jacket foundations.

2.5

No wind turbine generator—

2.5.a

jacket foundations employing pin piles forming part of the authorised project
may—

2.5.a.i

have a pin pile diameter of greater than four metres; and

2.5.a.ii

employ more than 16 pin piles per jacket foundation; and

2.5.b

monopile foundation forming part of the authorised project may have a diameter
greater than 15 metres.

2.6

The total combined seabed footprint area for wind turbine generator
foundations must not exceed—

2.6.a

302,180 square metres excluding scour protection; and

2.6.b

985,240 square metres including scour protection.

2.7

The wind turbine generators comprised in the authorised project must be
constructed in accordance with the parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

3

3.1

The total number of offshore electrical installations and offshore
accommodation platforms must not exceed ten, consisting of a combination of no
more than—

3.1.a

six small offshore transformer substations;

3.1.b

three large offshore transformer substations;

3.1.c

three offshore HVAC booster stations;

3.1.d

six small offshore HVDC converter stations;

3.1.e

three large offshore HVDC converter stations; and

3.1.f

one offshore accommodation platform.

3.2

The dimensions of any small offshore transformer substation (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised project
must not exceed—

3.2.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

3.2.b

90 metres in length; and

3.2.c

90 metres in width.

3.3

The dimensions of any large offshore transformer substation (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised project
must not exceed—

3.3.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

3.3.b

180 metres in length; and

3.3.c

90 metres in width.

3.4

The dimensions of any offshore HVAC booster station (including auxiliary
structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but excluding
masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised project must not
exceed—

3.4.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

3.4.b

90 metres in length; and

3.4.c

90 metres in width.

3.5

The dimensions of any small offshore HVDC converter substation (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised project
must not exceed—

3.5.a

90 metres in height when measured from LAT;

3.5.b

100 metres in length; and

3.5.c

100 metres in width.

3.6

The dimensions of any large offshore HVDC converter substation (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised project
must not exceed—

3.6.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

3.6.b

180 metres in length; and

3.6.c

90 metres in width.

3.7

The dimensions of any offshore accommodation platform forming part of the
authorised project must not exceed—

3.7.a

64 metres in height when measured from LAT;

3.7.b

60 metres in length; and

3.7.c

60 metres in width.

3.8

Offshore accommodation platform foundation structures forming part of the
authorised project must be one of either monopile foundations, mono suction
bucket foundations, gravity base structures, jacket foundations or box–type
gravity base structures.

3.9

Offshore electrical installation foundation structures forming part of the
authorised project must be one of the following foundation options—

3.9.a

for small offshore transformer substations and offshore HVAC booster stations
either monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, jacket
foundations, gravity base structures or box–type gravity base structures; and

3.9.b

for large offshore transformer substations and offshore HVDC converter
stations either monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, jacket
foundations, box–type gravity base structures, gravity base structures,
pontoon gravity base type 1 structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2
structures.

3.10

No offshore electrical installation or offshore accommodation platform—

3.10.a

jacket foundation employing pin piles forming part of the authorised project
may—

3.10.a.i

have a pin pile diameter of greater than four metres; and

3.10.a.ii

employ more than 16 pin piles per jacket foundation; and

3.10.b

monopile foundation forming part of the authorised project may have a diameter
greater than 15 metres.

3.11

The total seabed footprint area for offshore accommodation platform
foundations must not exceed—

3.11.a

5,625 square metres excluding scour protection; and

3.11.b

30,625 square metres including scour protection.

3.12

The total seabed footprint area for offshore electrical installation
foundations must not exceed—

3.12.a

101,250 square metres excluding scour protection; and

3.12.b

371,250 square metres including scour protection.

3.13

The total number of gravity base structures may not exceed ten for offshore
electrical installations and offshore accommodation platforms.

3.14

The offshore electrical installations and offshore accommodation platform
comprised in the authorised project must be constructed in accordance with
parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

3.15

A bridge link forming part of the authorised development must be installed at
a minimum height of 20 metres when measured from LAT.

4

The total volume of scour protection for wind turbine generators, offshore
accommodation platform and offshore electrical installations may not exceed
2,172,040 cubic metres and must be in accordance with the pro–rata annex.

5

5.1

The number of cable circuits must not exceed six.

5.2

The cables comprising Work No. 1(c) must not—

5.2.a

exceed 600 kilometres in length; and

5.2.b

be subject to cable protection with an area greater than 624,000 square
metres.

5.3

The cables comprising Work No. 2(d) must not—

5.3.a

exceed 90 kilometres in length; and

5.3.b

be subject to cable protection with an area greater than 94,000 square metres.

5.4

The cables comprising Work No. 2(e) must not—

5.4.a

exceed 654 kilometres in length; and

5.4.b

be subject to cable protection with an area greater than 792,000 square
metres.

5.5

The total number of the cable crossings must not exceed—

5.5.a

32 within the area of Work Nos. 1 and 2(d); and

5.5.b

54 within the area utilised for Work No. 2(e);

unless otherwise agreed with the MMO.

5.6

The total volume of cable protection must not exceed 2,042,000 cubic metres
with a maximum footprint of 2,058,000 square metres.

5.7

The cables and cable circuits comprised in the authorised development must be
constructed in accordance with the parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

###### Biodiversity net gain

6

6.1

No stage of the connection works in Work No. 7 may commence until a net gain
strategy (which must accord with the outline net gain strategy) in relation to
that stage has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority, in consultation with the relevant SNCBs.

6.2

The net gain strategy must be implemented as approved.

###### Detailed design approval onshore

7

7.1

Construction of Work No. 7(a) and (b) may not commence until detailed plans
and drawings of—

7.1.a

the layout;

7.1.b

scale;

7.1.c

proposed finished ground levels;

7.1.d

external appearance and materials;

7.1.e

hard surfacing materials;

7.1.f

vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and circulation areas;

7.1.g

minor structures, such as furniture, refuse or other storage units, signs and
lighting;

7.1.h

proposed and existing functional services above and   below ground , including
drainage, power and communications cables and pipelines, manholes and
supports; and

7.1.i

means to control operational noise from Work No. 7 to a level no greater than
5dB above representative background (LA90,T) at the nearest identified noise
sensitive receptors;

relating to that work of the authorised project have been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority.

7.2

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must be in accordance with the
outline design plan.

7.3

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must be subject to a design
review process carried out by an independent design review panel to the
satisfaction of the relevant planning authority.

7.4

Work No. 7(a) and (b) must be carried out in accordance with the approved
details.

7.5

Work No. 7(a) and (b) may not commence until confirmation of the choice of
HVDC or HVAC or a combination of both has been provided to the relevant
planning authority, either before, or at the same time as, the details
referred to in sub–paragraph (1).

###### Provision of landscaping

8

8.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until a written landscape
management plan and associated work programme (which accords with the outline
landscape management plan and outline ecological management plan) for that
stage of the connection works has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority in consultation with the relevant SNCBs and
Historic England.

8.2

The landscape management plan must include details of—

8.2.a

surveys, assessments and method statements as guided by BS 5837 and the
Hedgerows Regulations 1997;

8.2.b

location, number, species, size and planting density of any proposed planting;

8.2.c

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment; and

8.2.d

implementation timetables for the relevant stage of the landscaping works.

8.3

The landscape management plan must be carried out as approved.

###### Implementation and maintenance of landscaping

9

9.1

All landscape works must be carried out in accordance with the landscape
management plans approved under requirement 8 (provision of landscaping), and
in accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British
Standards.

9.2

Unless otherwise stated in the approved landscape management plan or
enhancement strategy approved under requirement 23, any tree or shrub planted
as part of an approved landscape management plan that, within a period of five
years after planting, is removed by the undertaker, dies or becomes, in the
opinion of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased must
be replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same
species and size as that originally planted unless otherwise approved by the
relevant planning authority.

9.3

Unless otherwise stated in the approved landscape management plan or
enhancement strategy, within a period of five years after completion of the
planting of the approved landscape works comprising Work No. 7(f), a landscape
management and maintenance plan for Work No. 7(f) must be submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority.

9.4

The landscape management and maintenance plan for Work No. 7(f) must include
details of the management and maintenance of Work No. 7(f) until the
connection works are decommissioned in accordance with the onshore
decommissioning plan approved under requirement 25 (onshore decommissioning).

9.5

The landscape management and maintenance plan for Work No. 7(f) must be
carried out as approved.

###### Ecological management plan

10

10.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until a written ecological
management plan (which accords with the outline ecological management plan and
the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards) for that stage
of the connection works reflecting the survey results and ecological
mitigation has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority in consultation with the relevant SNCBs and (where works have
potential to impact wetland habitats) the Environment Agency.

10.2

The ecological management plan must include an implementation timetable for
the relevant stage of the connection works and must be carried out as
approved.

###### Highway accesses

11

11.1

Construction of any new permanent or temporary means of access to a highway,
or alteration, or use of an existing means of access to a highway, must not
commence until an access plan for that access has been submitted to and
approved by the relevant highway authority.

11.2

The access plan must include details of the siting, design, layout, visibility
splays, access management measures, lighting, signing, safety measures and a
maintenance programme relevant to the access it relates to.

11.3

The highway accesses (including visibility splays) must be constructed and
maintained in accordance with the approved details.

###### Fencing and other means of permanent enclosure

12

12.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until details of all proposed
permanent fences, walls or other means of enclosure of that stage of the
connection works have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

12.2

The details submitted under paragraph (1) must be in accordance with the
outline design plan.

12.3

Any approved permanent fencing in relation to the connection works in Work No.
7 must be completed before those works are brought into use and must be
maintained until the connection works are decommissioned in accordance with
the onshore decommissioning plan approved under requirement 25 (onshore
decommissioning).

###### Temporary fencing and other temporary means of enclosure

13

13.1

The details of any temporary fences, walls, or other means of enclosure
required for the construction of the connection works must be included in the
code of construction practice approved under requirement  18  (which must
accord with the outline code of construction practice).

13.2

All construction sites must remain securely enclosed at all times during
construction of the connection works in accordance with the details approved
under sub-paragraph (1) above.

13.3

The temporary fencing or other temporary means of enclosure must be removed on
completion of that stage of the connection works to the satisfaction of the
relevant planning authority.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

14

14.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until written details of the
surface and (if any) foul water drainage system (including means of pollution
control) (which must accord with the outline onshore infrastructure drainage
strategy) for the construction of that stage of the connection works have,
after consultation with the relevant sewerage and drainage authorities and the
Environment Agency, been submitted to and approved by the lead local flood
authority.

14.2

No stage of the connection works may commence operation until written details
of the surface and (if any) foul water drainage system (including means of
pollution control) for that stage of the connection works have, after
consultation with the relevant sewerage and drainage authorities and the
Environment Agency, been submitted to and approved by the lead local flood
authority.

14.3

The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed, operated and
maintained in accordance with the approved details.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater scheme

15

15.1

No stage of the connection works or Work No. 5 may commence until a written
scheme to deal with the contamination of any land (including groundwater) of
that stage of the connection works or Work No. 5 within the Order limits that
is likely to cause significant harm to persons or pollution of controlled
waters or the environment has been submitted to, and approved by, the relevant
planning authority in consultation with the Environment Agency and, to the
extent that the plan relates to the intertidal area, the MMO.

15.2

The scheme must include an investigation and assessment report, to identify
the extent of any contamination and the remedial measures to be taken for that
stage to render the land fit for its intended purpose, together with a
management plan which sets out long-term measures with respect to any
contaminants remaining on the site.

15.3

Such remediation as may be identified in the approved scheme must be carried
out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Surface water

16

16.1

No stage of the connection works in Work No. 7 may commence until, in respect
of that installation, a detailed surface water scheme has been prepared in
consultation with the relevant sewerage and drainage authorities and the
Environment Agency and submitted to and approved by the lead local flood
authority.

16.2

The detailed surface water schemes must accord with the outline onshore
infrastructure drainage strategy and—

16.2.a

be based on sustainable drainage principles;

16.2.b

include an assessment of the hydrological and hydrogeological context of the
connection works in Work No. 7; and

16.2.c

include detailed designs of a surface water drainage scheme.

16.3

Construction of the connection works in Work No. 7 must be carried out in
accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Onshore archaeology

17

17.1

No stage of the connection works or Work No. 5 may commence until a written
scheme of archaeological investigation (which must accord with the outline
written scheme of investigation for onshore archaeology) for that stage of the
connection works or Work No. 5 has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority in consultation with Historic England.

17.2

Archaeological investigations carried out as part of onshore site preparation
works must only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of
investigation (which must accord with the outline written scheme of
investigation for onshore archaeology) which has been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Historic
England.

17.3

All archaeological investigations (other than archaeological investigations
carried out as part of onshore site preparation works referred to in sub-
paragraph (2)) must be carried out in accordance with the written scheme of
archaeological investigation approved under sub-paragraph (1).

17.4

The archaeological site investigations and post investigation assessment must
be completed in accordance with the programme set out in the written scheme of
archaeological investigation and provision made for analysis, publication and
dissemination of results and archive deposition.

###### Code of construction practice

18

18.1

No stage of the connection works, Work No. 2 (f) or Work No. 5 may commence
until a code of construction practice (which must accord with the outline code
of construction practice but may not include the outline construction traffic
management plan in the event that the outline construction traffic management
plan has been, or is in the process of being, approved separately pursuant to
requirement 19) for that stage of the connection works has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with the
Environment Agency, the relevant SNCBs and, if applicable, the MMO.

18.2

All connection works must be undertaken in accordance with the relevant
approved code of construction practice.

###### Construction traffic management plan

19

19.1

No stage of the connection works or Work No. 5 may commence until written
details of a construction traffic management plan (which accords with the
outline construction traffic management plan) for that stage of the connection
works or Work No. 5 has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority in consultation with the relevant highway authorities (and
approved by Network Rail in accordance with paragraph 5 of Part 4 of Schedule
9).

19.2

The construction traffic management plan must be implemented as approved.

###### European protected species onshore

20

20.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until final pre-construction
survey work has been carried out to establish whether a European protected
species is present on any of the land affected, or likely to be affected, by
that stage of the connection works or in any of the trees to be lopped or
felled as part of that stage of the connection works.

20.2

Where a European protected species is shown to be present, the relevant
stage(s) of the connection works must not begin until, after consultation with
the relevant SNCBs and the relevant planning authority, a scheme of protection
and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority or a European protected species licence granted by Natural
England.

20.3

The connection works must be carried out in accordance with the approved
scheme.

20.4

In this Requirement, “ European Protected Species ” has the same meaning as in
regulations 42 and 46 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations
2017 .

###### Restoration of land used temporarily for construction

21

Any land landward of MLWS within the Order limits which is used temporarily
for construction of the connection works and not ultimately incorporated in
permanent works or approved landscaping, must be reinstated in accordance with
such details as have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority in consultation with, where appropriate, the MMO, and the relevant
highway authority, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within
twelve months of completion of the connection works.

###### Control of noise during operational phase

22

22.1

Work Nos. 7(a), (b) and (c)   must not  commence operations until a noise
management plan (NMP) for those works has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant planning authority.

22.2

The NMP must set out the particulars of—

22.2.a

any necessary noise attenuation and mitigation measures to be taken to
minimise noise resulting from Work No. 7, including any noise limits; and

22.2.b

a scheme for monitoring attenuation and mitigation measures provided under
sub-paragraph  (a)  which must include—

22.2.b.i

the circumstances under which noise will be monitored;

22.2.b.ii

the locations at which noise will be monitored;

22.2.b.iii

the method of noise measurement (which must be in accord with BS
4142:2014+A1:2019, an equivalent successor standard or other agreed noise
measurement methodology appropriate to the circumstances); and

22.2.b.iv

a complaints procedure.

22.3

The NMP must be implemented as approved.

###### Enhancement strategy

23

23.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until written details of an
enhancement strategy (which accords with the outline enhancement strategy) for
that stage of the connection works has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

23.2

The enhancement strategy must be implemented as approved.

###### Ministry of Defence radar mitigation

24

24.1

No wind turbine generator forming part of the authorised development is
permitted to rotate its rotor blades on its horizontal axis until the
Secretary of State, having consulted with the Ministry of Defence, confirms
satisfaction that appropriate mitigation will be implemented and maintained
for the life of the authorised development and that arrangements have been put
in place with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that the approved mitigation
is implemented.

24.2

For the purposes of this requirement—

“ appropriate mitigation ” means measures to prevent or remove any
unacceptable effects which the authorised development will have on air defence
radar capability of Remote Radar Head (RRH) Staxton Wold and the Ministry of
Defence’s air surveillance and control operations that it supports; “ approved
mitigation ” means the detailed Radar Mitigation Scheme (RMS) that will set
out the appropriate measures and timescales for implementation as agreed with
the Ministry of Defence at the time the Secretary of State confirms
satisfaction in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1) ; and “ Ministry of Defence
” means the Ministry of Defence as represented by Defence Infrastructure
Organisation – Safeguarding, St George’s House, DIO Head Office, DMS
Whittington, Lichfield, Staffordshire, WS14 9PY or any successor body.

24.3

The undertaker must thereafter comply with all other obligations contained
within the approved mitigation for the life of the authorised development.

###### Onshore decommissioning

25

25.1

Within three months of the permanent cessation of operation of the connection
works an onshore decommissioning plan must be submitted to the relevant
planning authority for approval unless otherwise agreed by the relevant
planning authority.

25.2

The relevant planning authority must provide its decision on the onshore
decommissioning plan required under requirement  25(1)  within three months of
submission of such plan unless otherwise agreed by the relevant planning
authority and the undertaker.

25.3

The onshore decommissioning plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Employment and skills plan

26

26.1

No stage of the connection works may commence until for that stage an
employment and skills plan (which accords with the outline employment and
skills plan) in relation to the authorised development has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority.

26.2

The employment and skills plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Energy balancing infrastructure safety management

27

27.1

Work No. 7(b) must not commence until an energy balancing infrastructure HazID
report (which accords with the outline energy balancing infrastructure HazID
report) has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

27.2

The energy balancing infrastructure HazID report must be implemented as
approved.

###### Stages of authorised development

28

28.1

The authorised development may not be commenced until a written scheme setting
out the stages of construction of the authorised project has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority, in relation to the connection
works, or the MMO, in relation to works seaward of MHWS.

28.2

The stages of construction referred to in sub–paragraph  (1)  must not permit
the authorised development to be constructed in more than one overall phase.

28.3

The scheme must be implemented as approved.

###### Claxby Radar Mitigation

29

29.1

No wind turbine generator blades forming part of the authorised development
may be installed until the Secretary of State, having consulted with NATS, has
confirmed satisfaction that appropriate mitigation will be implemented and
maintained for the required period and that arrangements have been put in
place with NATS to ensure that the approved mitigation is implemented and in
operation prior to installation of the wind turbine blades.

29.2

The undertaker must thereafter comply with the obligations contained within
the approved mitigation for the required period.

29.3

For the purposes of this requirement—

“ appropriate mitigation ” means measures to mitigate any adverse effects
which the operation of the authorised development will have on the primary
surveillance radar at Claxby and NATS’ associated air traffic (surveillance
and control) services/operations during the required period; “ approved
mitigation ” means the detailed Primary Radar Mitigation Scheme setting out
the appropriate mitigation approved by the Secretary of State and confirmed in
accordance with sub-paragraph (1); “ NATS ” means NATS (En-Route) Plc (company
number 04219273) or any successor body; “ the required period ” means the
shorter of— the operational life of the authorised development; and the period
ending on the date notified to the Secretary of State by the undertaker and
confirmed by NATS being the date on which NATS no longer requires the
appropriate mitigation to be in place.

###### Requirement for written approval

30

Where the approval, agreement or confirmation of the Secretary of State, the
relevant planning authority or another person is required under a requirement,
that approval, agreement or confirmation must be given in writing.

###### Amendments to approved details

31

31.1

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised project to be
carried out in accordance with the details approved by the relevant planning
authority or another organisation or body, the approved details must be
carried out as approved unless an amendment or variation is previously agreed
by the relevant planning authority or that other organisation or body in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

31.2

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details must be in
accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the environmental
statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to immaterial changes
where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the relevant planning
authority or that other organisation or body that the subject matter of the
agreement sought is unlikely to give rise to any materially greater
environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental statement.

31.3

The approved details must be taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved by the relevant planning authority or that other
person.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Part of this Schedule, “ discharging authority ” means—

1.a

any body responsible for giving any consent, agreement or approval required by
a requirement included in Part 3 of this Schedule, or for giving any consent,
agreement or approval further to any document referred to in any such
requirement; or

1.b

the local authority in the exercise of its functions set out in sections 60
(control of noise on construction sites) and 61 (prior consent for work on
construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 subsequently referred
to as “ the 1974 Act ” .

###### Applications made under requirements

2

2.1

Where an application has been made to the discharging authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement contained in Part 3
of this Schedule, or for any consent, agreement or approval further to any
document referred to in any such requirement, the discharging authority must
give notice to the undertaker of its decision on the application within a
period of eight weeks beginning with—

2.1.a

the day immediately following that on which a valid application is received by
the discharging authority (such validity to be confirmed by the discharging
authority within five days of receipt of the application); or

2.1.b

where further information is requested under paragraph 3 the day immediately
following that on which the further information has been supplied by the
undertaker, or such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the
undertaker and the discharging authority.

2.2

In determining any application made to the discharging authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement contained in Part 3
of this Schedule, the discharging authority may—

2.2.a

give or refuse its consent, agreement or approval; or

2.2.b

give its consent, agreement or approval either subject to reasonable
conditions, or unconditionally,

and where consent, agreement or approval is refused or granted subject to
conditions the discharging authority must provide its reasons for that
decision with the notice of the decision.

###### Further information regarding requirements

3

3.1

In relation to any application referred to in paragraph 2, the discharging
authority may request such further information from the undertaker as it
considers necessary to enable it to consider the application.

3.2

If the discharging authority considers that further information is necessary
and the requirement concerned contained in Part 3 of this Schedule does not
specify that consultation with a consultee is required, the discharging
authority must, within ten working days of receipt of the application, notify
the undertaker in writing specifying the further information required.

3.3

If the requirement concerned contained in Part 3 of this Schedule specifies
that consultation with a consultee is required, the discharging authority must
issue the application to the consultee within five working days of receipt of
the application, and notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further
information requested by the consultee within five working days of receipt of
such a request.

3.4

If the discharging authority does not give the notification within the period
specified in sub-paragraph (2) or (3) it (and the consultee, as the case may
be) is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application and
is not entitled to request further information without the prior agreement of
the undertaker.

###### Appeals

4

4.1

Where a person (“ the applicant ”) makes an application to a discharging
authority, the applicant may appeal to the Secretary of State in the event
that—

4.1.a

the discharging authority refuses an application for any consent, agreement or
approval required by—

4.1.a.i

a requirement contained in Part 3 of this Schedule; or

4.1.a.ii

a document referred to in any requirement contained in Part 3 of this
Schedule;

4.1.b

the discharging authority does not determine such an application within the
time period set out in paragraph  2(1) , or grants it subject to conditions;

4.1.c

the discharging authority issues a notice further to sections 60 (control of
noise on construction sites) or 61 (prior consent for work on construction
sites) of the 1974 Act;

4.1.d

on receipt of a request for further information pursuant to paragraph  3  of
this Part of this Schedule, the applicant considers that either the whole or
part of the specified information requested by the discharging authority is
not necessary for consideration of the application; or

4.1.e

on receipt of any further information requested, the discharging authority
notifies the applicant that the information provided is inadequate and
requests additional information which the applicant considers is not necessary
for consideration of the application.

4.2

The appeal process is as follows—

4.2.a

any appeal by the applicant must be made within 42 days of the date of the
notice of the decision or determination, or (where no determination has been
made) the expiry of the time period set out in paragraph 2(1), giving rise to
the appeal referred to in sub-paragraph (1);

4.2.b

the applicant must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
discharging authority and any consultee specified under the relevant
requirement contained in Part 3 of this Schedule;

4.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person to consider the appeal (“ the
appointed person ”) and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the
appointed person and the address to which all correspondence for the attention
of the appointed person should be sent;

4.2.d

the discharging authority and any consultee (if applicable) must submit their
written representations together with any other representations to the
appointed person in respect of the appeal within 20 working days of the start
date specified by the appointed person and must ensure that copies of their
written representations and any other representations as sent to the appointed
person are sent to each other and to the applicant on the day on which they
are submitted to the appointed person;

4.2.e

the applicant must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person within
20 working days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-
paragraph  (d)  above; and

4.2.f

the appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the 20 day
period for counter-submissions under sub-paragraph (e).

4.3

The appointment of the appointed person pursuant to sub-paragraph 4(2)(c) may
be undertaken by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose
instead of by the Secretary of State.

4.4

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to enable the appointed person to consider the appeal the appointed
person must as soon as practicable notify the appeal parties in writing
specifying the further information required, the appeal party from whom the
information is sought, and the date by which the information is to be
submitted.

4.5

Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph (4) must be
provided by the party from whom the information is sought to the appointed
person and to the other appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed
person. The appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised
timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The revised timetable for the
appeal must require submission of written representations to the appointed
person within ten working days of the date specified by the appointed person,
but must otherwise be in accordance with the process and time limits set out
in sub-paragraphs 4(2)(c) to (e).

4.6

On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may—

4.6.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

4.6.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the discharging authority (whether
the appeal relates to that part of it or not),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to the appointed
person in the first instance.

4.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account such written representations as have been sent within the relevant
time limits and in the sole discretion of the appointed person such written
representations as have been sent outside of the relevant time limits.

4.8

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to the appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision
to be made on the merits of the case.

4.9

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for a judicial review.

4.10

If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this Part of this
Schedule, it is deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Part 3 of this
Schedule as if it had been given by the discharging authority. The discharging
authority may confirm any determination given by the appointed person in
identical form in writing, but a failure to give such confirmation (or a
failure to give it in identical form) is not to be taken to affect or
invalidate the effect of the appointed person’s determination.

4.11

Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (12) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the discharging authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person are to be met by the applicant.

4.12

On application by the discharging authority or the applicant, the appointed
person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal and as to the parties
by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In considering whether to make
any such direction and the terms on which it is to be made, the appointed
person must have regard to relevant guidance on the Planning Practice Guidance
website or any official circular or guidance which may from time to time
replace it.

  STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS

Article 8

          (1)       Street subject to street works         (2)       Extent of
works       Unnamed Road Between the reference points 1a and 1b and shaded
Green on sheet 1 of the streets plan Sands Road Between the reference points
1c and 1d and shaded Brown on sheet 1 of the streets plan Private Access
Between the reference points 2a, 2b and 2c and shaded Brown on sheets 1 and 2
of the streets plan Bridlington Road Between the reference points 3a and 3b
and shaded Green on sheets 2 and 3 of the streets plan Gransmoor Road Between
the reference points 4a and 4b and shaded Green on sheets 3 and 4 of the
streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 5a and 5b and shaded
Brown on sheet 4 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference
points 6a and 6b and shaded Brown on sheet 4 of the streets plan Private
Access Between the reference points 7a and 7b and shaded Brown on sheet 4 of
the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 8a and 8b and
shaded Brown on sheets 4 and 5 of the streets plan Lissett Lane Between the
reference points 8c and 8d and shaded Green on sheets 4 and 5 of the streets
plan Private Access Between the reference points 9a and 9b and shaded Brown on
sheet 5 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 10a
and 10b and shaded Brown on sheet 6 of the streets plan Gembling Lane Between
the reference points 11a and 11b and shaded Green on sheet 6 of the streets
plan Old Howe Lane Between the reference points 12a and 12b and shaded Green
on sheets 6 and 7 of the streets plan Main Street Between the reference points
13a and 13b and shaded Green on sheet 7 of the streets plan Private Access
Between the reference points 14a and 14b and shaded Brown on sheet 7 of the
streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 15a and 15b and
shaded Brown on sheet 8 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 16a and 16b and shaded Brown on sheet 8 of the streets plan
Cowslams Lane Between the reference points 16c and 16d and shaded Green on
sheet 8 of the streets plan B1249 Between the reference points 17a and 17b and
shaded Green on sheets 8 and 9 of the streets plan B1249 Between the reference
points 17c and 17d and shaded Green on sheets 8 and 9 of the streets plan
Private Access Between the reference points 18a and 18b and shaded Brown on
sheets 8 and 9 of the streets plan B1249 Between the reference points 18c and
18d and shaded Green on sheets 8 and 9 of the streets plan Private Access
Between the reference points 19a and 19b and shaded Brown on sheet 10 of the
streets plan Rotsea Lane Between the reference points 20a and 20b and shaded
Green on sheet 11 of the streets plan Rotsea Lane Between the reference points
20c and 20d and shaded Green on sheet 11 of the streets plan Private Access At
reference point 20e and shaded Brown on sheet 11 of the streets plan Private
Access Between the reference points 21a and 21b and shaded Brown on sheet 12
of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 22a and 22b
and shaded Brown on sheet 12 of the streets plan Carr Lane Between the
reference points 23a and 23b and shaded Green on sheet 13 of the streets plan
Carr Lane Between the reference points 24a and 24b and shaded Green on sheet
14 of the streets plan Wilfholme Road Between the reference points 25a and 25b
and shaded Green on sheet 14 of the streets plan Beswick Road Between the
reference points 26a and 26b and shaded Green on sheet 15 of the streets plan
Station Road Between the reference points 27a and 27b and shaded Green on
sheet 16 of the streets plan A164 Between the reference points 28a and 28b and
shaded Green on sheet 16 of the streets plan Station Road Between the
reference points 29a and 29b and shaded Green on sheet 16 of the streets plan
A164 Between the reference points 30a and 30b and shaded Green on sheet 17 of
the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 31a and 31b and
shaded Brown on sheet 17 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 32a and 32b and shaded Brown on sheet 17 of the streets plan
Private Access Between the reference points 33a and 33b and shaded Brown on
sheet 18 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 34a
and 34b and shaded Brown on sheet 18 of the streets plan Old Road Between the
reference points 34c and 34d and shaded Green on sheet 18 of the streets plan
Miles Lane Between the reference points 35a and 35b and shaded Green on sheet
19 of the streets plan Miles Lane Between the reference points 35c and 35d and
shaded Green on sheet 19 of the streets plan Miles Lane Between the reference
points 36a and 36b and shaded Green on sheet 19 of the streets plan Rose Lane
Between the reference points 37a and 37b and shaded Green on sheets 19 and 20
of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 38a and 38b
and shaded Brown on sheet 20 of the streets plan A1035 Between the reference
points 39a and 39b and shaded Green on sheet 21 of the streets plan Dogkennel
Lane Between the reference points 40a and 40b and shaded Green on sheet 21 of
the streets plan York Road Between the reference points 41a and 41b and shaded
Green on sheet 22 of the streets plan York Road Between the reference points
41c and 41d and shaded Green on sheet 22 of the streets plan A1079 Between the
reference points 42a and 42b and shaded Green on sheets 22 and 23 of the
streets plan Newbald Road Between the reference points 43a and 43b and shaded
Green on sheet 23 of the streets plan Newbald Road Between the reference
points 43c and 43d and shaded Green on sheet 23 of the streets plan Private
Access Between the reference points 44a and 44b and shaded Brown on sheet 23
of the streets plan B1230 Between the reference points 45a and 45b and shaded
Green on sheets 23 and 24 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 46a and 46b and shaded Brown on sheet 24 of the streets plan
Coppleflat Lane Between the reference points 47a and 47b and shaded Green on
sheet 25 of the streets plan Coppleflat Lane Between the reference points 48a
and 48b and shaded Green on sheet 25 of the streets plan Coppleflat Lane
Between the reference points 49a and 49b and shaded Green on sheets 25 and 26
of the streets plan Coppleflat Lane Between the reference points 50a and 50b
and shaded Green on sheets 25 and 26 of the streets plan A164 Between the
reference points 51a and 51b and shaded Green on sheets 25 and 26 of the
streets plan A164 Between the reference points 51c and 51d and shaded Green on
sheets 25 and 26 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference
points 52a and 52b and shaded Brown on sheet 26 of the streets plan Private
Access Between the reference points 53a and 53b and shaded Brown on sheet 28
of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 54a and 54b
and shaded Brown on sheet 28 of the streets plan A1079 Between the reference
points 55a and 55b and shaded Green on sheet 27 of the streets plan

  STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED OR RESTRICTED

Article 10

          (1)       Public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up
(2)       Extent of temporary stopping up       Unnamed Road Between the
reference points 1a and 1b and shaded Green on sheet 1 of the streets plan
Sands Road Between the reference points 1c and 1d and shaded Brown on sheet 1
of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 2a, 2b and 2c
and shaded Brown on sheets 1 and 2 of the streets plan Bridlington Road
Between the reference points 3a and 3b and shaded Green on sheets 2 and 3 of
the streets plan Gransmoor Road Between the reference points 4a and 4b and
shaded Green on sheets 3 and 4 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 5a and 5b and shaded Brown on sheet 4 of the streets plan
Private Access Between the reference points 6a and 6b and shaded Brown on
sheet 4 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 7a and
7b and shaded Brown on sheet 4 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 8a and 8b and shaded Brown on sheets 4 and 5 of the streets
plan Lissett Lane Between the reference points 8c and 8d and shaded Green on
sheets 4 and 5 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points
9a and 9b and shaded Brown on sheet 5 of the streets plan Private Access
Between the reference points 10a and 10b and shaded Brown on sheet 6 of the
streets plan Gembling Lane Between the reference points 11a and 11b and shaded
Green on sheet 6 of the streets plan Old Howe Lane Between the reference
points 12a and 12b and shaded Green on sheets 6 and 7 of the streets plan Main
Street Between the reference points 13a and 13b and shaded Green on sheet 7 of
the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 14a and 14b and
shaded Brown on sheet 7 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 15a and 15b and shaded Brown on sheet 8 of the streets plan
Private Access Between the reference points 16a and 16b and shaded Brown on
sheet 8 of the streets plan Cowslams Lane Between the reference points 16c and
16d and shaded Green on sheet 8 of the streets plan B1249 Between the
reference points 17a and 17b and shaded Green on sheets 8 and 9 of the streets
plan B1249 Between the reference points 17c and 17d and shaded Green on sheets
8 and 9 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 18a
and 18b and shaded Brown on sheets 8 and 9 of the streets plan B1249 Between
the reference points 18c and 18d and shaded Green on sheets 8 and 9 of the
streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 19a and 19b and
shaded Brown on sheet 10 of the streets plan Rotsea Lane Between the reference
points 20a and 20b and shaded Green on sheet 11 of the streets plan Rotsea
Lane Between the reference points 20c and 20d and shaded Green on sheet 11 of
the streets plan Private Access At reference point 20e and shaded Brown on
sheet 11 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 21a
and 21b and shaded Brown on sheet 12 of the streets plan Private Access
Between the reference points 22a and 22b and shaded Brown on sheet 12 of the
streets plan Carr Lane Between the reference points 23a and 23b and shaded
Green on sheet 13 of the streets plan Carr Lane Between the reference points
24a and 24b and shaded Green on sheet 14 of the streets plan Wilfholme Road
Between the reference points 25a and 25b and shaded Green on sheet 14 of the
streets plan Beswick Road Between the reference points 26a and 26b and shaded
Green on sheet 15 of the streets plan Station Road Between the reference
points 27a and 27b and shaded Green on sheet 16b of the streets plan A164
Between the reference points 28a and 28b and shaded Green on sheet 16b of the
streets plan Station Road Between the reference points 29a and 29b and shaded
Green on sheet 16 of the streets plan A164 Between the reference points 30a
and 30b and shaded Green on sheet 17 of the streets plan Private Access
Between the reference points 31a and 31b and shaded Brown on sheet 17 of the
streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 32a and 32b and
shaded Brown on sheet 17 of the streets plan Private Access Between the
reference points 33a and 33b and shaded Brown on sheet 18 of the streets plan
Private Access Between the reference points 34a and 34b and shaded Brown on
sheet 18 of the streets plan Old Road Between the reference points 34c and 34d
and shaded Green on sheet 18 of the streets plan Miles Lane Between the
reference points 35a and 35b and shaded Green on sheet 19 of the streets plan
Miles Lane Between the reference points 35c and 35d and shaded Green on sheet
19 of the streets plan Miles Lane Between the reference points 36a and 36b and
shaded Green on sheet 19 of the streets plan Rose Lane Between the reference
points 37a and 37b and shaded Green on sheets 19 and 20 of the streets plan
Private Access Between the reference points 38a and 38b and shaded Brown on
sheet 20 of the streets plan A1035 Between the reference points 39a and 39b
and shaded Green on sheet 21 of the streets plan Dogkennel Lane Between the
reference points 40a and 40b and shaded Green on sheet 21 of the streets plan
York Road Between the reference points 41a and 41b and shaded Green on sheet
22 of the streets plan York Road Between the reference points 41c and 41d and
shaded Green on sheet 22 of the streets plan A1079 Between the reference
points 42a and 42b and shaded Green on sheets 22 and 23 of the streets plan
Newbald Road Between the reference points 43a and 43b and shaded Green on
sheet 23 of the streets plan Newbald Road Between the reference points 43c and
43d and shaded Green on sheet 23 of the streets plan Private Access Between
the reference points 44a and 44b and shaded Brown on sheet 23 of the streets
plan B1230 Between the reference points 45a and 45b and shaded Green on sheets
23 and 24 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 46a
and 46b and shaded Brown on sheet 24 of the streets plan Coppleflat Lane
Between the reference points 47a and 47b and shaded Green on sheet 25 of the
streets plan Coppleflat Lane Between the reference points 48a and 48b and
shaded Green on sheet 25 of the streets plan Coppleflat Lane Between the
reference points 49a and 49b and shaded Green on sheets 25 and 26 of the
streets plan Coppleflat Lane Between the reference points 50a and 50b and
shaded Green on sheets 25 and 26 of the streets plan A164 Between the
reference points 51a and 51b and shaded Green on sheets 25 and 26 of the
streets plan A164 Between the reference points 51c and 51d and shaded Green on
sheets 25 and 26 of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference
points 52a and 52b and shaded Brown on sheet 26 of the streets plan Private
Access Between the reference points 53a and 53b and shaded Brown on sheet 28
of the streets plan Private Access Between the reference points 54a and 54b
and shaded Brown on sheet 28 of the streets plan A1079 Between the reference
points 55a and 55b and shaded Green on sheet 27 of the streets plan

  PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE CLOSED OR DIVERTED AND ACCESS LAND

Article 11

##### PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED

          (1)       Public right of way to be temporarily stopped up
(2)       Extent of temporary stopping up       Barmston Footpath No. 4
Between points 1a and 1b as shown dashed on sheet 1 of the public rights of
way plan Barmston Footpath No. 3 Between points 2a and 2b as shown dashed on
sheets 1 and 2 of the public rights of way plan Barmston Footpath No. 2
Between points 3a and 3b as shown dashed on sheet 2 of the public rights of
way plan Foston on the Wolds Footpath No. 10 Between points 4a and 4b as shown
dashed on sheet 6 of the public rights of way plan Foston on the Wolds
Footpath No. 12 Between points 5a and 5b as shown dashed on sheet 7 of the
public rights of way plan Foston on the Wolds Footpath No. 12 Between points
6a and 6b as shown dashed on sheet 8 of the public rights of way plan Foston
on the Wolds Bridleway No. 6 Between points 7a and 7b as shown dashed on sheet
10 of the public rights of way plan Hutton Cranswick Footpath No. 10 Between
points 8a and 8b as shown dashed on sheets 11 and 12 of the public rights of
way plan Watton Footpath No. 18 Between points 9a and 9b as shown dashed on
sheet 12 of the public rights of way plan Watton Bridleway No. 13 Between
points 10a and 10b as shown dashed on sheet 13 of the public rights of way
plan Beswick Bridleway No. 23 Between points 11a and 11b as shown dashed on
sheet 15 of the public rights of way plan Lockington Footpath No. 8 Between
points 12a and 12b as shown dashed on sheet 16a and 16b respectively of the
public rights of way plan Leconfield Footpath No. 1 Between points 13a and 13b
as shown dashed on sheet 17 of the public rights of way plan Leconfield
Bridleway No. 2 Between points 14a and 14b as shown dashed on sheet 17 of the
public rights of way plan Leconfield Footpath No. 7 Between points 15a and 15b
as shown dashed on sheets 17 and 18 of the public rights of way plan
Leconfield Footpath No. 7 Between points 15c and 15d as shown dashed on sheet
18 of the public rights of way plan Leconfield Bridleway No. 9 Between points
16a and 16b as shown dashed on sheet 18 of the public rights of way plan
Leconfield Footpath No. 10 Between points 17a and 17b as shown dashed on sheet
18 of the public rights of way plan Leconfield Footpath No. 10 Between points
17c and 17d as shown dashed on sheet 18 of the public rights of way plan
Leconfield Footpath No. 11 Between points 18a and 18b as shown dashed on sheet
18 of the public rights of way plan Leconfield Bridleway No. 6 Between points
19a and 19b as shown dashed on sheet 18 of the public rights of way plan
Leconfield Bridleway No. 12 Between points 20a and 20b as shown dashed on
sheet 18 of the public rights of way plan Cherry Burton Footpath No. 2 Between
points 21a and 21b as shown dashed on sheet 20 of the public rights of way
plan Cherry Burton Footpath No. 3 Between points 22a and 22b as shown dashed
on sheet 20 of the public rights of way plan Walkington Footpath No. 9 (Moor
Lane) Between points 23a and 23b as shown dashed on sheet 24 of the public
rights of way plan Rowley Footpath No.12 Between points 24a and 24b as shown
dashed on sheets 25 and 26 of the public rights of way plan Rowley Footpath
No.12 Between points 24c and 24d as shown dashed on sheets 26 and 27 of the
public rights of way plan Skidby Footpath No. 16 Between points 25a and 25b as
shown dashed on sheet 26 and 28 of the public rights of way plan Skidby
Footpath No. 16 Between points 25c and 25d as shown dashed on sheet 28 of the
public rights of way plan Skidby Footpath No. 17 Between points 26a and 26b as
shown dashed on sheet 28 of the public rights of way plan Rowley Bridleway No.
13 Between points 27a and 27b as shown dashed on sheet 27 of the public rights
of way plan

##### PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE PERMANENTLY DIVERTED

          (1)       Public right of way to be diverted         (2)
Extent of diversion         (2)       Extent of substitute right of way
Skidby Footpath No. 16 Within area 1 shaded orange on sheet 28 of the public
rights of way plan 602 m Rowley Bridleway No. 13 Between points 27a and 27b
dashed blue on sheet 27 of the public rights of way plan 358 m

##### PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE TEMPORARILY DIVERTED

          (1)       Public right of way to be diverted         (2)
Extent of temporary diversion         (3)       Extent of substitute right of
way       Barmston Footpath No. 4 Between points 1a and 1b as shown dashed on
sheet 1 of the public rights of way plan 244 m

##### ACCESS LAND WHERE PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY MAY BE TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED

          (1)       Access Land subject to temporary prohibition or
restriction of use         (2)       Extent of temporary prohibition or
restriction of use of access land       England Coastal Path Temporarily
suspend access to the area shaded green on the public rights of way plan

  ACCESS TO WORKS

Article 12

          (1)       Location of access         (2)       Description of access
Sands Road Referenced OA_001 and hatched pink on sheet 1 of the access to
works plan Sands Road Referenced AP_002 and shaded blue on sheet 1 of the
access to works plan Bridlington Road Referenced AP_003 and shaded blue on
sheets 2 and 3 of the access to works plan Bridlington Road Referenced AP_040
and shaded blue on sheets 2 and 3 of the access to works plan Bridlington Road
Referenced OA_002 and shaded pink on sheet 3 of the access to works plan
Fisher Lane Referenced OA_003 and shaded pink on sheet 4 of the access to
works plan Lissett Lane Referenced AP_004 and shaded blue on sheets 4 and 5 of
the access to works plan Lissett Lane Referenced OA_004 and hatched pink on
sheets 4 and 5 of the access to works plan Bridlington Road Referenced OA_005
and shaded pink on sheet 5 of the access to works plan Gembling Lane
Referenced OA_027 and shaded pink on sheet 6 of the access to works plan
Gembling Lane Referenced OA_028 and shaded pink on sheet 6 of the access to
works plan Old Howe Lane Referenced AP_005 and shaded blue on sheets 6 and 7
of the access to works plan Old Howe Lane Referenced AP_039 and shaded blue on
sheets 6 and 7 of the access to works plan Main Street Referenced OA_029 and
shaded pink on sheet 7 of the access to works plan Cowslams Lane Referenced
AP_006 and shaded blue on sheet 8 of the access to works plan Cowslams Lane
Referenced OA_006 and hatched pink on sheet 8 of the access to works plan
B1249 Referenced OA_007 and shaded pink on sheets 8 and 9 of the access to
works plan B1249 Referenced AP_007 and shaded blue on sheets 8 and 9 of the
access to works plan B1249 Referenced AP_008 and shaded blue on sheets 8 and 9
of the access to works plan B1249 Referenced OA_008 and hatched pink on sheets
8 and 9 of the access to works plan Private Access Referenced AP_009 and
shaded blue on sheet 10 of the access to works plan Private Access Referenced
OA_009 and hatched pink on sheet 10 of the access to works plan Rotsea Lane
Referenced AP_010 and shaded blue on sheet 11 of the access to works plan
Rotsea Lane Referenced AP_038 and shaded blue on sheet 11 of the access to
works plan Rotsea Lane Referenced OA_010 and hatched pink on sheet 11 of the
access to works plan Rotsea Lane Referenced OA_031 and shaded pink on sheet 11
of the access to works plan Carr Lane Referenced OA_011 and shaded pink on
sheet 13 of the access to works plan Carr Lane Referenced OA_034 and shaded
pink on sheet 13 of the access to works plan Carr Lane Referenced AP_011 and
AP_037 and shaded blue on sheet 14 of the access to works plan Wilfholme Road
Referenced OA_012 and shaded pink on sheet 14 of the access to works plan
Wilfholme Road Referenced OA_013 and shaded pink on sheet 14 of the access to
works plan Wilfholme Road Referenced AP_012 and AP_036 and shaded blue on
sheet 14 of the access to works plan Beswick Road Referenced AP_013 and AP_035
and shaded blue on sheet 15 of the access to works plan Station Road
Referenced OA_015 and shaded pink on sheet 16 of the access to works plan
Station Road Referenced AP_014 and AP_034 and shaded blue on sheet 16 of the
access to works plan Station Road Referenced OA_014 and hatched pink on sheet
16 of the access to works plan Station Road Referenced AP_015 and shaded blue
on sheet 16 of the access to works plan A164 Referenced AP_016 and shaded blue
on sheet 17 of the access to works plan A164 Referenced OA_017 and hatched
pink on sheet 17 of the access to works plan Old Road Referenced AP_017 and
shaded blue on sheet 18 of the access to works plan Miles Lane Referenced
OA_018 and shaded pink on sheet 19 of the access to works plan Miles Lane
Referenced AP_018 and shaded blue on sheet 19 of the access to works plan
Roase Lane Referenced OA_019 and shaded pink on sheets 19 and 20 of the access
to works plan A1035 Referenced AP_020 and AP_032 and shaded blue on sheet 21
of the access to works plan Dogkennel Lane Referenced AP_021 and shaded blue
on sheet 21 of the access to works plan Dogkennel Lane Referenced OA_020 and
hatched pink on sheet 21 of the access to works plan York Road Referenced
AP_022 and shaded blue on sheet 22 of the access to works plan York Road
Referenced OA_021 and hatched pink on sheet 22 of the access to works plan
Killingwoldgraves Lane Referenced OA_022 and shaded pink on sheets 22 and 23
of the access to works plan Newbald Road Referenced AP_023 and AP_024 and
shaded blue on sheet 23 of the access to works plan Newbald Road Referenced
OA_040 and hatched pink on sheet 23 of the access to works plan Coppleflat
Lane Referenced OA_023 and hatched pink on sheet 25 of the access to works
plan Coppleflat Lane Referenced AP_027 and shaded blue on sheet 25 of the
access to works plan Coppleflat Lane Referenced OA_024 and shaded pink on
sheets 25 and 26 of the access to works plan Coppleflat Lane Referenced AP_030
and shaded blue on sheets 25 and 26 of the access to works plan Coppleflat
Lane Referenced OA_025 and hatched pink on sheets 25 and 26 of the access to
works plan Coppleflat Lane Referenced AP_028 and shaded blue on sheets 25 and
26 of the access to works plan A164 Referenced AP_026 and shaded blue on sheet
26 of the access to works plan A1079 Referenced OA_043 and hatched pink on
sheet 27 of the access to works plan A1079 Referenced AP_025 and hatched blue
on sheet 27 of the access to works plan

LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC., MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 21

(1) Number of land shown on land plans (2) Purpose for which rights may be
acquired and restrictions imposed 1 2 2A 3 3A 4 4A 10 11 12 13 18 19 20 21 27
28 29 30 31 32 33 36 37 38 39 40 41 51 52 53 54 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 68
69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 86 87 88 93 94 95 96 106 107 108 109 110 111 126
127 128 129 130 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 146 147 148 149 150 153 155 156
157 158 159 160 161 166 167 168 169 170 171 172 173 174 175 176 177 178 179
180 181 182 183 184 188 189 190 191 194 195 196 199 200 201 211 212 213 214
215 216 223 227 228 233 234 235 238 239 240 241 242 243 244 245 252 253 254
262 263 264 265 266 272 273 274 275 276 277 278 279 280 281 282 285 292 293
294 298 299 300 307 308 309 310 315 316 317 318 335 336 337 338 339 340 341
342 343 344 345 346 347 348 349 350 351 352 353 354 355 356 Rights to install,
retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct,
replace, protect and improve underground electricity cables, jointing bays,
ducting, telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus (including but not
limited to access chambers, manholes and marker posts) and any other works as
necessary together with the right to fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which
may obstruct or interfere with the said cables, telecommunications and other
ancillary apparatus Rights to pass and repass on foot, with or without
vehicles, plant and machinery (including rights to lay and use any temporary
surface) for all purposes in connection with the construction, use,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development Rights to
continuous vertical and lateral support for the authorised development Rights
to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains,
conduits, services, flues and to drain into and manage waterflows in any
drains, watercourses and culverts Rights to install, execute, implement,
retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodlands,
shrubs, hedgerows, seeding, landscaping and other ecological measures together
with the right to maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs, hedgerows,
landscaping and other   ecological measures, the right to pass   and repass on
foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery for all purposes in
connection with the implementation and maintenance of landscaping and
ecological mitigation or enhancement works Rights to install, retain, use,
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and
improve security fencing, gates, boundary treatment, public rights of way and
any other ancillary apparatus and any other works as necessary Restrictions on
erecting buildings or structures, altering ground levels, planting trees or
carrying out operations or actions (including but not limited to blasting and
piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the
rights or damage the authorised development 1 2 2A 3 3A 4 4A Rights to ground
and lay anchor for vessels within the Order land 308 309 310 315 316 317 318
323 330 332 333 335 336 337 338 339 340 341 342 343 344 345 346 347 348 349
350 351 352 353 354 355 356 Rights to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect,
alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve pipes,
ducts, mains, wires, cables, conduits, flues, fibre optic cables and other
conducting media of whatsoever nature Restrictions on erecting buildings or
structures, altering ground levels, planting trees or carrying out operations
or actions (including but not limited to blasting and piling) which may
obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the rights or damage
the authorised development 14 17 25 26 35 45 46 47 56 57 80 84 92 99 100 104
113 114 117 123 134 135 151 163 165 186 187 192 203 206 209 230 237 250 255
258 268 269 290 296 305 Rights to use, maintain and improve a permanent means
of access including visibility splays and bridges Rights to install, retain,
use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace,
protect and improve security fencing, gates, boundary treatment, public rights
of way and any other ancillary apparatus and any other works as necessary
Rights to pass and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and
machinery for all purposes in connection with the construction, use,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development Rights to
install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate
and plant trees, woodlands, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding, landscaping and other
ecological measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and replant
such trees, shrubs, hedgerows, landscaping and other   ecological measures,
the right to pass   and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and
machinery for all purposes in connection with the implementation and
maintenance of landscaping and ecological mitigation or enhancement works
Restrictions on erecting buildings or structures, altering ground levels,
planting trees or carrying out operations or actions (including but not
limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere
with the exercise of the rights 23 25 34 55 91 98 138 152 162 164 185 193 203
206 229 236 247 255 267 287 295 302 Rights to pass and repass on foot, with or
without vehicles, plant and machinery (including rights to lay and use any
temporary surface) for all purposes in connection with the construction, use,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development Rights to
install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve security fencing, gates, boundary
treatment, public rights of way and any other ancillary apparatus and any
other works as necessary Rights to install, execute, implement, retain,
repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodlands, shrubs,
hedgerows, seeding, landscaping and other ecological measures together with
the right to maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs, hedgerows,
landscaping and other  ecological measures, the right to pass  and repass on
foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery for all purposes in
connection with the implementation and maintenance of landscaping and
ecological mitigation or enhancement works Restrictions on erecting buildings
or structures, altering ground levels, planting trees or carrying out
operations or actions (including but not limited to blasting and piling) which
may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the rights 323 330
332 333 Rights to construct, use, maintain and improve a permanent means of
access including visibility splays Rights to pass and repass on foot, with or
without vehicles, plant and machinery (including rights to lay and use any
temporary surface) for all purposes in connection with the construction, use,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development Rights to
install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve pipes, ducts, mains, wires, cables,
conduits, flues, fibre optic cables and other conducting media of whatsoever
nature Rights to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove,
refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve security infrastructure
including cameras, perimeter fencing, fencing, gates and any other security
measures or ancillary apparatus required in order to ensure an appropriate
level of security in respect of the authorised development Rights to install,
execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant
trees, woodlands, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding, landscaping and other ecological
measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and replant such trees,
shrubs, hedgerows, landscaping and other  ecological measures, the right to
pass  and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery for
all purposes in connection with the implementation and maintenance of
landscaping and ecological mitigation or enhancement works Rights to install,
retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct,
replace, protect and improve any boundary treatment, public rights of way and
any other ancillary apparatus and any other works as necessary Restrictions on
erecting buildings or structures, altering ground levels, planting trees or
carrying out operations or actions (including but not limited to blasting and
piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the
rights 340 341 342 343 344 345 346 347 348 349 350 351 352 353 354 355 356
Rights to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve electricity poles, overhead
electricity lines, underground electricity cables, telecommunications and all
equipment and other ancillary apparatus (including but not limited to the use
of scaffolding) and any other works as necessary together with the right to
fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which may obstruct or interfere with the
said poles, lines, telecommunications and other equipment and ancillary
apparatus Restrictions on erecting buildings or structures, altering ground
levels, planting trees or carrying out operations or actions (including but
not limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or
interfere with the exercise of the rights or damage the authorised development

MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 21

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply as respects compensation on the compulsory
purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5—

2.2.a

for the words “land is acquired or taken from” there is substituted the words
“a right or restrictive covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ;
and

2.2.b

for the words “acquired or taken from him” there is substituted the words
“over which the right is exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable”
.

3

3.1

Without limitation to the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

3.2.5A

If—

3.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purpose of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) (powers of entry) of the
1965 Act (as modified by paragraph 7 of Schedule 7 to the Hornsea Four
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023; and

3.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A (counter–notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 10 of Schedule 7
to the Hornsea Four Wind Farm Order 2023 to acquire an interest in the   land;
and

3.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land where it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

4.1

The 1965 Act is to have effect with the modifications necessary to make it
apply to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the
creation of a new right, or to the imposition under this Order of a
restrictive covenant, as it applies to the compulsory acquisition under this
Order of land, so that, in appropriate contexts, references in that Act to
land are read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as
referring to, or as including references to—

4.1.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

4.1.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is to be enforceable.

4.2

Without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (1), Part 1 of the 1965 Act
applies in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right
by the creation of a new right or, in relation to the imposition of a
restriction, with the modifications specified in the following provisions of
this Schedule.

5

For section 7 (measure of compensation in the case of severance) of the 1965
Act there is substituted the following section—

5.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

.

6

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

6.a

section 9(4) (refusal to convey, failure to make title, etc);

6.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (persons without power to sell their interests)
(conveyance of the land or interest);

6.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

6.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are so modified as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

7

Section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is so modified as to secure that,
as from the date on which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat
in respect of any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of
entry required by subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory
acquisition under article 21 (compulsory acquisition of rights etc.), it has
power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent
conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing
that restrictive covenant (which is deemed for this purpose to have been
created on the date of service of the notice); and sections 11A (powers of
entry: further notices of entry), 11B (counter-notice requiring possession to
be taken on specified date), 12 (unauthorised entry) and 13 (refusal to give
possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act is modified
correspondingly.

8

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

9

Section 22 (interest omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 26(3)  is so modified as to enable the acquiring authority, in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired or enforce the restrictive
covenant imposed, subject to compliance with that section as respects
compensation.

10

For Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act substitute—

COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND

########### Introduction

10.1

10.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority  serves  a notice to treat
in respect of a right over, or restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or
part of a house, building or factory and have not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act as
applied by article 23  (application of the 1981 Act)  of the Hornsea Four
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023 in respect of the land to which the notice to
treat relates.

10.1.2

But see article 25(3) (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Hornsea Four
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only
from this Schedule.

10.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

########### Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

10.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the authority to purchase the owner’s
interest in the house, building or factory.

10.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

########### Response to counter-notice

10.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

10.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

10.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

10.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

10.6

The authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

10.7

If the authority decide to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal they
must do so within the decision period.

10.8

If the authority do not serve notice of a decision within the decision period
they are to be treated as if they had served notice of a decision to withdraw
the notice to treat at the end of that period.

10.9

If the authority serve notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice, the
compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

########### Determination by the Upper Tribunal

10.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

10.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

10.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

10.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

10.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

10.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

10.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

10.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
authority ought to be required to take.

10.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

10.14

10.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the authority may at any
time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the Upper
Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to treat in relation to
that land.

10.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraw the notice to treat under this paragraph
they must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any
loss or expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

10.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 28

          (1)       Area         (2)       Number of land shown on land plans
(3)       Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken       East
Riding of Yorkshire 5 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for
Work Nos. 5 and 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 6 Temporary use for access to
facilitate construction for Work Nos. 5 and 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 6A
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work Nos. 5 and 6 East
Riding of Yorkshire 7 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for
Work Nos. 5 and 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 8 Temporary use for access to
facilitate construction for Work Nos. 5 and 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 9
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work Nos. 5 and 6 East
Riding of Yorkshire 15 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for
Work Nos. 5 and 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 16 Temporary use for access to
facilitate construction for Work Nos. 5 and 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 22
Temporary use (including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 24 Temporary use
(including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate construction for
Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 42 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 43 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 44
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 48 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 49 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 50 Temporary use
(including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate construction for
Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 67 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 79 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 81
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 82 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 83 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 85 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 89
Temporary use (including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 90 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 97
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 101 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 102 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 103 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 105
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 112 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 115 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 116 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 118
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 119 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 120 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 121 Temporary use
(including access and bridge inspection, monitoring, maintenance and
improvements) to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of
Yorkshire 122 Temporary use (including access and bridge inspection,
monitoring, maintenance and improvements) to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 124 Temporary use (including access and bridge
inspection, monitoring, maintenance and improvements) to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 125 Temporary use
(including access and bridge inspection, monitoring, maintenance and
improvements) to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of
Yorkshire 131 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No.
6 East Riding of Yorkshire 132 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 133 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 136
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 137 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 154 Temporary use (including for logistics
compound) to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire
197 Temporary use (including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 198 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 202
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 204 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 205 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 207 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 208
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 210 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 217 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 218 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 219
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 220 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 221 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 222 Temporary use
(including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate construction for
Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 224 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 225 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 226
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 231 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 232 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 246 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 248
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 249 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 251 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 256 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 257
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 259 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 260 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 261 Temporary use
(including for logistics compound) to facilitate construction for Work No. 6
East Riding of Yorkshire 270 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 271 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 286
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 288 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 289 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 291 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 297
Temporary use (including for logistics compound) to facilitate construction
for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 301 Temporary use for access to
facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 303 Temporary
use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of
Yorkshire 304 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No.
6 East Riding of Yorkshire 306 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 311 Temporary use for
access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 312
Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work No. 6 East Riding
of Yorkshire 313 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 314 Temporary use for access to facilitate
construction for Work No. 6 East Riding of Yorkshire 319 Temporary use
(including for access and logistics compound) to facilitate construction for
Work Nos. 6, 7, 8 and 10 East Riding of Yorkshire 321 Temporary use for access
to facilitate construction for Work Nos. 6, 7, 8 and 10 East Riding of
Yorkshire 324 Temporary use for access to facilitate construction for Work
Nos. 6, 7, 8 and 10 East Riding of Yorkshire 325 Temporary use for access to
facilitate construction for Work Nos. 6, 7, 8 and 10

PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Article 44

##### PROTECTION FOR ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS

###### Application

1

For the protection of the affected undertakers referred to in this Part of
this Schedule (save for National Grid which is protected by Part 3A and 3B of
this Schedule, Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 1 Projco Limited and
Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 2 Projco Limited which is protected by
Part 7 of this Schedule and Northern Powergrid which is protected by   Part 9
of this Schedule) the following provisions must, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the affected undertaking concerned, have
effect.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ affected undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
(electricity supply) of the 1989 Act; a gas transporter within the meaning of
Part 1 (gas supply) of the Gas Act 1986 ; a water undertaker within the
meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991 ; a sewerage undertaker within the
meaning of Part 1 (preliminary) of the Water Industry Act 1991, for the area
of the authorised development but, for the avoidance of doubt, does not
include the undertakers specified in  Part 3A or 3B, Part 7 or Part 9  of this
Schedule, and in relation to any apparatus, means the undertaker to whom it
belongs or by whom it is maintained; “ alternative apparatus ” means
alternative apparatus adequate to enable the affected undertaker in question
to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than
previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an electricity undertaker,
electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the 1989 Act), belonging to
or maintained by that affected undertaker; in the case of a gas undertaker,
any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by a gas
transporter for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of a water undertaker—
mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that affected
undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and any water mains or service
pipes (or part of a water main or service pipe) that is the subject of an
agreement to adopt made under section 51A (agreements to adopt water main or
service pipe at future date) of the Water Industry Act 1991; in the case of a
sewerage undertaker— any drain or works vested in the affected undertaker in
accordance with the Water Industry Act 1991; and any sewer which is so vested
or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4)
(adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt
made under section 104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewerage disposal
works, at future date) of that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal main
(within the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or
sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; and “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land.

###### Precedence of the 1991 Act in respect of apparatus in the streets

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the affected undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### No acquisition etc. except by agreement

4

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

5

5.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule and any right
of an affected undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker in
question.

5.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any
apparatus placed in that land, it must give to the affected undertaker in
question written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an affected
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the affected undertaker the
necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus
in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that
apparatus.

5.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the affected undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

5.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the affected undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 39 (arbitration).

5.5

The affected undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to
be provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 39 (arbitration) and after the grant to the affected
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

5.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the affected undertaker in question that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the affected undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker.

5.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

6

6.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to an affected undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and the affected undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 39 (arbitration).

6.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the affected undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that affected undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

7

7.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works of the type
referred to in paragraph 5 that are near to, or will or may affect, any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 5, the undertaker must submit to the affected undertaker in question
a plan, section and description of the works to be executed.

7.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
the affected undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of
the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the affected undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

7.3

Any requirements made by an affected undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

7.4

If an affected undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 6 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had
been required by the undertaker under   paragraph 5  .

7.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

7.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the affected undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

8

8.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to an affected undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that
affected undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new
apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any such
works as are referred to in paragraph 5.

8.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal.

8.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

8.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

8.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  39  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the affected undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

8.4

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (3) —

8.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

8.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

8.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an affected
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the affected
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents
that benefit.

###### Expenses and costs

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 5, any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of an affected undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any affected
undertaker, the undertaker must—

9.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that affected undertaker in
making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

9.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that affected undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the affected undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

9.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an affected undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

9.3

An affected undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, shall have the
sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

10

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an affected
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### PROTECTION FOR OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

1

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator, have effect.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ conduit system ” has the same meaning as in the electronic communications
code and references to providing a conduit system is construed in accordance
with paragraph 1(3A) of that code; “ electronic communications apparatus ” has
the same meaning as in the electronic communications code; “ the electronic
communications code ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the
2003 Act; “ electronic communications code network ” means— so much of an
electronic communications network or conduit system provided by an electronic
communications code operator as is not excluded from the application of the
electronic communications code by a direction under section 106 (application
of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and an electronic
communications network which the Secretary of State is providing or proposing
to provide; “ electronic communications code operator ” means a person in
whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a direction under
section 106 of the 2003 Act; and “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

3

The exercise of the powers of article 30 (statutory undertakers) are subject
to Part 10 of Schedule 3A (the electronic communications code) to the 2003
Act.

4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or their construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

4.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works, or
other property of an operator); or

4.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator, the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the
operator in making good such damage or restoring the supply and must—

4.1.b.i

make reasonable compensation to an operator for loss sustained by it; and

4.1.b.ii

indemnify an operator against claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages and
expenses which may be made or taken against, or recovered from, or incurred
by, an operator by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

4.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

4.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand may be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent,
shall have the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

4.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this
paragraph must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 39
(arbitration).

5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

5.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PLC AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER AND NATIONAL GRID GAS PLC AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### PART 3A - NATIONAL GRID ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PLC

####### Application

1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

####### Interpretation

2

In this Part 3A of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means
any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity Act 1989,
belonging to or maintained by National Grid together with any replacement
apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that
becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of
transmission, distribution and/or supply and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or must be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ authorised development ” has the same meaning as in article 2
(interpretation) of this Order (unless otherwise specified) and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule must include the use and maintenance of
the authorised development and construction of any works authorised by this
Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme
” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any)
for a ground subsidence event; “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for
monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be
subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in
which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring
activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall
require the undertaker to submit for National Grid’s approval a ground
mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence
identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring
scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme
as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land;
“maintain” and “maintenance” shall include the ability and right to do any of
the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of
National Grid including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or
remove the apparatus; “ National Grid ” means National Grid Electricity
Transmission PLC (Company No. 2366977) whose registered office is at 1-3
Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor as a licence holder within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; “plan” or “plans” include all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed; and “ specified works ” means any of the authorised
development or activities (including onshore site preparation works,
monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection of construction
plant and equipment) undertaken in association with the authorised development
which— will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any
direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the
undertaker under paragraph 7 or otherwise; may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 7 or otherwise; and/or includes in relation to any electricity
apparatus any activity that is referred to in development near overhead lines
EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Lines.”

3

Except for paragraphs 4  (apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to
temporary closure) , 9 (retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as
electricity undertaker), 10 (expenses) and 11 (indemnity) which must apply in
respect of the exercise of all or any powers under this Order affecting the
rights and apparatus of National Grid, this Schedule does not apply to
apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and
National Grid are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

####### Apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to temporary closure

4

4.1

Where any public right of way is stopped up under article 11 (closure and
diversion of public rights of way and access land), if National Grid has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid must be
entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the closure and the undertaker must grant to National Grid,
or must procure the granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it
prior to the closure of any such street or highway but nothing in this
paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or National Grid to require the
removal of that apparatus under paragraph 7 or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under
paragraph 9.

4.2

Notwithstanding the temporary closure under the powers of article 11 (closure
and diversion of public rights of way and access land), National Grid must be
at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street
and/or to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such
street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain
any apparatus which at the time of the closure or diversion was in that
street.

####### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 16 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus without the written consent of
National Grid which must not unreasonably be withheld.

####### Acquisition of land

6

6.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to this Order, the undertaker must not
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land or apparatus
or appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any easement,
other interest or right and/or apparatus of National Grid otherwise than by
agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld).

6.2

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus (including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by National Grid and/or other enactments relied upon by National
Grid as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the
provisions in this Schedule shall prevail.

6.3

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 9 or any
other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

####### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any Order land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works comprised in the authorised
development in, on, under or over any land purchased, held, appropriated or
used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus
placed in that land, it must give to National Grid 56 days’ advance written
notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of
the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of
the powers conferred by this Order National Grid reasonably needs to remove
any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3),
secure any necessary consents for the alternative apparatus and afford to
National Grid to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 8(1) below)
the necessary facilities and rights—

7.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

7.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

7.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the grant to National Grid of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

####### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and
rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to National Grid
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject the matter must be referred to arbitration under paragraph 31
(arbitration) of this Part 3 and the arbitrator must make such provision for
the payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to
the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case. In respect of the appointment of an arbitrator under this
sub-paragraph (2) article 39 (arbitration) of this Order applies.

####### Retained apparatus: Protection of National Grid as Electricity Undertaker

9

9.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works, the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
assets.

9.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within—

9.2.a

15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or

9.2.b

involve embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus,

the plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include
a method statement and describe—

9.2.a

the exact position of the works;

9.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

9.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

9.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

9.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes;

9.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues; and

9.2.h

a ground monitoring scheme, where required.

9.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph (2)
include a method statement describing—

9.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

9.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

9.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

9.3.d

details of cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

9.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of the cable route;

9.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the cable,
including frequency and method of access;

9.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

9.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to and including 26 tonnes in weight.

9.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraph (1),  (2)
or (3) apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so
submitted.

9.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (1), (2), or (3)—

9.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (6) or (8); and

9.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

9.6

In relation to a work to which sub-paragraph (1), (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

9.7

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph (2),
(3) or (6) as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5), (6), (8)
and/or (9) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

9.8

Where National Grid requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified
works for which protective works are required and National Grid must give
notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of
submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

9.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs (1) to (3) and (6) to (7) shall apply as if the
removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph
7(2).

9.10

Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing
the execution of any specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph
shall apply to and in respect of the new plan.

9.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8)
insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances; and comply with
sub-paragraph (12) at all times.

9.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under this Order, the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for development near
overhead lines ENA TA 43-8 and the Health and Safety Executive’s guidance note
6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Lines”.

####### Expenses

10

10.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised
invoice or claim from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably
anticipated within the following three months or incurred by National Grid in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new
apparatus or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any such works as are referred to in this Part of this Schedule
including without limitation—

10.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

10.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 7(3); or

10.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

10.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

10.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

10.1.d

the approval of plans;

10.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

10.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

10.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 39 (arbitration) of this Order to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

####### Indemnity

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
him) in the course of carrying out such works (including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works), any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised development) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

11.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party other than arising from any default by
National Grid.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid as a consequence of the
authorised development or under its supervision will not (unless sub-paragraph
(3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this sub-paragraph (2) where the undertaker fails to carry out and execute the
works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman like
manner or in a manner that does not accord with the approved plan or as
otherwise agreed between the undertaker and National Grid.

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

11.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

11.3.b

any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Part of
this Schedule carried out by National Grid as an assignee, transferee or
lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156
of the 2008 Act or article 5 (benefit of the Order) of the Order subject to
the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any works
yet to be executed and not falling within this sub-paragraph 11(3)(b) will be
subject to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including this
paragraph 11 in respect of such new apparatus; and/or

11.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable.

11.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand must
be made, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme without first consulting the undertaker and considering
its representations.

####### Enactments and agreements

12

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between the undertaker and National Grid,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

####### Co-operation

13

13.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal
of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9, National Grid shall
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid shall use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

13.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever National Grid’s consent, agreement or
approval to is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by National Grid, it must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

####### Access

14

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 6 or
the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is materially
obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of access to
such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the apparatus
no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

####### Arbitration

15

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 7(2), 7(4), 8(1) and
9 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National Grid
under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 39 (arbitration).

####### Notices

16

The plans submitted to National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph
9(1) must be sent to National Grid LSBUD at  https://lsbud.co.uk / or
assetprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

###### PART 3B - NATIONAL GRID GAS PLC

####### Application

17

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

####### Interpretation

18

In this Part 3B of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means
any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by National
Grid for the purposes of gas supply, together with any replacement apparatus
and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that becomes
operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of transmission,
distribution and/or supply and includes any structure in which apparatus is or
must be lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus; “ authorised
development ” has the same meaning as in article 2 (interpretation) of this
Order (unless otherwise specified) and for the purposes of this Part of this
Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the authorised development and
construction of any works authorised by this Schedule; “ functions ” includes
powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by
National Grid (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)
setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event; “
ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence
which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the
extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be
monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the undertaker to submit
for National Grid’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence
event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities
set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described
in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in”
in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes
a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along
or upon such land; “maintain” and “maintenance” shall include the ability and
right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative
apparatus of National Grid including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect,
renew or remove the apparatus; “ National Grid ” means National Grid Gas PLC
(Company No. 200600) whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N
5EH, or any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the
Gas Act 1986; “ Network Code ” means the network code prepared by National
Grid as from time to time modified pursuant to the licence granted, or treated
as granted, to it from time to time under the Gas Act 1986 as amended, in
respect of its national transmission system; “ Network Code Claims ” means any
claim made against National Grid by any person under the Network Code arising
out of or in connection with any failure by National Grid to make gas
available for off take at, or a failure to accept gas tendered for delivery
from, any entry point to or exit point from the National Grid network as a
result of the authorised works or any costs and/or expenses incurred by
National Grid as a result of or in connection with, it taking action
(including purchase or buy back of capacity) for the purpose of managing
constraint or potential constraint on the National Grid Network which may
arise as a direct result of the authorised works; “plan” or “plans” include
all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed; and “ specified works ” means any of the authorised
development or activities (including onshore site preparation works,
monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection of construction
plant and equipment) undertaken in association with the authorised development
which— will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any
direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the
undertaker under paragraph 23 or otherwise; may in any way adversely affect
any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker
under paragraph 23 or otherwise; and/or includes in relation to any gas
apparatus any of the activities that are referred to in paragraph 8 of
T/SP/SSW/22 (National Grid’s policies for safe working in proximity to gas
apparatus “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of National Grid,
High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation requirements for third
parties T/SP/SSW/22”.

19

Except for paragraphs 20 (apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to
temporary closure), 25 (retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as gas
undertaker), 26 (expenses) and 27 (indemnity) which must apply in respect of
the exercise of all or any powers under this Order affecting the rights and
apparatus of National Grid, this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in
respect of which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

####### Apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to temporary closure

20

20.1

Where any public right of way is closed under article 11 (closure and
diversion of public rights of way and access land), if National Grid has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid must be
entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the closure and the undertaker must grant to National Grid,
or must procure the granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it
prior to the closure of any such street or highway but nothing in this
paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or National Grid to require the
removal of that apparatus under paragraph 23 or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under
paragraph 25.

20.2

Notwithstanding the temporary closure under the powers of article 11 (closure
and diversion of public rights of way and access land), National Grid must be
at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street
and/or to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such
street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain
any apparatus which at the time of the closure or diversion was in that
street.

####### Protective works to buildings

21

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 16 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus without the written consent of
National Grid which must not unreasonably be withheld.

####### Acquisition of land

22

22.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to this Order, the undertaker must not
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land or apparatus
or appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any easement,
other interest or right and/or apparatus of National Grid otherwise than by
agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld).

22.2

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus (including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by National Grid and/or other enactments relied upon by National
Grid as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the
provisions in this Schedule shall prevail.

22.3

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 23 or any
other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

####### Removal of apparatus

23

23.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possess temporarily any Order land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

23.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works comprised in the authorised
development in, on, under or over any land purchased, held, appropriated or
used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus
placed in that land, it must give to National Grid 56 days’ advance written
notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of
the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of
the powers conferred by this Order National Grid reasonably needs to remove
any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3),
secure any necessary consents for the alternative apparatus and afford to
National Grid to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 24(1) below)
the necessary facilities and rights—

23.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

23.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

23.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph  ...(2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part
of such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

23.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

23.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the grant to National Grid of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph  ...(2) or
...(3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into
operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of
this Schedule.

####### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

24

24.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

24.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
National Grid under sub-paragraph  ...(1) above in respect of any alternative
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and
rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to National Grid
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject the matter must be referred to arbitration under paragraph 31
(arbitration) and the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of
compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator
to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular
case. In respect of the appointment of an arbitrator under this sub-paragraph
...(2) article 39 (arbitration) of this Order must apply.

####### Retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as Gas Undertaker

25

25.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and, if reasonably required by
National Grid, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

25.2

The plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph  ...(1) must
include a method statement and describe—

25.2.a

the exact position of the works;

25.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

25.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

25.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

25.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

25.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

25.3

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs  ...(1) and
(2) apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so
submitted.

25.4

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (3)—

25.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5) or (7); and

25.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

25.5

In relation to a work to which sub-paragraphs  ...(1) and/or (2) apply,
National Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

25.6

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraphs  ...(1) and (2) or as relevant sub-
paragraph (5), as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5), (7) and/or
(8) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

25.7

Where National Grid requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified
works for which protective works are required and National Grid must give
notice of its requirement for such protective works within 42 days of the date
of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

25.8

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph (5) or (7) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 17 to 19 and 22 to 23 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 23(2).

25.9

Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing
the execution of any specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will
apply to and in respect of the new plan.

25.10

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  ...(1) where
it needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that
case it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable
and a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7)
insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances; and comply with
sub-paragraph (11) at all times.

25.11

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under this Order the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for safe working in
proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of
National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation
requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22”and the Health and Safety
Executive’s HS(~G)47 Avoiding Danger from underground services”.

25.12

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker shall implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that National Grid retains the right
to carry out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of
its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 26.

####### Expenses

26

26.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised
invoice or claim from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably
anticipated within the following three months or incurred by National Grid in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new
apparatus or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any such works as are referred to in this Part of this Schedule
including without limitation—

26.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

26.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 23(3); or

26.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

26.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

26.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

26.1.d

the approval of plans;

26.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

26.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

26.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  ...(1) the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

26.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

26.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

26.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 39 (arbitration) of this Order to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph  ...(1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

26.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  ...(3)—

26.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

26.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

26.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  ...(1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

####### Indemnity

27

27.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
him) in the course of carrying out such works (including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works), any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised development) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

27.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

27.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party and including any Network Code Claims
other than arising from any default by National Grid.

27.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid as a consequence of the
authorised development or under its supervision will not (unless sub-paragraph
(3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this sub-paragraph (2) where the undertaker fails to carry out and execute the
works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman like
manner or in a manner that does not accord with the approved plan or as
otherwise agreed between the undertaker and National Grid.

27.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

27.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

27.3.b

any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Part of
this Schedule carried out by National Grid as an assignee, transferee or
lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156
of the 2008 Act or article 5 (benefit of the Order) of the Order subject to
the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any works
yet to be executed and not falling within this sub-paragraph (3)(b) will be
subject to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including this
paragraph 11 in respect of such new apparatus; and/or

27.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable.

27.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand must
be made, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme without first consulting the undertaker and considering
its representations.

####### Enactments and agreements

28

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between the undertaker and National Grid,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

####### Co-operation

29

29.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal
of apparatus under paragraph 23(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 25, National Grid shall
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid shall use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

29.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever National Grid’s consent, agreement or
approval to is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by National Grid, it must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

####### Access

30

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 22 or
the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is materially
obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of access to
such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the apparatus
no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

####### Arbitration

31

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 23(2), 23(4), 24(1)
and 25 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 39 (arbitration).

####### Notices

32

The plans submitted to National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph
25(1) must be sent to National Grid LSBUD at  https://lsbud.co.uk / or
assetprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### PROTECTION OF RAILWAY INTERESTS

1

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail and, in the case of
paragraph 16 of this Part of this Schedule any other person on whom rights or
obligations are conferred by that paragraph.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ asset protection agreement ” means an agreement to regulate the construction
and maintenance of the specified work in a form prescribed from time to time
by Network Rail; “ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and
reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings;
“ the engineer ” means an engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes
of this Order; “ network licence ” means the network licence, as the same is
amended from time to time, granted to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited by
the Secretary of State in exercise of their powers under section 8 (licences)
of the Railways Act l993 ; “ Network Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited (company number 02904587, whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt
Street, London, NW1 2DN) and any associated company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited which holds property for railway purposes, and for the
purpose of this definition “ associated company ” means any company which is
(within the meaning of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006  the holding
company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited or another subsidiary of the holding company of Network
Rail Infrastructure Limited and any successor to Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited’s railway undertaking; “ plans ” includes sections, designs, design
data, software, drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations,
descriptions (including descriptions of methods of construction), staging
proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any
proposed occupation of railway property; “ railway operational procedures ”
means procedures specified under any access agreement (as defined in the
Railways Act 1993) or station lease; “ railway property ” means any railway
belonging to Network Rail and— any station, land, works, apparatus and
equipment belonging to Network Rail or connected with any such railway; and
any easement or other property interest held or used by Network Rail or a
tenant or licensee of Network Rail for the purposes of such railway or works,
apparatus or equipment; “ regulatory consents ” means any consent or approval
required under— the Railways Act 1993; the network licence; and/or any other
relevant statutory or regulatory provisions; by either the Office of Rail and
Road or the Secretary of State for Transport or any other competent body
including change procedures and any other consents, approvals of any access or
beneficiary that may be required in relation to the authorised development; “
specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised development as is
situated upon, across, under, over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way
adversely affect, railway property and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes
the maintenance of such works under the powers conferred by article 4   (power
to maintain the authorised project)   in respect of such works.

3

3.1

Where under this Part of this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its
consent or approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

3.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

3.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

3.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development pursuant to this Order.

4

4.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by—

4.1.a

article 3   (development consent etc. granted by this Order) ;

4.1.b

article 4 (power to maintain the authorised project);

4.1.c

article 15 (discharge of water);

4.1.d

article 17 (authority to survey and investigate the land onshore);

4.1.e

article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land);

4.1.f

article 21 (compulsory acquisition of rights etc);

4.1.g

article 22 (private rights);

4.1.h

article 24 (statutory authority to override easements and other rights);

4.1.i

article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only);

4.1.j

article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project);

4.1.k

article 29 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised project);

4.1.l

article 30 (statutory undertakers);

4.1.m

article 36 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows);

4.1.n

article 37 (trees subject to tree preservation orders);

4.1.o

the powers conferred by section 11(3) (power of entry) of the 1965 Act;

4.1.p

the powers conferred by section 203 (power to override easements and rights)
of the Housing and Planning Act 2016;

4.1.q

the powers conferred by section 172 (right to enter and survey land) of the
Housing and Planning Act 2016;

4.1.r

any powers  ... in respect of the temporary possession of land under the
Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017;

in respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with
the consent of Network Rail.

4.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

4.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272
of the 1990 Act, article 22 (private rights), article 24   (statutory
authority to override easements and other rights)   or article  30  (statutory
undertakers), in relation to any right of access of Network Rail to railway
property, but such right of access may be diverted with the consent of Network
Rail.

4.4

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or
acquire new rights over, or seek to impose any restrictive covenants over, any
railway property, or extinguish any existing rights of Network Rail in respect
of any third party property, except with the consent of Network Rail.

4.5

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order do anything which would
result in railway property being incapable of being used or maintained or
which would affect the safe running of trains on the railway.

4.6

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions but it shall never be unreasonable to withhold consent
for reasons of operational or railway safety (such matters to be in Network
Rail’s absolute discretion).

4.7

The undertaker must enter into an asset protection agreement prior to the
carrying out of any specified work.

5

5.1

The undertaker must not submit the construction traffic management plan to the
relevant planning authority in accordance with requirement 19 (construction
traffic management plan) without having first obtained the written approval of
Network Rail in respect of all provisions relating to Cranswick Level
Crossing, Driffield Level Crossing and safety briefings for HGV drivers on the
safe use of level crossings affected by the authorised project in accordance
with sub-paragraph (2).

5.2

The undertaker must provide Network Rail with a draft of the construction
traffic management plan for approval and Network Rail must within a period of
28 days beginning with the date on which the draft construction traffic
management plan is received by Network Rail and acting reasonably serve
written notice on the undertaker confirming that—

5.2.a

the draft construction traffic management plan is approved; or

5.2.b

the draft construction traffic management plan is approved subject to
reasonable amendments as required by Network Rail; or

5.2.c

the draft construction traffic management plan is not approved and the reason
for the non-approval; or

5.2.d

that further information is required in order for Network Rail to make its
determination (in which case this paragraph 5(2) must apply to such further
information from the date of its receipt by Network Rail).

5.3

In the event that Network Rail fails to serve written notice in accordance
with paragraph 5 (2)  within 28 days of receipt Network Rail is deemed to have
served a notice pursuant to paragraph 5(2)(a).

5.4

The undertaker must include any reasonable amendments which are required by
Network Rail and notified to the undertaker by Network Rail in the notice
given pursuant to paragraph 5(2)(b) in the draft construction traffic
management plan it submits to the relevant planning authority in accordance
with requirement 19 (construction traffic management plan) and the undertaker
must not submit any such written details that relate to Cranswick Level
Crossing, Driffield Level Crossing and/or safety briefings for HGV drivers on
the safe use of level crossings affected by the authorised project to the
relevant planning authority which have not been approved by Network Rail in
accordance with paragraphs 5(2) or 5(3).

5.5

Each notice and all other information required to be sent to Network Rail
under the terms of this paragraph  5  must—

5.5.a

be sent to the Company Secretary and General Counsel at Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited, 1 Eversholt Street, London, NW1 2DN via Royal Mail
plc’s special delivery service (or if this service is no longer being provided
an appropriate recorded delivery postal service) and marked for the attention
of the Level Crossing Manager; and

5.5.b

contain a clear statement on its front page that Network Rail must respond
within 28 days of receipt.

5.6

In the event that any subsequent changes are made to the construction traffic
management plan following consultation with Network Rail, in so far as such
changes impact on railway property, the undertaker must not submit any such
written details to the relevant planning authorities or finalise any updates
to the construction traffic management plan without further consultation with
Network Rail.

6

6.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration.

6.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
intimated their disapproval of those plans and the grounds of such disapproval
the undertaker may serve upon the engineer written notice requiring the
engineer to intimate approval or disapproval within a further period of 28
days beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives written notice
from the undertaker. If by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has
not intimated approval or disapproval, the engineer shall be deemed to have
approved the plans as submitted.

6.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
without unnecessary delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of
the undertaker in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the undertaker.

6.4

When signifying their approval of the plans the engineer may specify any
protective works (whether temporary or permanent) which in the engineer’s
opinion should be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a
specified work to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the
continuation of safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail
or the services of operators using the same (including any relocation de-
commissioning and removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a
specified work and the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by
the specified works), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary
for those purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker,
if Network Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at
the expense of the undertaker in either case without unnecessary delay and the
undertaker must not commence the construction of the specified works until the
engineer has notified the undertaker that the protective works have been
completed to their reasonable satisfaction.

7

7.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph  6(4)  must, when commenced, be constructed—

7.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph 6;

7.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

7.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

7.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

7.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction
shall be caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence of the construction
of a specified work, the undertaker must, notwithstanding any such approval
make good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to
which Network Rail may be put and compensation for any loss which it may
sustain by reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

7.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule imposes any liability on the undertaker
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of Network Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any
liability on Network Rail with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss
attributable to the negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors
or agents.

8

The undertaker must—

8.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

8.b

supply the engineer with all such information as they may reasonably require
with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

9

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part of this Schedule during their construction and must supply the undertaker
with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works
or the method of constructing them.

10

10.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction or completion of a
specified work in order to ensure the safety of railway property or the
continued safe operation of the railway of Network Rail, such alterations and
additions may be carried out by Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the
undertaker 56 days’ notice (or in the event of an emergency or safety critical
issue such notice as is reasonable in the circumstances) of its intention to
carry out such alterations or additions (which must be specified in the
notice), the undertaker must pay to Network Rail the reasonable cost of those
alterations or additions including, in respect of any such alterations and
additions as are to be permanent, a capitalised sum representing the increase
of the costs which may be expected to be reasonably incurred by Network Rail
in maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing any such alterations or
additions.

10.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction
of that part of the specified work and the undertaker must, notwithstanding
any such approval of a specified work under paragraph 6(3), pay to Network
Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation
for any loss which it may suffer by reason of the execution by Network Rail of
that specified work.

10.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 11(a) provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

10.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

11

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

11.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph 6(3) or in constructing any protective works under the
provisions of paragraph 6(4) including, in respect of any permanent protective
works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and renewing
those works;

11.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work;

11.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, watch-persons and other persons whom it shall be reasonably
necessary to appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway
property and for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable,
interference, obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or
failure of a specified work;

11.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or from the substitution or diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

11.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

12

12.1

In this paragraph—

“ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph (2), electromagnetic interference with
Network Rail’s apparatus generated by the operation of the authorised
development where such interference is of a level which adversely affects the
safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and “ Network Rail’s apparatus ”
means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or equipment (whether or not
modified or installed as part of the authorised development) which are owned
or used by Network Rail for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic, telephonic, electric, electronic
or other like means of signalling or other communications.

12.2

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph 6(1) for the relevant part of the authorised
development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been given notice in
writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to make such
change).

12.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take all measures necessary to
prevent EMI and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

12.4

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph (3)—

12.4.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before
and after formal submission of plans under paragraph 6(1)) in order to
identify all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate
them;

12.4.b

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph  (a) ; and

12.4.c

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a).

12.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph 6(1) has effect subject to the   sub-paragraphs in paragraph 6 .

12.6

Prior to the commencement of operation of the authorised development the
undertaker shall test the use of the authorised development in a manner that
shall first have been agreed with Network Rail and if, notwithstanding any
measures adopted pursuant to sub-paragraph (3), the testing of the authorised
development causes EMI then the undertaker must immediately upon receipt of
notification by Network Rail of such EMI either in writing or communicated
orally (such oral communication to be confirmed in writing as soon as
reasonably practicable after it has been issued) forthwith cease to use (or
procure the cessation of use of) the undertaker’s apparatus causing such EMI
until all measures necessary have been taken to remedy such EMI by way of
modification to the source of such EMI or (in the circumstances, and subject
to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph  (5) ) to Network Rail’s apparatus.

12.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

12.7.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

12.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

12.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI; and

12.7.d

the undertaker shall not allow the use or operation of the authorised
development in a manner that has caused or will cause EMI until measures have
been taken in accordance with this paragraph to prevent EMI occurring.

12.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs  (5)  or  (6) —

12.8.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

12.8.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with paragraph 7.

12.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
16(1) applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses suffered
by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph
(including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of proposals,
approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and facilitating access
to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI to which sub-
paragraph (6) applies.

12.10

For the purpose of paragraph 11(a) any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph shall be deemed to be protective works referred
to in that paragraph.

13

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as not
adversely to affect railway property.

14

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

15

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be repaid by
the undertaker to Network Rail.

16

16.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule which
may be occasioned to or reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

16.1.a

by reason of the construction, maintenance or operation of a specified work or
the failure thereof; or

16.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work,

16.1.c

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or any person in its employ
or of its contractors or others whilst accessing to or egressing from the
authorised development;

16.1.d

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to,
railway property or any such interference or obstruction or delay to the
operation of the railway as a result of access to or egress from the
authorised development by the undertaker or any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others;

16.1.e

in respect of costs incurred by Network Rail in complying with any railway
operational procedures or obtaining any regulatory consents which procedures
are required to be followed or consents obtained to facilitate the carrying
out or operation of the authorised development,

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or any such failure, act or omission: and the fact that any act
or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of the undertaker or in
accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in accordance with any
requirement of the engineer or under the engineer’s supervision shall not (if
it was done without negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any person in
its employ or of its contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker from any
liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph.

16.2

Network Rail must—

16.2.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such claims or demands;

16.2.b

not make any settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand without the
prior consent of the undertaker; and

16.2.c

take such steps as are within its control and are reasonable in the
circumstances to mitigate any liabilities relating to such claims or demands.

16.3

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) shall if relevant
include a sum equivalent to the relevant costs.

16.4

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

16.5

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
is, in the event of default, enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub-paragraph (4).

16.6

In this paragraph—

“ the relevant costs ” means the costs, losses and expenses (including loss of
revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence of any
specified work including but not limited to any restriction of the use of
Network Rail’s railway network as a result of the construction, maintenance or
failure of a specified work or any such act or omission as mentioned in sub-
paragraph (1); and “ train operator ” means any person who is authorised to
act as the operator of a train by a licence under section 8 of the Railways
Act 1993.

17

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Part of this Schedule (including the amount of
the relevant costs mentioned in paragraph 16) and with such information as may
reasonably enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any such
estimate or claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part of this Schedule
(including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

18

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part of this
Schedule there must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed
that is attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by
Network Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was
taken or entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by
the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or increasing the sums so
payable.

19

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

19.a

any railway property shown on the works and land plans and described in the
book of reference;

19.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

19.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

20

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I (the provision of
services) of the Railways Act 1993.

21

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent
under article 5 (benefit of the Order) of this Order and any such notice must
be given no later than 28 days before any such application is made and must
describe or give (as appropriate)—

21.a

the nature of the application to be made;

21.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

21.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

22

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans
submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with
article 38   (certification of plans and documents, etc.)   are certified by
the Secretary of State, provide a set of those plans to Network Rail in a
format specified by Network Rail.

23

In relation to any dispute arising under this Part of this Schedule (except
for those disputes referred to in paragraph 12) the provisions of article 39
(arbitration) shall not apply and any such dispute, unless otherwise provided
for, must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) to the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

1

1.1

The following provisions shall apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

1.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the Agency ” means the Environment Agency; “ construction ” includes
execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and excavation
and “ construct ” and “ constructed ” shall be construed accordingly; “
drainage work ” means any main river and includes any land which provides or
is expected to provide flood storage capacity for any main river and any bank,
wall, embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for
land drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring; “ the fishery ” means any
waters containing fish and fish in, or migrating to or from, such waters and
the spawn, spawning ground, habitat or food of such fish; “ main river ” means
all watercourses shown as such on the statutory main river maps held by the
Agency and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs including
any structure or appliance for controlling or regulating the flow of water in
or out of the channel; “ plans ” includes sections, drawings, specifications,
calculations and method statements; “ specified work ” means so much of any
work or operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under, over or within
16 metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to— affect any drainage
work or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from any
drainage work; affect the flow, purity or quality of water in any watercourse
or other surface waters or ground water; cause obstruction to the free passage
of fish or damage to any fishery; affect the conservation, distribution or use
of water resources ...; or affect the conservation value of the main river and
habitats in its immediate vicinity; and “ watercourse ” includes all rivers,
streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, basins, sewers and
passages through which water flows except a public sewer.

2

2.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the Agency plans of the specified work and such further particulars
available to it as the Agency may within 28 days of the receipt of the plans
reasonably request.

2.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the Agency, or determined under
paragraph 11.

2.3

Any approval of the Agency required under this paragraph—

2.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

2.3.b

is deemed to have been refused if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans or receipt of further particulars if
such particulars have been requested by the Agency for approval; and

2.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the Agency may have
for the protection of any drainage work or the fishery or for the protection
of water resources, or for the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the
discharge of its environmental duties.

2.4

The Agency must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the submission of
any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph
(3)(b).

3

Without limiting paragraph  2 , the requirements which the Agency may have
under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker at its own
expense to construct such protective works, whether temporary or permanent,
before or during the construction of the specified works (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

3.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

3.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the Agency under paragraph 3, must be constructed—

4.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved under this
Part; and

4.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, and the Agency shall be entitled
by its officer to watch and inspect the construction of such works.

4.2

The undertaker must give to the Agency not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and
notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is completed.

4.3

If the Agency reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct all or part
of the protective works so that they are in place prior to the construction of
any specified work.

4.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the Agency
is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this
Part, the Agency may by notice in writing require the undertaker at the
undertaker’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part or (if
the undertaker so elects and the Agency in writing consents, such consent not
to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove, alter or pull down the work
and, where removal is required, to restore the site to its former condition to
such extent and within such limits as the Agency reasonably requires.

4.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6) and paragraph 9, if, within a reasonable period,
being not less than 28 days beginning with the date when a notice under sub-
paragraph (4) is served upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to
begin taking steps to comply with the requirements of the notice and has not
subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the Agency may execute the works specified in the notice, and
any expenditure incurred by the Agency in so doing shall be recoverable from
the undertaker.

4.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the Agency shall not, except in the case of an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub–paragraph (4) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 11.

5

5.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (6) the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified works maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified works, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

5.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, the Agency may by
notice in writing require the undertaker to repair and restore the work, or
any part of such work, or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to
remove the work and restore the site to its former condition, to such extent
and within such limits as the Agency reasonably requires.

5.3

Subject to sub–paragraph (5) and paragraph 9, if, within a reasonable period,
being not less than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice in
respect of any drainage work is served under sub-paragraph (2) on the
undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may do what is
necessary for such compliance and any expenditure incurred by the Agency in so
doing shall be recoverable from the undertaker.

5.4

If there is any failure by the undertaker to obtain consent or comply with
conditions imposed by the Agency in accordance with these Protective
Provisions the Agency may serve written notice requiring the undertaker to
cease all or part of the specified works and the undertaker must cease the
specified works or part thereof until it has obtained the consent or complied
with the condition unless the cessation of the specified works or part thereof
would cause greater damage than compliance with the written notice.

5.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), the Agency shall not, except in the
case of an emergency, exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3) until
the dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph 11.

5.6

This paragraph does not apply to drainage works which are vested in the
Agency, or which the Agency or another person is liable to maintain and is not
proscribed by the powers of the Order from doing so.

6

Subject to paragraph 9, if by reason of the construction of any specified work
or of the failure of any such work, the efficiency of any drainage work for
flood defence purposes is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise
damaged, such impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Agency and if the undertaker fails to do so,
the Agency may make good the impairment or damage and recover any expenditure
incurred by the Agency in so doing from the undertaker.

7

If by reason of construction of the specified work the Agency’s access to
flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access that will allow the Agency to maintain the flood defence or use the
equipment no less effectively than was possible before the obstruction within
24 hours of the undertaker becoming aware of such obstruction.

8

8.1

The undertaker must take all such measures as may be reasonably practicable to
prevent any interruption of the free passage of fish in the fishery during the
construction of any specified work.

8.2

If by reason of—

8.2.a

the construction of any specified work; or

8.2.b

the failure of any such work,

damage to the fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such
damage may be caused, the Agency may serve notice on the undertaker requiring
it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicable to make good the
damage, or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such damage.

8.3

Subject to paragraph 9, if within such time as may be reasonably practicable
for that purpose after the receipt of written notice from the Agency of any
damage or expected damage to a fishery, the undertaker fails to take such
steps as are described in sub-paragraph (2), the Agency may take those steps
and any expenditure incurred by the Agency in so doing shall be recoverable
from the undertaker.

8.4

Subject to paragraph 9, in any case where immediate action by the Agency is
reasonably required in order to secure that the risk of damage to the fishery
is avoided or reduced, the Agency may take such steps as are reasonable for
the purpose, and may recover from the undertaker any expenditure incurred in
so doing provided that notice specifying those steps is served on the
undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency has taken, or
commenced to take, the steps specified in the notice.

9

The undertaker shall indemnify the Agency in respect of all costs, charges and
expenses which the Agency may incur—

9.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part;

9.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the Agency under this Part; and

9.c

in the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the Agency which are reasonably
required in connection with the construction of the specified works.

10

10.1

The undertaker is responsible for and shall indemnify the Agency against all
costs and losses not otherwise provided for in this Part which may be incurred
or suffered by the Agency by reason of—

10.1.a

the construction, operation or maintenance of any specified works comprised
within the authorised works or the failure of any such works comprised within
them; or

10.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction, operation or maintenance of the
authorised works or dealing with any failure of the authorised works.

10.2

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub–paragraph (1)—

“ costs ” includes— expenses and charges; staff costs and overheads; legal
costs; “ losses ” includes physical damage.

10.3

The undertaker shall indemnify the Agency against all liabilities, claims and
demands arising out of or in connection with the authorised works or otherwise
out of the matters referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and (1)(b).

10.4

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub–paragraph (3)—

“claims” and “demands” include as applicable— costs (within the meaning of
sub–paragraph (2)) incurred in connection with any claim or demand; and any
interest element of sums claimed or demanded; “ liabilities ” includes—
contractual liabilities; tortious liabilities (including liabilities for
negligence or nuisance); liabilities to pay statutory compensation or for
breach of statutory duty; liabilities to pay statutory penalties imposed on
the basis of strict liability (but does not include liabilities to pay other
statutory penalties).

10.5

The Agency must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand, and no settlement or compromise shall be made without the agreement of
the undertaker which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

10.6

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved by the Agency, or to its satisfaction, or in
accordance with any directions or award of an arbitrator, shall not relieve
the undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part.

11

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Agency under this Part
shall, if the parties agree, be determined by arbitration under article 39
(arbitration), but shall otherwise be determined by the Secretary of State for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs or its successor and the Secretary of
State for Energy Security and Net Zero or its successor acting jointly on a
reference to them by the undertaker or the Agency, after notice in writing by
one to the other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF DRAINAGE AUTHORITIES

1

The provisions of this Part have effect for the protection of the drainage
authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
drainage authority.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying
and removal and excavation and “construct” and “ constructed ” is to be
construed accordingly; “ drainage authority ” means in relation to an ordinary
watercourse, the drainage board concerned within the meaning of section 23
(prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act
1991 ; “ drainage work ” means any ordinary watercourse and includes any bank,
wall, embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for
land drainage or flood defence in connection with an ordinary watercourse
which is the responsibility of the drainage authority; “ independent review ”
means a review carried out by a third party confirming the findings of the
undertaker in the assessment of the impact of the proposed specified work on
flood risk; “ ordinary watercourse ” has the meaning given by section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991; “ plans ” includes any
information reasonably required by the drainage authority including location
details, grid references, sections, drawings, specifications, assessments and
method statements; and “ specified work ” means so much of any work or
operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under over or within 9 metres
of a drainage work and which comprises any of the following works carried out
in relation to or which may affect any ordinary watercourse— the erection of
any mill, dam, weir, or other similar obstruction to the flow of an ordinary
watercourse, or raising or otherwise altering any such obstruction; the
construction or installation of a bridge or other structure; the erection of a
culvert in an ordinary watercourse; the alteration of an ordinary watercourse
or a culvert or other form of drainage infrastructure in a manner that would
be likely to affect the flow of an ordinary watercourse; the introduction by
means of any channel, siphon, pipeline or sluice or by any other means
whatsoever   of  any water into any ordinary watercourse within the Order
limits so as to directly or indirectly increase the flow or volume of water in
any ordinary watercourse within the Order limits without the previous consent
of the drainage authority; any work likely to obstruct flow or adversely
affect the integrity of any embankment, wall or enclosing structure containing
an ordinary watercourse.

3

3.1

Before commencing construction of a specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the drainage authority plans of the specified work, including an
independent review and such further particulars available to it as the
drainage authority may within 14 days of the submission of the plans
reasonably request.

3.2

The undertaker must not commence construction of the specified work until
approval, unconditionally or conditionally, has been given as provided in this
paragraph.

3.3

A specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such plans
as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority or determined under
paragraph 12.

3.4

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

3.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

3.4.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 56 days
of the submission of the plans for approval, or submission of further
particulars (where required by the drainage authority under sub–paragraph (1))
whichever is the later; and

3.4.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the drainage authority
may make for the protection of any drainage work, for the protection of any
ordinary watercourse or for the prevention of flooding.

3.5

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

4

Without limiting paragraph 3, the requirements which the drainage authority
may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker at
its own expense to construct such protective works, whether temporary or
permanent, during the construction of the specified work (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

4.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage by reason of any specified work;
or

4.b

to secure that the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence and land
drainage purposes is not impaired, and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased, by reason of any specified work.

5

5.1

Subject to sub–paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph 4, must be constructed—

5.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part of this Schedule; and

5.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, and an officer of
the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the construction of
such works.

5.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority—

5.2.a

not less than 14 days’ notice in writing of its intention to commence
construction of any specified work; and

5.2.b

notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date of
completion.

5.3

If the drainage authority reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct
all or part of the protective works so that they are in place before the
construction of the specified work to which the protective works relate.

5.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the
drainage authority is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the
requirements of this Part of this Schedule, the drainage authority may by
notice in writing require the undertaker at the undertaker’s expense to comply
with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule or (if the undertaker so
elects and the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove, alter or pull down the work and,
where removal is agreed, to restore the site to its former condition to such
extent and within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

5.5

Subject to sub–paragraph (6) and paragraphs 9 and 10, if within a reasonable
period, being not less than 28 days from the date when a notice under
sub–paragraph  (4)  is served on the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to
begin taking steps to comply with the requirements of the notice and
subsequently to make reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the drainage authority may execute the works specified in the
notice and any reasonable expenditure incurred by it in so doing is
recoverable from the undertaker.

5.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not except in an emergency exercise the
powers conferred by sub–paragraph (5) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 12.

6

6.1

Subject to sub–paragraph (5), the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified work maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation on land held by the undertaker for the purpose of or in connection
with the specified work, whether or not the drainage work is constructed under
the powers conferred by this Order or is already in existence.

6.2

If any drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, the
drainage authority may by notice in writing require the undertaker to repair
and restore the work, or any part of the work, or (if the undertaker so elects
and the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), to remove the specified work and restore
the site to its former condition, to such extent and within such limits as the
drainage authority reasonably requires.

6.3

Subject to sub–paragraph (4) and paragraphs 9 and 10, if, within a reasonable
period being not less than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice
in respect of any drainage work is served under sub–paragraph (2) on the
undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
reasonable requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may
do what is reasonably necessary for such compliance and may recover any
reasonable expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so doing from the
undertaker.

6.4

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub–paragraph (2), the drainage authority must not except
in a case of emergency exercise the powers conferred by sub–paragraph (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph 12.

6.5

This paragraph does not apply to—

6.5.a

drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or which the
drainage authority or another person is liable to maintain and is not
prevented by this Order from so doing; and

6.5.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule provided that any obstruction is removed as soon as
reasonably practicable.

7

Subject to paragraphs 9 and 10 and paragraph 6(5)(b), if by reason of the
construction of any specified work or of the failure of any such work the
efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes or land drainage is
impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise damaged, such impairment or
damage must be made good by the undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of
the drainage authority and, if the undertaker fails to do so, the drainage
authority may make good the impairment or damage and recover from the
undertaker any expenditure incurred by the drainage authority in so doing from
the undertaker.

8

If by reason of the construction of the specified work the drainage
authority’s access to flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence
purposes is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative means of access that will allow the drainage authority to maintain
the flood defence or use the equipment no less effectively than was possible
before the obstruction within 24 hours of the undertaker becoming aware of
such obstruction.

9

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs, charges and
expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur—

9.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

9.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the drainage authority under this Part of this Schedule; and

9.c

in the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the drainage authority which
are reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified
works.

10

10.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs and losses which
may be reasonably incurred or suffered by the drainage authority by reason of—

10.1.a

the construction of any specified work comprised within the authorised works;
or

10.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction of the specified works.

10.2

In sub–paragraph (1)—

“ costs ” includes— expenses and charges; staff costs and overheads; and legal
costs; and “ losses ” includes physical damage.

10.3

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for liabilities, claims and
demands against the drainage authority arising out of or in connection with
the specified works or otherwise out of the matters referred to in
sub–paragraphs (1)(a) and (1)(b).

10.4

In sub–paragraph (3)—

“claims” and “demands” include as applicable— costs (within the meaning of
sub–paragraph (2)) incurred in connection with any claim or demand; and any
interest element of sums claimed or demanded; and “ liabilities ” includes—
contractual liabilities; tortious liabilities (including liabilities for
negligence or nuisance); liabilities to pay statutory compensation or for
breach of statutory duty; and liabilities to pay statutory penalties imposed
on the basis of strict liability (but does not include liabilities to pay
other statutory penalties).

10.5

The drainage authority must give to the undertaker notice of any such claim or
demand.

10.6

The undertaker may at its own expense conduct all negotiations for the
settlement of the same and any litigation that may arise therefrom.

10.7

The drainage authority must not compromise or settle any such claim or make
any admission which might be prejudicial to the claim without the agreement of
the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

10.8

The drainage authority must, at all times take reasonable steps to prevent and
mitigate any such claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or
loss.

10.9

The drainage authority must, at the request of the undertaker, afford all
reasonable assistance for the purpose of contesting any such claim or action
and is entitled to be repaid its reasonable expenses reasonably incurred in so
doing.

11

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved or deemed to be approved by the drainage
authority, or to its satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or
award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the undertaker from any liability
under this Part of this Schedule.

12

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule, if the parties agree, is to be determined by
arbitration under article 39 (arbitration), but otherwise is to be determined
by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on a reference to
them by the undertaker or the drainage authority, after notice in writing by
one to the other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF DOGGERBANK OFFSHORE WIND FARM PROJECT 1 PROJCO LIMITED AND DOGGERBANK OFFSHORE WIND FARM PROJECT 2 PROJCO LIMITED

1

For the protection of Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 1 Projco Limited
(Company No. 07791991) and Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 2 Projco
Limited (Company No. 07914510) as referred to in this Part of this Schedule
the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Dogger Bank.

2

Part 1 of Schedule 9 shall not apply in respect of the interaction between the
Hornsea Four authorised development and the Dogger Bank authorised
development.

3

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ acceptable insurance ” means a third party liability insurance effected and
maintained by the undertaker to a level of not less than  £50,000,000.00
(fifty million pounds) (or such lower amount as may be agreed by Dogger Bank)
per occurrence or series of occurrences arising out of one event. Such
insurance shall be maintained for the construction period of the authorised
development which constitute specified works and arranged with an
internationally recognised insurer of repute operating in the London and
worldwide insurance market underwriters whose security/credit rating meets the
same requirements as an “acceptable credit provider”, such policy shall
include (but without limitation)— Dogger Bank as a Co-Insured; a cross
liabilities clause; and contractors’ pollution liability for third party
property damage and third party bodily damage arising from a
pollution/contamination event with cover of £10,000,000.00 (ten million
pounds) per event or £20,000,000.00 (twenty million pounds) in aggregate; “
Dogger Bank ” means Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 1 Projco Limited
(Company No. 07791991) and Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 2 Projco
Limited (Company No. 07914510) whose registered office is at No.1 Forbury
Place, 43 Forbury Road, Reading, United Kingdom, RG1 3JH; “ the Dogger Bank
authorised development ” means the onshore development authorised by the
Dogger Bank Order; “ Dogger Bank limits of deviation ” means the areas of the
Dogger Bank Order land in respect of which the Dogger Bank authorised
development may be constructed, in accordance with article 3(2) of the Dogger
Bank Order; “ the Dogger Bank Order ” means the Dogger Bank Creyke Beck
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2015 (as amended) ; “ the Dogger Bank Order land ”
means the land or any part of it shown as falling within the Dogger Bank Order
limits; “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by Dogger Bank
(such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the
necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event; “ ground monitoring
scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the
Dogger Bank authorised development which is to be subject to such monitoring,
the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to
be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the undertaker to submit
for Dogger Bank’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence
event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities
set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described
in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; and “
the Hornsea Four authorised development ” means the development authorised by
this Order; “ the respective authorised developments ” means the Dogger Bank
authorised development and the Hornsea Four authorised development; “
specified works ” means the carrying out of any of the authorised development
over, under or within 15 metres of the Dogger Bank authorised development or
in the event that the Dogger Bank authorised development has not been
constructed within the Dogger Bank limits of deviation.

###### Regulation of powers over the Hornsea Four Order land

4

4.1

The undertaker may not exercise the powers under any of the articles of the
Order specified in sub-paragraph (2) over or in respect of the Dogger Bank
limits of deviation otherwise than with the prior written consent of Dogger
Bank.

4.2

The articles referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are—

4.2.a

article 8 (street works);

4.2.b

article 10   (temporary closure and restriction of streets and public rights
of way)  ;

4.2.c

article 11 (  closure   and diversion of public rights of way and access
land);

4.2.d

article 12 (access to works);

4.2.e

article 14 (power to alter layout etc. of streets);

4.2.f

article 15 (discharge of water);

4.2.g

article 17 (authority to survey and investigate the land onshore);

4.2.h

article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land);

4.2.i

article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land: minerals) ;

4.2.j

article 21 (compulsory acquisition of rights  etc.  );

4.2.k

article 22 (private rights);

4.2.l

article 24 (statutory authority to override easements and other rights);

4.2.m

article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only);

4.2.n

article 27 (rights under or over streets);

4.2.o

article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out   the  authorised project);

4.2.p

article 29 (temporary use of land for maintaining   the  authorised   project
);

4.2.q

article   30   (statutory undertakers);

4.2.r

article 36 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows); and

4.2.s

article 37 (trees subject to tree preservation orders).

4.3

In the event that Dogger Bank withholds its consent pursuant to sub-paragraph
(1) it will notify the undertaker in writing of the reasons for withholding
such consent and (if applicable) the time period during which such consent
will be withheld.

###### Co-operation during construction

5

The undertaker may not acquire any land interest or override any easement or
other interest of Dogger Bank within the Dogger Bank limits of deviation
without first obtaining the written consent of Dogger Bank.

6

6.1

Wherever in this Part of this Schedule provision is made with respect to the
approval or consent of Dogger Bank, that approval or consent shall be in
writing (and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as Dogger Bank
may require), but shall not be unreasonably withheld.

6.2

In the event that Dogger Bank does not respond in writing to a request for
approval or consent within 28 days of receipt of such a request, Dogger Bank
is deemed to have given its consent (without any terms or conditions).

7

Insofar as the construction of the Hornsea Four authorised development is or
may be undertaken concurrently with the Dogger Bank authorised development,
the undertaker shall—

7.a

co-operate with Dogger Bank with a view to ensuring—

7.a.i

the co-ordination of construction programming and the carrying out of works;
and

7.a.ii

that access for the purposes of constructing the respective authorised
developments is maintained for the undertaker and Dogger Bank and their
respective contractors.

7.b

use reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the carrying
out of the respective authorised developments.

8

Insofar as the construction of the Hornsea Four authorised development gives
rise to the need to modify any scheme secured by a requirement contained in
Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Dogger Bank Order, the undertaker shall provide
such assistance as is reasonably necessary to support Dogger Bank in pursuing
any such modification.

###### Protection of Dogger Bank

9

9.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Dogger Bank a plan and, if reasonably required by
Dogger Bank, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

9.2

The plan to be submitted to Dogger Bank under sub-paragraph (1) must include a
method statement and describe—

9.2.a

the exact position of the works;

9.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

9.2.d

the position of all Dogger Bank authorised development;

9.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any of the Dogger Bank authorised development; and

9.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

9.3

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)
apply until Dogger Bank has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

9.4

Any approval of Dogger Bank required under sub-paragraph (3)—

9.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5) or (7); and

9.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

9.5

In relation to a work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and/or (2) apply, Dogger
Bank may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing the Dogger Bank authorised
development against interference or risk of damage or for the provision of
protective works or for the purpose of providing or securing proper and
convenient means of access to any of the Dogger Bank authorised development.

9.6

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) or as relevant sub-
paragraph (5), as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and Dogger Bank and in accordance with such reasonable requirements
as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) and/or (7) by Dogger Bank
for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the Dogger Bank
authorised development, or for securing access to it, and Dogger Bank will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

9.7

Where Dogger Bank requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or
by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Dogger
Bank’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works for which
protective works are required and Dogger Bank must give notice of its
requirement for such protective works within 42 days of the date of submission
of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

9.8

Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing
the execution of any specified works. a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will
apply to and in respect of the new plan.

9.9

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to Dogger Bank notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a
plan of those works and must—

9.9.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

9.9.b

comply with sub-paragraph (10) at all times.

9.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker shall implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that Dogger Bank retains the right
to carry out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of
its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 10.

###### Expenses

10

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between Dogger Bank and the undertaker
and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
pay to Dogger Bank within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from Dogger Bank all charges, costs and expenses reasonably incurred by Dogger
Bank in, or in connection with this Part of this Schedule including without
limitation—

10.a

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

10.b

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

###### Indemnity

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
onshore elements of the authorised development by or on behalf of the
undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any
person employed or authorised by him) in the course of carrying out the
onshore elements of the authorised development (including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works), any damage is caused to any
apparatus or property of Dogger Bank, or there is any interruption in any
service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by Dogger Bank, or Dogger
Bank becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker will—

11.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Dogger Bank the
cost reasonably and properly incurred by Dogger Bank in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

indemnify Dogger Bank for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from Dogger Bank,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or Dogger Bank
becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from any
default by Dogger Bank.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Dogger Bank on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Dogger Bank or in
accordance with any requirement of Dogger Bank as a consequence of the onshore
elements of the authorised development or under its supervision will not
(unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under
the provisions of this sub-paragraph (2) where the undertaker fails to carry
out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan or as otherwise agreed between the undertaker and Dogger Bank.

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the neglect or default of Dogger Bank, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

11.4

Dogger Bank must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand must
be made, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme without first consulting the undertaker and considering
its representations.

11.5

Dogger Bank must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part
and to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands and penalties to which the
indemnity under sub-paragraph (1) applies. If requested to do so by the
undertaker, Dogger Bank must provide an explanation of how the claim has been
minimised. The undertaker is only liable under sub-paragraph (1) for claims
reasonably incurred by Dogger Bank.

11.6

The undertaker must not commence construction (and must not permit the
commencement of such construction) of any specified works until Dogger Bank is
satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to all necessary regulatory
constraints) that the undertaker or its contractor has procured acceptable
insurance (and provided evidence to Dogger Bank that it shall maintain such
acceptable insurance for the construction period of the specified works from
the proposed date of commencement of construction of the specified works) and
Dogger Bank has confirmed the same in writing to the undertaker.

11.7

In the event that the undertaker fails to comply with paragraph 11(5) of this
Part of this Schedule, nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall prevent
Dogger Bank from seeking injunctive relief (or any other equitable remedy) in
any court of competent jurisdiction.

###### Arbitration

12

12.1

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Dogger Bank under
this Part of this Schedule shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and Dogger Bank, be referred to and settled in arbitration in
accordance with the Rules at Schedule 14 of this Order, by a single arbitrator
to be agreed upon by the parties within 14 days of receipt of the notice of
arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

12.2

Should the Secretary of State fail to appoint an arbitrator under paragraph
(1) within 14 days of the application, the referring party may refer to the
Centre of Effective Dispute Resolution for appointment of an arbitrator.

12.3

Article 39 (arbitration) shall not apply to any difference or dispute under
any provisions of the Part of this Schedule.

###### Access

13

If in consequence of any specified works approved in accordance with this Part
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable Dogger Bank to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NEO ENERGY (SNS) LIMITED

###### Application

1

For the protection of the licensee from time to time of United Kingdom
Petroleum Production Licence P.456 Block 48/2a, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the licensee the provisions of this Part of
this Schedule shall have effect for so long as the licence shall remain in
full force and effect.

2

In the event that the licence is terminated and no longer has effect, the
obligations on the undertaker in this Schedule shall no longer have effect in
so far as they relate to the licensee’s works under the terminated licence(s).

###### Interpretation

3

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ licence ” means United Kingdom Petroleum Production Licence P.456 Block
48/2a; “ licensee ” means the licensee from time to time of the licence; “
ministerial statement ” means the written statement given by the Secretary of
State for Energy and Climate Change to the UK Parliament regarding Crown
Estate Leases for Offshore Renewables Projects on 12 July 2011, or any similar
supplementary or replacement policy; “ the NEO Protective Provisions Plan ”
means the plan entitled NEO Protective Provisions Plan as contained with
Appendix B of REP7-106 and certified as the NEO Protective Provisions Plan for
the purposes of this Part of this Schedule; “ Restricted Area ” means the
spherical area of seabed having a radius of 3.14 nautical miles from UTM
383,265.00 East, UTM 5,981,086.00 North (International Spheroid, European
Datum 1950, Zone 31, Central Meridian 3 degrees East) that point being the
centre of the existing Babbage platform in Licence P.456 Block 48/2a operated
by the licensee shown delineated blue on the NEO Protective Provisions Plan;
and “ relevant activities ” means all development activity relating to the
carrying on of the undertaker’s and licensee’s businesses within, or adjacent
to the restricted area, including (but not limited to) the preparation of
development proposals, the submission of applications for statutory consents
associated with those proposals and consultation in respect thereof, the
acquisition of or application for new licence oil or gas blocks.

###### Restriction on authorised development

4

No wind turbine generator shall be erected in the restricted area, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the licensee and the undertaker.

###### Provision of information

5

Without prejudice to any other rights or obligations under this Part of this
Schedule the licensee and the undertaker shall from time to time keep each
other informed of relevant activities such that the licensee and the
undertaker may seek to agree solutions to allow those activities to
successfully co-exist as far as reasonably practicable or if later until
completion of activities required under any statutory decommissioning plan
required under the Petroleum Act 1998 in relation to the licence and taking
place within the areas subject to the licence.

###### Compensation

6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall affect any rights or obligations
or assessment of compensation in accordance with the ministerial statement and
any associated guidance.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NORTHERN POWERGRID (YORKSHIRE) PLC

###### Application

1

For the protection of Northern Powergrid referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the affected undertaking concerned, have effect.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Northern Powergrid to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less
efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means electric lines or electrical
plant (as defined in the 1989 Act), belonging to or maintained by Northern
Powergrid; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and “ Northern
Powergrid ” means Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) PLC (Company Number 04112320)
whose registered address is Lloyds Court, 78 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne,
NE1 6AF.

###### Precedence of the 1991 Act in respect of apparatus in the streets

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the Northern Powergrid are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### No acquisition etc. except by agreement

4

4.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker shall not acquire any
apparatus or override any easement or other interest of Northern Powergrid or
acquire any land or other interest of Northern Powergrid or create any new
rights over the same otherwise than by agreement of  ... Northern Powergrid
such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed (having regard to
Northern Powergrid’s existing and future requirements for such land or
interests).

4.2

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker shall not interfere with
any communications cables or equipment used by Northern Powergrid in relation
to its apparatus or acquire or interfere with any rights or interests
supporting the use, maintenance or renewal of such equipment otherwise than by
agreement of Northern Powergrid (such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).

###### Removal of apparatus

5

5.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule and any right
of Northern Powergrid to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of Northern Powergrid.

5.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any
apparatus placed in that land, it must give to Northern Powergrid 56 days
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Northern
Powergrid reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to Northern Powergrid the necessary
facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other
land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

5.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed—

5.3.a

the undertaker must in the first instance use reasonable endeavours to acquire
all necessary land interests or rights as Northern Powergrid may reasonably
require for the relocation and construction of alternative apparatus and must
use reasonable endeavours to procure all necessary rights to access and
maintain Northern Powergrid’s apparatus and alternative apparatus thereafter
the terms of such access and maintenance to be agreed by Northern Powergrid
(acting reasonably); and

5.3.b

in the event the undertaker is not able to procure the necessary land
interests or rights referred to in sub-paragraph (3)(a) Northern Powergrid
must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, as
soon as reasonably possible use reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for
Northern Powergrid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to do so.

5.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Northern Powergrid and the undertaker or
in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 39
(arbitration).

5.5

Northern Powergrid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 39 (arbitration) and after the grant to Northern Powergrid of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

6

6.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to Northern Powergrid facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and Northern Powergrid or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 39 (arbitration).

6.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Northern Powergrid than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms
and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to Northern Powergrid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

7

7.1

Not less than 56 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
within 15 metres of, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which
has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 5, the undertaker must
submit to Northern Powergrid a plan, section and description of the works to
be executed.

7.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
Northern Powergrid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Northern Powergrid is entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

7.3

Any requirements made by Northern Powergrid under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 49 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

7.4

If Northern Powergrid in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) and in consequence
of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of
any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
paragraphs 1 to 6 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had been required
by the undertaker under paragraph 5.

7.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 35 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

7.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Northern Powergrid notice as soon
as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and description of those
works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-
paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

8

8.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between Northern Powergrid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must repay to Northern Powergrid within 30 days of receipt of an
itemised invoice or claim all charges costs and expenses reasonably incurred
by Northern Powergrid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal,
relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the
construction of any new apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any such works as authorised by this Order including without
limitation—

8.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with
the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such
apparatus including without limitation in the event that Northern Powergrid
elects to use compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 5(3)  all costs incurred as a result of such action;

8.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

8.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

8.1.d

the approval of plans;

8.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

8.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Schedule.

8.2

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

8.2.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

8.2.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 39 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Northern Powergrid by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess save where it is not possible
in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of operations, capacity,
dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full costs shall be
borne by the undertaker.

8.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2)—

8.3.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

8.3.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

###### Expenses and costs

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (5), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in this Part of this Schedule, or
in consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
it) in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker or Northern Powergrid under this Schedule
or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to
any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of
which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of those works) or property of Northern Powergrid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
Northern Powergrid, or Northern Powergrid becomes liable to pay any amount to
a third party the undertaker must—

9.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Northern Powergrid in making good
such damage or restoring the supply; and

9.1.b

indemnify Northern Powergrid for any other expenses, loss, demands,
proceedings, damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from
Northern Powergrid, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or Northern Powergrid becoming liable to any third party.

9.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Northern Powergrid on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Northern
Powergrid or in accordance with any requirement of Northern Powergrid as a
consequence of the authorised development or under its supervision will not
(unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under
the provisions of this sub-paragraph (2) where the undertaker fails to carry
out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not materially accord
with the approved plan or as otherwise agreed between the undertaker and
Northern Powergrid.

9.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to—

9.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of Northern Powergrid, its officers, servants, contractors
or agents; or

9.3.b

any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Part of
this Schedule carried out by Northern Powergrid as an assignee, transferee or
lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of the Order subject to the proviso
that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”) any works yet to be
executed by the undertaker and not falling within this paragraph 9(3)(b) will
be subject to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including this
paragraph 9 in respect of such new apparatus.

9.4

Northern Powergrid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, shall have the
sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

9.5

Northern Powergrid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or
in part and to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands and penalties to
which the indemnity under sub-paragraph (1) applies. If  requested  to do so
by the undertaker, Northern Powergrid must provide an explanation of how the
claim has been minimised.  The undertaker is only liable under sub-paragraph
(1) for claims  reasonably incurred by Northern Powergrid.

10

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Northern
Powergrid in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

11

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Northern Powergrid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 5(2) or otherwise or Northern Powergrid makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 7,
the undertaker shall use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the need to ensure the safe and
efficient operation of Northern Powergrid’s undertaking taking into account
the undertaker’s desire for the efficient and economic execution of the
authorised development and the undertaker and Northern Powergrid shall use
best endeavours to co-operate with each other for those purposes.

###### Access

12

If in consequence of an agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 4(1) or
the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus or alternative
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker shall provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus or alternative apparatus as will
enable Northern Powergrid to maintain or use the said apparatus no less
effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Notices

13

The plans submitted to Northern Powergrid by the undertaker pursuant to this
Part of the Schedule must be sent to Northern Powergrid at
property@northernpowergrid.com or such other address as Northern Powergrid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE KUMATAGE FIELD

###### Application

1

For the protection of the licensee from time to time of the licence in respect
of the area comprising the Kumatage Field, previously under United Kingdom
Petroleum Production Licence P.2426 and any licence granted to replace it in
the 33 rd  Offshore Licensing Round, unless otherwise provided for in this
Schedule or otherwise agreed in writing between the licensee and the
undertaker the provisions of this Part of this Schedule shall have effect for
so long as the licence shall remain in full force and effect.

2

In the event that—

2.a

no licence is granted under the North Sea Transition Authority 33 rd  Offshore
Licensing Round;

2.b

any licence granted under the North Sea Transition Authority 33 rd  Offshore
Licensing Round is terminated and no longer has effect;

2.c

before 1 January 2026, the licensee has not obtained the necessary consents;

2.d

the licensee fails to serve notice on the undertaker as required by paragraph
5,

the obligations on the undertaker in this Part of this Schedule shall no
longer have effect.

###### Interpretation

3

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ Bridge protected area plan ” means the plan entitled Bridge Petroleum:
Kumatage Protective Provisions and certified as the Bridge protected area plan
for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule; “ emergency works ” means
works whose execution at the time when they are executed is required in order
to put an end to, or to prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing
or imminent (or which the person responsible for the works believes on
reasonable grounds to be existing or imminent) which are likely to cause
danger to persons, property or the environment; “ exclusion zones ” means an
area on, under or above the seabed within a distance of 500m of the outer edge
of an installed platform or centre point of installed subsea infrastructure
(excluding an installed pipeline) and an area of 200m either side of an
installed pipeline, in each case forming part of the licensee’s works; “
licence ” means any licence granted under the 33 rd  licensing round by the
North Sea Transition Authority for the area comprising the Kumatage Field,
previously under United Kingdom Petroleum Production Licence P.2426; “
licensee ” means the licensee from time to time of the licence; “ licensee’s
works ” means exploration, appraisal, development, production, maintenance,
interventions and/or decommissioning activity in accordance with and pursuant
to the licence; “ necessary consents ” means regulatory approval from the
North Sea Transition Agency (or any successor in function) and the Offshore
Petroleum Regulator for Environment and Decommissioning (or any successor in
function) for one or more appraisal well(s) and approval from the North Sea
Transition Agency (or any successor in function) of a field development plan;
“ pipeline route A ” means the route coloured pale yellow on the Bridge
protected area plan; “ pipeline route B ” means the route coloured red on the
Bridge protected area plan; “ primary lines of orientation ” means the lines
identified as the primary lines of orientation for wind turbine generators
comprised in the authorised development running south east to north west on
bearing 326.5 degrees as shown on the Bridge protected area plan; “ protected
area ” means the area of seabed with the coordinates below and shown shaded
grey/blue on the Bridge protected area plan, excluding any relinquished area
X_UTM31N Y_UTM31N Latitude Longitude Lat_DMS Long_DMS 369758.7442 6001005.102
54.14062859 1.006235389 54° 8′ 26.263″ N 1° 0′ 22.447″ E 370895.6849
6000130.985 54.13306382 1.024002362 54° 7′ 59.030″ N 1° 1′ 26.409″ E
371000.6638 6000185.22 54.13357734 1.025584881 54° 8′ 0.878″ N 1° 1′ 32.106″ E
371114.236 6000217.83 54.13389873 1.027308113 54° 8′ 2.035″ N 1° 1′ 38.309″ E
371232.0093 6000227.549 54.13401555 1.029105395 54° 8′ 2.456″ N 1° 1′ 44.779″
E 371349.3879 6000214.002 54.13392326 1.030906567 54° 8′ 2.124″ N 1° 1′
51.264″ E 371461.8379 6000177.714 54.13362543 1.032642027 54° 8′ 1.052″ N 1°
1′ 57.511″ E 371564.9957 6000120.091 54.13313363 1.03424441 54° 7′ 59.281″ N
1° 2′ 3.280″ E 371654.8603 6000043.37 54.13246692 1.035651552 54° 7′ 56.881″ N
1° 2′ 8.346″ E 371727.9464 5999950.524 54.13165119 1.03680887 54° 7′ 53.944″ N
1° 2′ 12.512″ E 371780.158 5999848.371 54.13074663 1.037650827 54° 7′ 50.688″
N 1° 2′ 15.543″ E 371811.9723 5999738.148 54.12976449 1.03818421 54° 7′
47.152″ N 1° 2′ 17.463″ E 371822.2261 5999623.885 54.12874068 1.038389537 54°
7′ 43.466″ N 1° 2′ 18.202″ E 371810.5448 5999509.758 54.12771263 1.03825933
54° 7′ 39.765″ N 1° 2′ 17.734″ E 371777.3552 5999399.942 54.12671793
1.037798369 54° 7′ 36.185″ N 1° 2′ 16.074″ E 371723.8708 5999298.449
54.12579294 1.03702353 54° 7′ 32.855″ N 1° 2′ 13.285″ E 371652.0469
5999208.992 54.12497147 1.035963155 54° 7′ 29.897″ N 1° 2′ 9.467″ E
371564.5095 5999134.84 54.12428355 1.03465602 54° 7′ 27.421″ N 1° 2′ 4.762″ E
371707.0735 5999034.998 54.12342232 1.036878551 54° 7′ 24.320″ N 1° 2′ 12.763″
E 371814.9826 5998898.439 54.12222259 1.03858664 54° 7′ 20.001″ N 1° 2′
18.912″ E 371879.1565 5998736.653 54.12078534 1.039636569 54° 7′ 14.827″ N 1°
2′ 22.692″ E 371894.1948 5998563.256 54.11923155 1.03994004 54° 7′ 9.234″ N 1°
2′ 23.784″ E 371869.3359 5998424.266 54.11797689 1.039618876 54° 7′ 4.717″ N
1° 2′ 22.628″ E 371812.684 5998294.935 54.11680105 1.038807534 54° 7′ 0.484″ N
1° 2′ 19.707″ E 371727.3768 5998182.423 54.11576916 1.037550984 54° 6′ 56.769″
N 1° 2′ 15.184″ E 371618.1385 5998092.963 54.11493834 1.035918829 54° 6′
53.778″ N 1° 2′ 9.308″ E 371517.1978 5998041.233 54.11444847 1.034397558 54°
6′ 52.014″ N 1° 2′ 3.831″ E 371408.3254 5998009.424 54.11413554 1.032746584
54° 6′ 50.888″ N 1° 1′ 57.888″ E 371295.412 5997998.673 54.11401073
1.031024889 54° 6′ 50.439″ N 1° 1′ 51.690″ E 371182.4928 5998009.363
54.1140785 1.029293977 54° 6′ 50.683″ N 1° 1′ 45.458″ E 371073.6033
5998041.114 54.11433642 1.027615684 54° 6′ 51.611″ N 1° 1′ 39.416″ E
370972.635 5998092.79 54.11477528 1.026049969 54° 6′ 53.191″ N 1° 1′ 33.780″ E
370883.1961 5998162.545 54.1153794 1.024652768 54° 6′ 55.366″ N 1° 1′ 28.750″
E 370808.4831 5998247.885 54.11612721 1.023474009 54° 6′ 58.058″ N 1° 1′
24.506″ E 370748.8624 5998350.778 54.11703645 1.022518453 54° 7′ 1.331″ N 1°
1′ 21.066″ E 370710.7056 5998463.407 54.11803854 1.021886867 54° 7′ 4.939″ N
1° 1′ 18.793″ E 370695.5115 5998581.35 54.11909413 1.02160408 54° 7′ 8.739″ N
1° 1′ 17.775″ E 370703.8771 5998699.973 54.12016175 1.021681229 54° 7′ 12.582″
N 1° 1′ 18.052″ E 370735.4737 5998814.617 54.12119946 1.02211531 54° 7′
16.318″ N 1° 1′ 19.615″ E 370789.0601 5998920.777 54.1221665 1.022889294 54°
7′ 19.799″ N 1° 1′ 22.401″ E 370862.5312 5999014.283 54.12302486 1.023972795
54° 7′ 22.889″ N 1° 1′ 26.302″ E 370953.001 5999091.462 54.12374082 1.02532326
54° 7′ 25.467″ N 1° 1′ 31.164″ E 370856.0517 5999152.369 54.12426358
1.023814676 54° 7′ 27.349″ N 1° 1′ 25.733″ E 370772.4368 5999230.583
54.12494512 1.022502564 54° 7′ 29.802″ N 1° 1′ 21.009″ E 370705.2009
5999323.255 54.12576063 1.021434697 54° 7′ 32.738″ N 1° 1′ 17.165″ E
370656.7919 5999427.012 54.12668043 1.02064996 54° 7′ 36.050″ N 1° 1′ 14.340″
E 369290.5479 5999425.493 54.12632131 0.999756873 54° 7′ 34.757″ N 0° 59′
59.125″ E 369409.1471 5999825.625 54.12994553 1.00139754 54° 7′ 47.804″ N 1°
0′ 5.031″ E 370629.9711 5999826.982 54.13026636 1.02006844 54° 7′ 48.959″ N 1°
1′ 12.246″ E 369634.1373 6000584.701 54.13682085 1.004510756 54° 8′ 12.555″ N
1° 0′ 16.239″ E 369758.7442 6001005.102 54.14062859 1.006235389 54° 8′ 26.263″
N 1° 0′ 22.447″ E “ offshore wind infrastructure ” means all infrastructure
permitted by this Order excluding offshore wind activities and the overhanging
of a wind turbine generator blade; “ offshore wind activities ” means
investigation survey or other activity relating to the evaluation of
development construction operation and maintenance and/or decommissioning of
the authorised development and shall include the use of a jack-up or other
vessel; “ relinquished area ” means any part of the protected area that is
relinquished by the licensee pursuant to the licence or otherwise removed from
the scope of the licence, but which shall not include the exclusion zones; and
“ remaining overlap area ” means the area of seabed with the coordinates below
and shown cross-hatched on the Bridge protected area plan ETRS89_X ETRS89_Y
Latitude Longitude DDLat DDLong 369290.5479 5999425.493 54° 7′ 34.757″ N 0°
59′ 59.125″ E 54.12632131 0.999756873 370656.7919 5999427.012 54° 7′ 36.050″ N
1° 1′ 14.340″ E 54.12668043 1.02064996 370705.2009 5999323.255 54° 7′ 32.738″
N 1° 1′ 17.165″ E 54.12576063 1.021434697 370772.4368 5999230.583 54° 7′
29.802″ N 1° 1′ 21.009″ E 54.12494512 1.022502564 370856.0517 5999152.369 54°
7′ 27.349″ N 1° 1′ 25.733″ E 54.12426358 1.023814676 370953.001 5999091.462
54° 7′ 25.467″ N 1° 1′ 31.164″ E 54.12374082 1.02532326 370862.5312
5999014.283 54° 7′ 22.889″ N 1° 1′ 26.302″ E 54.12302486 1.023972795
370789.0601 5998920.777 54° 7′ 19.799″ N 1° 1′ 22.401″ E 54.12216649
1.022889294 370735.4737 5998814.617 54° 7′ 16.318″ N 1° 1′ 19.615″ E
54.12119946 1.02211531 370703.8771 5998699.973 54° 7′ 12.582″ N 1° 1′ 18.052″
E 54.12016175 1.021681229 370695.5115 5998581.35 54° 7′ 8.739″ N 1° 1′ 17.775″
E 54.11909413 1.02160408 370710.7056 5998463.407 54° 7′ 4.939″ N 1° 1′ 18.793″
E 54.11803854 1.021886867 370748.8624 5998350.777 54° 7′ 1.331″ N 1° 1′
21.066″ E 54.11703645 1.022518453 370808.4831 5998247.885 54° 6′ 58.058″ N 1°
1′ 24.506″ E 54.11612721 1.023474009 370883.1961 5998162.545 54° 6′ 55.366″ N
1° 1′ 28.750″ E 54.1153794 1.024652768 370972.635 5998092.79 54° 6′ 53.191″ N
1° 1′ 33.780″ E 54.11477528 1.026049969 371073.6033 5998041.114 54° 6′ 51.611″
N 1° 1′ 39.416″ E 54.11433642 1.027615684 371182.4928 5998009.363 54° 6′
50.683″ N 1° 1′ 45.458″ E 54.1140785 1.029293977 371295.412 5997998.672 54° 6′
50.439″ N 1° 1′ 51.690″ E 54.11401073 1.031024889 371408.3254 5998009.424 54°
6′ 50.888″ N 1° 1′ 57.888″ E 54.11413554 1.032746584 371517.1978 5998041.233
54° 6′ 52.014″ N 1° 2′ 3.831″ E 54.11444847 1.034397558 371618.1385
5998092.963 54° 6′ 53.778″ N 1° 2′ 9.308″ E 54.11493834 1.035918829
371727.3768 5998182.423 54° 6′ 56.769″ N 1° 2′ 15.184″ E 54.11576916
1.037550984 371812.684 5998294.934 54° 7′ 0.484″ N 1° 2′ 19.707″ E 54.11680105
1.038807534 371869.3359 5998424.266 54° 7′ 4.717″ N 1° 2′ 22.628″ E
54.11797689 1.039618876 371894.1948 5998563.256 54° 7′ 9.234″ N 1° 2′ 23.784″
E 54.11923155 1.03994004 371879.1565 5998736.653 54° 7′ 14.827″ N 1° 2′
22.692″ E 54.12078534 1.039636569 371814.9826 5998898.439 54° 7′ 20.001″ N 1°
2′ 18.912″ E 54.12222259 1.03858664 371707.0735 5999034.998 54° 7′ 24.320″ N
1° 2′ 12.763″ E 54.12342232 1.036878551 371564.5095 5999134.84 54° 7′ 27.421″
N 1° 2′ 4.762″ E 54.12428355 1.03465602 371652.0469 5999208.992 54° 7′ 29.897″
N 1° 2′ 9.467″ E 54.12497147 1.035963155 371723.8708 5999298.449 54° 7′
32.855″ N 1° 2′ 13.285″ E 54.12579294 1.03702353 371777.3552 5999399.942 54°
7′ 36.185″ N 1° 2′ 16.074″ E 54.12671793 1.037798369 371810.5448 5999509.758
54° 7′ 39.765″ N 1° 2′ 17.734″ E 54.12771263 1.03825933 371822.2261
5999623.885 54° 7′ 43.466″ N 1° 2′ 18.202″ E 54.12874068 1.038389537
371811.9723 5999738.148 54° 7′ 47.152″ N 1° 2′ 17.463″ E 54.12976449
1.03818421 371780.158 5999848.371 54° 7′ 50.688″ N 1° 2′ 15.543″ E 54.13074663
1.037650827 371727.9464 5999950.524 54° 7′ 53.944″ N 1° 2′ 12.512″ E
54.13165119 1.03680887 371654.8603 6000043.37 54° 7′ 56.881″ N 1° 2′ 8.346″ E
54.13246692 1.035651552 371564.9957 6000120.091 54° 7′ 59.281″ N 1° 2′ 3.280″
E 54.13313363 1.03424441 371461.8379 6000177.714 54° 8′ 1.052″ N 1° 1′ 57.511″
E 54.13362543 1.032642027 371349.3879 6000214.002 54° 8′ 2.124″ N 1° 1′
51.264″ E 54.13392326 1.030906567 371232.0093 6000227.548 54° 8′ 2.456″ N 1°
1′ 44.779″ E 54.13401555 1.029105395 371114.236 6000217.83 54° 8′ 2.035″ N 1°
1′ 38.309″ E 54.13389873 1.027308113 371000.6638 6000185.22 54° 8′ 0.878″ N 1°
1′ 32.106″ E 54.13357734 1.025584881 370895.6849 6000130.985 54° 7′ 59.030″ N
1° 1′ 26.409″ E 54.13306382 1.024002362 369758.744 6001005.102 54° 8′ 26.263″
N 1° 0′ 22.447″ E 54.14062859 1.006235386 370188.1134 6002453.716 54° 9′
13.497″ N 1° 0′ 43.850″ E 54.15374908 1.012180474 369052.38 6003839.014 54° 9′
57.254″ N 0° 59′ 39.116″ E 54.1659038 0.994198772 374775.9162 6003680.049 54°
9′ 57.253″ N 1° 4′ 54.768″ E 54.1659037 1.081880049 374549.6554 5995336.516
54° 5′ 27.244″ N 1° 4′ 54.777″ E 54.09090122 1.081882594 373037.8605
5995377.85 54° 5′ 27.247″ N 1° 3′ 31.553″ E 54.09090193 1.058764698
372386.8054 5996013.946 54° 5′ 47.237″ N 1° 2′ 54.774″ E 54.09645475
1.048548266 372395.3332 5996323.166 54° 5′ 57.244″ N 1° 2′ 54.773″ E
54.09923444 1.048548168 372060.5767 5996332.517 54° 5′ 57.247″ N 1° 2′ 36.341″
E 54.09923534 1.043428091 369201.7237 5999125.817 54° 7′ 24.985″ N 0° 59′
54.702″ E 54.12360695 0.998528288 369409.1471 5999825.625 54° 7′ 47.804″ N 1°
0′ 5.031″ E 54.12994553 1.00139754 369634.1371 6000584.702 54° 8′ 12.555″ N 1°
0′ 16.239″ E 54.13682085 1.004510753 370629.9711 5999826.982 54° 7′ 48.959″ N
1° 1′ 12.246″ E 54.13026636 1.02006844

###### Protected area

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph 7, no offshore wind infrastructure shall be constructed
within the protected area.

4.2

The undertaker may perform offshore wind activities in the protected area
provided that—

4.2.a

the undertaker provides advance written notice of its activities in the
protected area as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event no later
than six months prior to the scheduled commencement of such activities and
consent is obtained from the licensee, such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld;

4.2.b

the undertaker’s notice must describe the nature, extent, anticipated start
date and duration of the activities;

4.2.c

following commencement of the offshore wind activities in the protected area,
the undertaker must provide regular updates (no less frequently than every
fourteen days) to the licensee throughout the duration of the offshore wind
activities in the protected area as to their progress; and

4.2.d

within 24 hours of the completion of the offshore wind activities, the
undertaker provides notice to the licensee that the activities have been
completed and the protected area has been vacated.

4.3

The requirement for advance notice in sub-paragraph (2)(a) above shall not
apply to any offshore wind activities which are emergency works, in which case
the undertaker must provide notice as soon as reasonably practicable after
commencement of the activities.

4.4

Following completion of the relevant offshore wind activities the undertaker
shall use reasonable endeavours not to restrict, delay, hinder or prevent in
any way the licensee’s or its agents’ ability to access safely the protected
area and to carry out any drilling, development, production or decommissioning
activities that the licensee, acting as a reasonable and prudent operator
deems necessary from time to time.

5

No later than 6 months after the coming into force of this Order, the licensee
shall notify the undertaker of its proposed location of its pipeline, such
location being either pipeline route A or pipeline route B. From the date the
undertaker receives the licensee’s notification, the protected area shall
include either pipeline route A or pipeline route B (as elected by the
licensee).

###### Line of orientation

6

The licensee shall not carry out, nor procure the carrying out of, the
licensee’s works in any way that would prevent the undertaker from
constructing and maintaining the wind turbine generators comprised in the
authorised development in a layout consistent with the primary lines of
orientation.

###### Crossing and proximity

7

The undertaker and the licensee shall use reasonable endeavours to enter into
a crossing and/or proximity agreement on standard UK oil and gas industry
terms in relation to the licensee’s works and the authorised development in
relation to the protected area and the remaining overlap area, such agreement
to be entered as soon as reasonably practicable after the coming into force of
this Order.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF HARBOUR ENERGY LIMITED, PERENCO UK LIMITED, PREMIER OIL E&P UK EU LIMITED, DANA PETROLEUM (E&P) LIMITED AND DANA PETROLEUM LIMITED

###### Application

1

For the protection of the licensee from time to time of United Kingdom
Petroleum Production Licences P686 and P380, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the licensee the provisions of this Part of
this Schedule shall have effect for so long as the licence shall remain in
full force and effect.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ additional costs ” means any costs incurred by the licensee in carrying out
decommissioning of the Johnston Assets which would not have been incurred had
such decommissioning works been carried out prior to commencement of the
undertaker’s works, and relating to any of the following— the direct cost of
any rig brought into the marine corridor for the purposes of undertaking
decommissioning of the six producer wells comprised in the Johnston Assets, to
the extent such cost is directly related to the rig being required for a
longer period as a direct result of the presence of the undertaker’s works.
For the avoidance of doubt the direct cost of any rig excludes any and all
ancillary cost associated with the use of the rig; impaired helicopter
operations during the period from the commencement of the licensee’s works to
the completion of the licensee’s works, to the extent such operations can be
reasonably demonstrated to have been necessary, to have resulted in
abandonment of a planned flight and resulted in a subsequent delay to
operational activity related to the Johnston Assets; only to the extent not
included in the calculation of costs under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b). any use
of vessels in substitution for impaired helicopter flights subject to the use
of vessels being approved in advance by the undertaker; but in each case only
to the extent that— such costs have been reasonably and properly incurred by
the licensee as a direct result of the presence of the undertaker’s works; the
licensee provides evidence of costs incurred in a form and manner to the
reasonable satisfaction of the undertaker; the licensee and each relevant
contractor, sub-contractor or agent have at all times used best endeavours to
minimise and mitigate the costs; and such costs were not incurred directly or
indirectly in the decommissioning of the exploration well comprised in the
Johnston Assets. “ aviation corridor ” means an 1400m aviation corridor of
clear airspace measured tip to tip from any wind turbine generator shown
coloured blue and annotated and shown as the aviation corridor (along the
route of the Johnston pipeline) on the Johnston protective provisions plan; “
block ” means a block of the United Kingdom Continental Shelf designated as
such on the map deposited at the principal office of the North Sea Transition
Authority; “ coexistence and proximity agreement ” means an agreement entered
on reasonable terms between the undertaker and the licensee in respect of the
undertaker’s works and licensee’s works to reconcile and protect the interests
of the parties as are known at the time to secure the implementation of the
undertaker’s works and the licensee’s works; “ licences ” means United Kingdom
Petroleum Production Licences P686 block 43/27a and P380 block 43/26a; “
licensee ” means the licensee from time to time of the licence; “ licensee’s
works ” means the decommissioning of the Johnston Field in accordance with the
Johnston Decommissioning Programme (Rev B01, March 2022) as approved by the
Offshore Petroleum Regulator for Environment and Decommissioning and as
amended from time to time, but excluding any post-decommissioning monitoring
and evaluation; “ marine corridor ” means a 1000m corridor measured from
centre to centre from any wind turbine generator (along the route of the
Johnston pipeline); “ ministerial statement ” means the written statement
given by the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change to the UK
Parliament regarding Crown Estate Leases for Offshore Renewables Projects on
12 July 2011, or any similar supplementary or replacement policy; “ Johnston
Assets ” means any and all facilities and infrastructure owned, operated,
leased and/or otherwise contracted to the licensee from time to time for the
purposes of the licences including but not limited to one exploration well,
six producer wells, four pipelines and 15 umbilicals located in the Johnston
Field; “ Johnston Field ” means the area to which the licensee’s rights
granted by the licences relate, being at the date hereof, that area shown on
the Johnston protective provisions plan; “ the Johnston protective provisions
plan ” means the plan entitled Johnston protective provisions plan (Harbour)
and certified as the Johnston protective provisions plan for the purposes of
this Part of this Schedule; “ OPRED notice ” means a letter or notice from the
Offshore Petroleum Regulator for Environment and Decommissioning (“ OPRED ”)
confirming the acceptance of the close-out report submitted by or on behalf of
the relevant licensee indicating that OPRED is satisfied that the permanent
decommissioning of the Johnston Assets has been completed; “ relevant
activities ” means all development activity relating to the carrying on of the
undertaker’s and licensee’s businesses within, or adjacent to the aviation
corridor or a WTG exclusion zone, including (but not limited to) the
preparation of development proposals, the submission of applications for
statutory consents associated with those proposals and consultation in respect
thereof, the acquisition of or application for new licence oil or gas blocks;
“ undertaker’s works ” means the offshore works permitted by this Order; “ WTG
exclusion zone ” means an area of 1,600m radius of clear airspace measured
from the centre of each of the Johnston production wellheads and coloured
yellow and annotated and shown as a WTG exclusion zone on the Johnston
protective provisions plan.

###### Restriction on authorised development

3

Prior to the completion of the licensee’s works, no wind turbine generator
shall be erected in the marine corridor, the aviation corridor, or in any WTG
exclusion zone, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the licensee and
the undertaker.

4

In the event the licensee’s works commence prior to the undertaker’s works,
the undertaker must not build, construct, erect or lay any temporary
infrastructure and/or carry out any activities within the marine corridor, the
aviation corridor, or in any WTG exclusion zone that would interfere with the
licensee’s works causing a delay.

###### Coexistence and proximity agreement

5

If, at any time the undertaker plans to undertake the undertaker’s works
and/or any other work which is within five hundred metres (500m) of the
Johnston Assets, the undertaker shall notify the licensee and the undertaker
and the licensee must, unless agreed otherwise, acting reasonably, agree and
enter into a crossing and proximity agreement as soon as reasonably
practicable.

###### Provision of information

6

Without prejudice to any other rights or obligations under this Part of this
Schedule the licensee and the undertaker shall from time to time keep each
other informed of relevant activities such that the licensee and the
undertaker may seek to agree solutions to allow those activities to
successfully co-exist as far as reasonably practicable until completion of
activities required under any statutory decommissioning plan required under
the Petroleum Act 1998 in relation to the licence and taking place within the
areas subject to the licence.

###### Compensation

7

Subject to paragraph 8, the undertaker shall pay any additional costs to the
licensee within three months of receipt of the OPRED notice.

8

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall affect any rights or obligations
or assessment of compensation in accordance with the ministerial statement and
the associated guidance.

###### Arbitration

9

Any difference arising between the undertaker the licensee under this Part
shall be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 39
(arbitration).

  HEDGEROWS

Article 36

##### REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

          (1)       Area         (2)       Location of hedgerow       East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 1a and 1b on
sheet 1 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 2a and 2b on sheet 1 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 3a and 3b on sheet 1 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 4a and 4b on sheets 1 and 2 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 5a and 5b on sheet 2 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 6a and 6b on sheets 2 and 3 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 7a and 7b on sheets 2 and 3 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 8a
and 8b on sheet 3 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding
of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 10a and 10b on sheet 3
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 11a and 11b on sheets 3 and 4 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 12a and 12b on sheets 3 and 4 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 13a and 13b on sheet 4 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 14a and 14b on sheet 4 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 15a and 15b on sheet 5 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 18a and 18b on sheet 6 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan
East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 19a and
19b on sheet 6 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 20a and 20b on sheet 6 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 20c and 20d on sheet 6 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 21a and 21b on sheet 6 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 22a and 22b on sheets 6 and 7 of the tree preservation order
and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 23a and 23b on sheet 7 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan
East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 24a and
24b on sheet 7 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 25a and 25b on sheet 7 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 26a and 26b on sheets 7 and 8 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 27a and 27b on sheets 7 and 8 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 28a and 28b on sheet 8 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 29a and 29b on sheet 8 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 30a and 30b on sheet 8 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 31a and 31b on sheets 8 and 9 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 32a and 32b on sheets 8 and 9 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 33a and 33b on sheets 8 and 9 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 33c and 33d on sheets 8 and 9 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 34a and 34b on sheets 8 and 9 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 35a and 35b on sheet 9 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan
East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 36a and
36b on sheet 9 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 37a and 37b on sheet 9 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 38a and 38b on sheet 9 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 39a and 39b on sheet 10 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 40a and 40b on sheet 10 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 41a and 41b on sheet 10 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 42a
and 42b on sheet 10 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 43a and 43b on
sheet 11 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 43c and 43d on sheet 11
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 44a and 44b on sheets 11 and 12 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 45a and 45b on sheet 12 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 46a and 46b on sheet 12 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 47a and 47b on sheet 13 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 48a and 48b on sheet 13 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 49a
and 49b on sheet 13 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 50a and 50b on
sheet 14 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 51a and 51b on sheet 14
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 52a and 52b on sheet 15 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 53a and 53b on sheet 15 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 54a and 54b on sheet 15 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 55a and 55b on sheet 15 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 56a
and 56b on sheet 15 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 57a and 57b on
sheet 15 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 58a and 58b on sheets 15
and 16 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 59a and 59b on sheets 15
and 16 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 60a and 60b on sheet 16
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 61a and 61b on sheet 16 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 62a and 62b on sheet 16 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 63a and 63b on sheet 16 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 64a and 64b on sheet 16 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 65a
and 65b on sheet 16 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 66a and 66b on
sheet 16 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 67a and 67b on sheet 16
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 73a and 73b on sheets 16 and 17 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown at point 73c on sheet 17 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 74a and 74b on sheet 17 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 75a and 75b on sheet 17 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 76a
and 76b on sheets 17 and 18 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan
East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 77a and
77b on sheet 18 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding
of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 78a and 78b on sheet
18 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 79a and 79b on sheets 18 and 19 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 80a and 80b on sheet 19 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 80c and 80d on sheet 19 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 81a and 81b on sheets 19 and 20 of the tree preservation order
and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 82a and 82b on sheet 20 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 83a
and 83b on sheet 21 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 84a and 84b on
sheet 21 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 85a and 85b on sheet 21
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 86a and 86b on sheet 21 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 87a and 87b on sheet 21 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 88a and 88b on sheet 21 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 129a and 129b on sheet 21 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 89a
and 89b on sheet 22 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 90a and 90b on
sheet 22 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 91a and 91b on sheet 22
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 92a and 92b on sheets 22 and 23 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 93a and 93b on sheets 22 and 23 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 94a and 94b on sheet 23 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 94c and 94d on sheet 23 of the tree preservation
order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown
between points 95a and 95b on sheet 23 of the tree preservation order and
hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between
points 96a and 96b on sheet 23 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow
plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 97a
and 97b on sheet 23 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 98a and 98b on
sheets 23 and 24 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding
of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 99a and 99b on sheets
23 and 24 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 100a and 100b on sheet 24
of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 101a and 101b on sheet 24 of the
tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District
The hedgerow shown between points 101c and 101d on sheet 24 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 102a and 102b on sheet 24 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 105a and 105b on sheet 25 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 106a and 106b on sheet 25 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 107a and 107b on sheet 25 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 108a and 108b on sheets 25 and 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 110a and 110b on sheets 25 and 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 111a and 111b on sheets 25 and 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 112a and 112b on sheets 25 and 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 114a and 114b on sheet 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 115a and 115b on sheet 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 116a and 116b on sheet 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 117a and 117b on sheet 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 118a and 118b on sheet 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 119a and 119b on sheets 26 and 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 120a and 120b on sheets 26 and 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 121a and 121b on sheet 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 121c and 121d on sheet 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 122a and 122b on sheet 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 123a and 123b on sheet 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 124a and 124b on sheets 27 and 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 125a and 125b on sheets 27 and 28 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 126a and 126b on sheets 26, 27 and 28 of the
tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District
The hedgerow shown between points 127a and 127b on sheets 26, 27 and 28 of the
tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District
The hedgerow shown between points 128a and 128b on sheet 27 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan

##### REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS

          (1)       Area         (2)       Location of hedgerow       East
Riding of Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 9a and 9b on
sheet 3 of the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of
Yorkshire District The hedgerow shown between points 16a and 16b on sheet 5 of
the tree preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire
District The hedgerow shown between points 17a and 17b on sheet 6 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 103a and 103b on sheet 24 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 104a and 104b on sheets 24 and 25 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 109a and 109b on sheets 25 and 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan East Riding of Yorkshire District The
hedgerow shown between points 113a and 113b on sheets 25 and 26 of the tree
preservation order and hedgerow plan

DEEMED MARINE LICENCE UNDER THE 2009 ACT - GENERATION ASSETS

Article 33

##### LICENSED MARINE ACTIVITIES

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008 ; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009 ; “ 2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Offshore Marine Habitats
and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ array area ” means the area covered by Work
No. 1 as shown on the offshore works plan; “ array area disposal site ” means
the site to be used for disposal of inert material of natural origin produced
during construction drilling and seabed preparation for foundation works and
cable sandwave clearance to be located within the array area; “ array cable ”
means the network of offshore subsea cables connecting the wind turbine
generators in Work No. 1 and the offshore substations in Work No. 2; “
authorised deposits ” means the substances and articles specified in paragraph
4 of Part 1 of this licence; “ authorised development ” means the development
and associated development described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised
development) of the Order and any other development authorised by this Order
that is development within the meaning of section 32 (meaning of “ development
”) of the 2008 Act; “ authorised scheme ” means Work No. 1 described in
paragraph  3  of Part 1 of this licence or any stage of that work; “ bridge
link ” means a steel truss structure with provision for overhead clearance for
personnel, lighting fixtures and ancillary cabling, which can be used as a
link for interconnection between any combination of permanent offshore
electrical installations and/or offshore accommodation platform; “ buoy ”
means any floating device used for navigational purposes or measurement
purposes, including LIDAR and wave buoys; “ cable crossings ” means a crossing
of existing sub-sea cables or pipelines or other existing infrastructure by a
cable or, where cables run together in parallel, a set of cables, authorised
by this Order together with cable protection; “ cable protection ” means
physical measures for the protection of cables including but not limited to
concrete mattresses, and/or rock placement (including material used for cable
crossings); “ cable protection replenishment ” means the restoration to a
former level or condition of cable protection lost by natural seabed processes
or human activity; “ commence ” means the first carrying out of any licensed
marine activities authorised by this marine licence, save for pre-construction
surveys and monitoring approved under this licence and the activities set out
in paragraph 2(d), and “ commenced ” and “ commencement ” must be construed
accordingly; “ commissioning ” means the process of assuring that all systems
and components of the authorised development are tested to verify that they
function and are operable in accordance with the design objectives,
specifications and operational requirements of the undertaker; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 2 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation – Safeguarding, St George’s House, DIO Head
Office, DMS Whittington, Lichfield, Staffordshire, WS14 9PY and any successor
body to its functions; “ Defra ” means the Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs; “ dropped object procedure form ” means the MMO
notification proforma with reference MLDIR1 for reporting the loss or dumping
of synthetic materials and other refuse at sea or any other format advised in
writing by the MMO; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised to carry
out enforcement duties under Chapter 3 Part 4 (marine licensing) of the 2009
Act; “ environmental statement ” means the document certified as the
environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
European site ” has the meaning given in regulation 27 (meaning of European
site) of the 2017 Regulations; “ gravity base structures ” means a structure
principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a base which tapers
as it rises which rests on the seabed due to its own weight with or without
added ballast or additional skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes,
corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ habitats
of principal importance ” means a habitat designated as being of principal
importance in accordance with section 41 (biodiversity lists and action
(England)) of the Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006 ; “ HAT ”
means highest astronomical tide; “ IHO S44ed5 Order 1a ” means order 1a from
the fifth edition of the International Hydrographic Organisation’s Standards
for Hydrographics Surveys; “ interconnector cables ” means a network of cables
between the offshore substations; “ jacket foundation ” means a lattice type
structure constructed of steel, which may include additional equipment such
as, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platforms; “ JNCC ” means
the Joint Nature Conservation Committee; “ JNCC Guidance ” means the statutory
nature conservation body ‘Guidance for assessing the significance of noise
disturbance against Conservation Objectives of harbour porpoise SACs’ Joint
Nature Conservation Committee Report No.654, May 2020 published in June 2020
as amended, updated or superseded from time to time; “ Kingfisher bulletin ”
means the bulletin published by the Humber Seafood Institute or such other
alternative publication approved in writing by the MMO for the purposes of
this licence; “ Kingfisher Information Service ” means the information service
from non-departmental government body Seafish; “ large offshore transformer
substation ” means the larger version of the offshore transformer substations
assessed in the environment statement; “ LAT ” means lowest astronomical tide;
“ layout principles ” means the document certified as the layout principles by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article  38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ licensed activities ” means
the activities specified in Part 1 of this licence; “ maintain ” includes
inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter and further includes remove,
reconstruct and replace (including replenishment of cable protection) but does
not include the removal, reconstruction or replacement of foundations
associated with the authorised scheme, to the extent assessed in the
environmental statement and “maintenance” must be construed accordingly;
“Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the Marine Management
Organisation, Lancaster House, Hampshire Court, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE4 7YH
who is the body created under the 2009 Act and who is responsible for the
monitoring and enforcement of this licence; “ marine noise registry ” means
the database developed and maintained by JNCC on behalf of Defra to record the
spatial and temporal distribution of impulsive noise generating activities in
UK seas; “ MCA ” means the Maritime and Coastguard Agency, an executive agency
for the Department for Transport; “mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ” means
the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a period of time;
“mean low water springs” or “ MLWS ” means the lowest level which spring tides
reach on average over a period of time; “ monopile foundation ” means a steel
pile, typically cylindrical, driven and/or drilled into the seabed and
associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and
access platforms and equipment; “ mono suction bucket foundation ” means a
steel cylindrical structure which partially or fully penetrates the seabed and
remains in place using its own weight and hydrostatic pressure differential,
and may include additional equipment such as J-tubes; “ offshore accommodation
platform ” means a structure above LAT and attached to the seabed by means of
a foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter platform (including bird
deterrents), containing housing accommodation, storage, workshop, auxiliary
equipment, and facilities for operating, maintaining and controlling the wind
turbine generators and offshore electrical installations; “ offshore HVAC
booster station ” means a structure above LAT and attached to the seabed by
means of a foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter platform
(including bird deterrents), containing— electrical equipment required to
provide reactive power compensation; and housing accommodation, storage,
workshop, auxiliary equipment, and facilities for operating, maintaining and
controlling the substation; “ the offshore Order limits and grid coordinates
plan ” means the plan certified as the offshore Order limits and grid
coordinates plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under
article  38  (certification of plans and documents etc.); “ Offshore
Renewables Protocol for Reporting Archaeological Discoveries ” means the
Offshore Renewables Protocol for Reporting Archaeological Discoveries, the
Crown Estate (2014),  Protocol for Archaeological Discoveries: Offshore
Renewables Projects,  Salisbury, Wessex Archaeology as amended, updated or
superseded from time to time; “ offshore transformer substation ” means a
structure above LAT and attached to the seabed by means of a foundation, with
one or more decks and a helicopter platform (including bird deterrents),
containing— electrical equipment required to switch, transform, convert
electricity generated at the wind turbine generators to a higher voltage and
provide reactive power compensation; and housing accommodation, storage,
workshop auxiliary equipment, radar and facilities for operating, maintaining
and controlling the substation or wind turbine generators; “ offshore works
plan ” means the plan certified as the offshore works plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order under article  38  (certification of plans
and documents etc.); “ operation ” means the undertaking of the licensed
activities which are not part of the construction, commissioning or
decommissioning of the authorised development; “ Order ” means the Hornsea
Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023; “ the Order limits ” means the limits
shown on the offshore Order limits and grid coordinates plans and the onshore
Order limits plan within which the authorised scheme may be carried out, whose
grid coordinates seaward of MHWS are set out in paragraph  5  of Part 1 of
this Schedule; “ outline ornithological monitoring plan ” means the document
certified as the outline ornithological monitoring plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article 38 (certification of plans
and documents etc.); “ outline cable specification and installation plan ”
means the document certified as the outline cable specification and
installation plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article  38  (certification of plans and documents etc.); “ outline
marine mammal mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the
outline marine mammal mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents etc.); “ outline marine monitoring plan ” means the document
certified as the outline marine monitoring plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents etc.); “ outline marine written scheme of investigation ” means the
document certified as the outline marine written scheme of investigation by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  38
(certification of plans and documents etc.); “ outline offshore operations and
maintenance plan ” means the document certified as the outline offshore
operations and maintenance plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents etc.); “
outline southern north sea special area of conservation site integrity plan ”
means the document certified as the outline southern north sea special area of
conservation site integrity plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
the Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents etc.); “
pin piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the
seabed to secure jacket foundations; “ pontoon gravity base type 1 structure ”
means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a
base made up of up to two rectangular pontoons which rests on the seabed due
to its own weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and
associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and
access platform(s) and equipment; “ pontoon gravity base type 2 structure ”
means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a
base made up of a pontoon arranged in a rectangle around an open centre which
rests on the seabed due to its own weight with or without added ballast or
additional skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “pro–rata annex”
means the document certified as the pro–rata annex by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents etc.); “ small offshore transformer substation ” means the smaller
version of the offshore transformer substations assessed in the environment
statement; “ statutory historic body ” means Historic England or its successor
in function; “ statutory nature conservation body ” means the appropriate
nature conservation body as defined in Regulation 5 of the Conservation of
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 or its equivalent in the 2017
Regulations; “ suction bucket ” means a steel cylindrical structure attached
to the legs of a jacket foundation which partially or fully penetrates the
seabed and remains in place using its own weight and hydrostatic pressure
differential; “ transition piece ” means the metal structure attached to the
top of the foundation where the base of the wind turbine generator is
connected and may include additional equipment such as J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems, boat access systems, access platforms, craneage, radar,
electrical transmission equipment and associated equipment; “ Trinity House ”
means the Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; “ UK Hydrographic
Office ” means the UK Hydrographic Office of Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset,
TA1 2DN; “ undertaker ” means Orsted Hornsea Project Four Limited (company
number 08584182); “ vessel ” means every description of vessel, however
propelled or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft, a personal
watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil vessel, a
hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing constructed or
adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is at the time
in, on or over water; “ wind turbine generator ” means a structure comprising
a tower, rotor with three blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary
electrical and other equipment which may include J-tube(s), transition piece,
access and rest platforms, access ladders, boat access systems, corrosion
protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, helicopter landing
facilities and other associated equipment, fixed to a foundation or transition
piece; “ working day ” means a day which is not a weekend, bank holiday or
public holiday in England; and “Work No. 2” means— up to six small offshore
transformer substations each fixed to the seabed by one of monopile
foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, gravity base structures or
jacket foundations and which may be connected to each other or one of the
offshore accommodation platforms within Work No. 1(b) by a bridge link; up to
three large offshore transformer substations each fixed to the seabed by one
of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, jacket foundations,
box–type gravity base structures, gravity base structures, pontoon gravity
base type 1 structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures, and which
may be connected to each other or one of the offshore accommodation platforms
within Work No. 1(b) by a bridge link; in the event that the mode of
transmission is HVDC, either up to three large HVDC converter substations or
up to six small HVDC converter substations fixed to the seabed within the area
shown on the offshore works plan by one of monopile foundations, mono suction
bucket foundations, jacket foundations, box–type gravity base structures,
gravity base structures, pontoon gravity base type 1 structures, or pontoon
gravity base type 2 structures; a network of interconnector cables; up to six
cable circuits between Work No. 2 and Work No. 3, and between Work No. 3 and
Work No. 5 consisting of offshore export cables along routes within the Order
limits seaward of MLWS including one or more cable crossings; and up to eight
temporary horizontal directional drilling exit pits and associated cofferdams.
“Work No. 3(aA)” means, in the event that the mode of transmission is HVAC, up
to three offshore HVAC booster stations fixed to the seabed within the area
shown on the offshore works plan by one of monopile foundations, mono suction
bucket foundations, jacket foundations, gravity base structures, pontoon
gravity base type 1 structures or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures; and
“ UK Standard Marking Schedule for Offshore Installations ” means the Standard
Marking Schedule for Offshore Installations published by the Department of
Energy & Climate Change with reference DECC 04/11.

1.2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

1.3

Unless otherwise indicated—

1.3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time;

1.3.b

all co-ordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

1.4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary point of contact with the organisations listed below and the address
for returns and correspondence are—

1.4.a

Civil Aviation Authority

Aviation House

Beehive Ringroad

Crawley

West Sussex

1.4.b

Historic England

37 Tanner Road

York

YO1 6WP

1.4.c

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing Team

Lancaster House Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

1.4.d

Marine Management Organisation (Local Office)

Room 13, Ground Floor

Crosskill House

Mill Lane

Beverley

HU17 9JB

Tel: 0208 026 0519;

1.4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2433;

1.4.f

Ministry of Defence (as requested by Defence Infrastructure Organisation –
Safeguarding)

St George’s House

DIO Head Office

DMS Whittington

Lichfield

Staffordshire

WS14 9PY;

1.4.g

Natural England

4th Floor

Foss House

1-2 Peasholme Green

York

YO1 7PX

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

1.4.h

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

1.4.i

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900.

1.5

Unless otherwise advised in writing by the MMO, the address for electronic
communication with the MMO for the purposes of this licence is
marine.consents@marinemanagement.org.uk , or where contact to the Local Office
if the MMO is required,  beverley@marinemanagement.org.uk .

1.6

Unless otherwise advised in writing by the MMO, the Marine Case Management
System (“ MCMS ”) must be used for all licence returns or applications to vary
this licence. The MCMS address is:
https://marinelicensing.marinemanagement.org.uk/  .

1.7

Any reference in this licence or the documents certified by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order under article 38 (certification of plans
and documents, etc.) to a dimension measured from LAT may be converted to a
measurement from HAT by subtracting 4.71m from the measurement from LAT.

###### Details of licensed marine activities

2

Subject to the licence conditions at Part 2, this licence authorises the
undertaker (and any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out
the following licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable
marine activities) of the 2009 Act—

2.a

the deposit at sea within the Order limits seaward of MHWS of the substances
and articles specified in paragraph  4  below and within Work No. 1 when
combined with the disposal authorised within the array area disposal site by
the deemed marine licence granted under Schedule 12 of the Order, of up to
7,211,601 cubic metres (being a maximum, not an approximate upper figure) of
inert material of natural origin produced during construction drilling or
seabed preparation for foundation works and cable installation preparation
works within the array area disposal site;

2.b

the construction of works in or over the sea and/or on or under the seabed;

2.c

dredging for the purposes of seabed preparation for foundation works and/or
electrical circuit works;

2.d

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation;

2.e

boulder clearance works by displacement ploughing or subsea grab technique or
any other comparable method;

2.f

removal of static fishing equipment; and

2.g

site preparation works.

3

Such activities described in paragraph  2  are authorised in relation to the
construction, maintenance and operation of—

######### Work No. 1—

3.a

an offshore wind turbine generating station with a gross electrical output of
over 100 megawatts comprising up to 180 wind turbine generators each fixed to
the seabed by one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations or
jacket foundations;

3.b

one offshore accommodation platform fixed to the seabed within the area shown
on the offshore works plan by one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket
foundations, a gravity base structure or jacket foundation and which may be
connected to one of the offshore substations within Work No. 2 by a bridge
link; and

3.c

a network of cables between the wind turbine generators, and between the wind
turbine generators and Work No. 2, including one or more cable crossings.

In connection with such Work No. 1 and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development within
the meaning of section 115(2) (development for which development consent may
be granted) of the 2008 Act comprising such other works as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the relevant part of the
authorised scheme and which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the
environmental statement and the provisions of this licence including—

3.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

3.b

cable protection measures such as the placement of rock and/or concrete
mattresses; and

3.c

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating or
anchoring vessels in the construction and/or maintenance of the authorised
development.

4

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

4.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

4.b

stone and rock;

4.c

concrete;

4.d

sand and gravel;

4.e

plastic and synthetic;

4.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works and cable installation
preparation works;

4.g

weights used for the calibration of vessels, consisting of a hessian sack,
metal shackles or chains; and

4.h

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

5

The grid coordinates for that part of the authorised development comprising
Work No. 1 are specified below and more particularly on the offshore Order
limits and grid coordinates plan—

Point ID Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point ID Latitude (DMS) Longitude
(DMS) 1 54° 0′ 23.321″ N 1° 12′ 48.805″ E 5 54° 12′ 37.143″ N 0° 58′ 31.095″ E
2 54° 7′ 24.985″ N 0° 59′ 54.702″ E 6 54° 12′ 17.413″ N 1° 12′ 18.263″ E 3 54°
9′ 13.497″ N 1° 0′ 43.850″ E 7 54° 4′ 13.012″ N 1° 30′ 5.270″ E 4 54° 10′
49.480″ N 0° 58′ 21.782″ E 8 53° 59′ 15.598″ N 1° 17′ 20.651″ E

###### General provisions

6

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 (approval of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004
Act, including any modification to the programme under section 108 (reviews
and revisions of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004 Act, and the
completion of such programme has been confirmed by the Secretary of State in
writing.

7

The provisions of section 72 (variation, suspension, revocation and transfer)
of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that the provisions of section
72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the licence only apply to a transfer
not falling within article  5  (benefit of the Order).

8

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this Schedule, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

9

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details, plan or scheme must
be in accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the
environmental statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to
immaterial changes where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
MMO that it is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially
greater environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental
statement.

##### CONDITIONS

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

The total number of wind turbine generators comprised in the authorised scheme
must not exceed 180.

1.2

Subject to sub–paragraph  (3) , each wind turbine generator forming part of
the authorised scheme must not—

1.2.a

exceed a height of 370 metres when measured from LAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

1.2.b

exceed a rotor diameter of 305 metres;

1.2.c

be less than 42.43 metres from LAT to the lowest point of the rotating blade;
and

1.2.d

be less than 810 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in all
directions.

1.3

The minimum distance in sub-paragraph  1(2)(d)  between each wind turbine
generator is to be measured from the centre point of the wind turbine
generator.

1.4

Wind turbine generator foundation structures forming part of the authorised
scheme must be one of the following foundation options—

1.4.a

monopile foundations;

1.4.b

mono suction bucket foundations; or

1.4.c

jacket foundations.

1.5

No wind turbine generator—

1.5.a

jacket foundation employing pin piles forming part of the authorised scheme
may—

1.5.a.i

have a pin pile diameter of greater than four meters; and

1.5.a.ii

employ more than 16 pin piles per jacket foundation; and

1.5.b

monopile foundation forming part of the authorised scheme may have a diameter
greater than 15 metres.

1.6

The total seabed footprint area for wind turbine generator foundations must
not exceed—

1.6.a

302,180 square metres excluding scour protection; and

1.6.b

985,240 square metres including scour protection.

1.7

The total volume of scour protection material for wind turbine generator
foundations must not exceed 1,582,040 cubic metres.

1.8

The wind turbine generators comprised in the authorised scheme must be
constructed in accordance with the parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

2

2.1

The total number of offshore accommodation platforms forming part of the
authorised scheme must not exceed one.

2.2

The dimensions of any offshore accommodation platform forming part of the
authorised scheme must not exceed—

2.2.a

64 metres in height when measured from LAT;

2.2.b

60 metres in length; and

2.2.c

60 metres in width.

2.3

Offshore accommodation platform foundation structures forming part of the
authorised scheme must be one of either monopile foundations, mono suction
bucket foundations, gravity base structures, jacket foundations or box–type
gravity base structures.

2.4

No offshore accommodation platform—

2.4.a

jacket foundation employing pin piles forming part of the authorised scheme
may—

2.4.a.i

have a pin pile diameter of greater than four metres; and

2.4.a.ii

employ more than 16 pin piles per jacket foundation; and

2.4.b

monopile foundation forming part of the authorised scheme may have a diameter
greater than 15 metres.

2.5

The total permanent seabed footprint area for offshore accommodation platform
foundations must not exceed—

2.5.a

5,625 square metres excluding scour protection; and

2.5.b

30,625 square metres including scour protection.

2.6

The offshore accommodation platform comprised in the authorised scheme must be
constructed in accordance with parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

2.7

A bridge link forming part of the authorised scheme must be installed at a
minimum height of 20 metres when measured from LAT.

3

3.1

The total length of the cables in Work No. 1(c) and the volume of their cable
protection (including cable crossings) must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection Work No. 1(c) 600 kilometres 624,000 square
metres

3.2

The total number of cable crossings associated with the cables in Work No.
1(c) when combined with Work No. 2(d) as licenced under the licence in
Schedule 12 of the Order must not exceed 32.

3.3

The cables and cable circuits comprised in the authorised development must be
constructed in accordance with the parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

###### Maintenance of the authorised development

4

4.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this licence or an agreement made under this licence provides
otherwise.

4.2

Maintenance works include but are not limited to—

4.2.a

major wind turbine component or offshore accommodation platform replacement;

4.2.b

painting and applying other coatings to wind turbine generators or offshore
accommodation platforms;

4.2.c

bird waste and marine growth removal;

4.2.d

cable remedial burial;

4.2.e

cable repairs and replacement;

4.2.f

cable protection replenishment for a maximum period of ten years post
construction;

4.2.g

access ladder and boat landing replacement;

4.2.h

wind turbine generator and accommodation platform anode replacement; and

4.2.i

J-tube repair/replacement.

4.3

In undertaking activities under condition  4(2)(f) , the undertaker must not
reduce water depth by more than 5% unless agreed with the MMO in writing.

4.4

An operation and maintenance plan substantially in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan shall be submitted to the MMO for
approval in consultation with the relevant SNCB at least six months prior to
the commencement of the operation of the licensed activities. All operation
and maintenance activities shall be carried out in accordance with the
approved plan.

###### Vessels under the undertaker’s control

5

5.1

The undertaker must issue to operators of vessels under its control operating
within the Order limits a code of conduct to prevent collision risk or injury
to marine mammals.

5.2

The undertaker must ensure appropriate co-ordination of vessels within its
control operating within the Order limits so as to reduce collision risk to
other vessels including advisory safe passing distances for vessels.

###### Extension of time periods

6

Any time period given in this licence given to either the undertaker or the
MMO may be extended with the agreement of the other party in writing such
agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Notifications and inspections

7

7.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

7.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

7.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
16 ; and

7.1.a.ii

the masters and offshore operations managers responsible for the vessels
notified to the MMO in accordance with condition  16 ;

7.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must provide a completed confirmation form to the MMO
confirming receipt of this licence.

7.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition  16  are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

7.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

7.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

7.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

7.3.c

on board each vessel and at the office of any offshore operations managers
with responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are
to be made.

7.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph  (3)(b)  above.

7.5

The undertaker must ensure that a copy of this licence and any subsequent
revisions or amendments has been read and understood by the masters of any
vessel being used to carry on any licensed activity set out in condition
16(3), and that a copy of this licence is held on board any such vessel.

7.6

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

7.7

The undertaker must inform the MMO Local Office in writing at least five days
prior to the commencement of the licensed activities and within five days of
the completion of the licensed activity.

7.8

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of details
regarding the vessel routes, timings and locations relating to the
construction of the authorised scheme or relevant stage—

7.8.a

at least fourteen days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness data; and

7.8.b

as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event no later than 24 hours
after completion of construction of all offshore activities,

confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO in writing within
five days.

7.9

The undertaker must ensure that a local notification to mariners is issued at
least 14 days prior to the commencement of the authorised scheme or any
relevant stage advising of the start date of Work No. 1 and the expected
vessel routes from the construction ports to the relevant location. Copies of
all notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA and UK Hydrographic Office within
five days of issue.

7.10

The undertaker must ensure that local notifications to mariners are updated
and reissued at weekly intervals during construction activities and at least
five days before any planned operations and maintenance works and the notices
must be supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts agreed with the MCA in
accordance with the construction and monitoring programme approved under
deemed marine licence condition 13(1)(b) and monitoring plan approved under
condition 13(1)(f). Copies of all local notifications must be provided to the
MMO and UK Hydrographic Office within five days of issue, save for in the case
of a notice relating to operations and maintenance, which must be provided
within 24 hours of issue.

7.11

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office of the commencement
(within fourteen days), progress and completion of construction (within
fourteen days) of the licensed activities in order that all necessary
amendments to nautical and aeronautical charts are made and the undertaker
must send a copy of such notifications to the MMO within five days of the
notification.

7.12

In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of, the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS or any part thereof, excluding the exposure of cables, the
undertaker must as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours
following the undertaker becoming aware of any such damage, destruction or
decay, notify the MMO, the MCA, Trinity House, the Kingfisher Information
Service and the UK Hydrographic Office.

7.13

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must
within three days following identification of a potential cable exposure,
notify mariners and inform the Kingfisher Information Service of the location
and extent of exposure. Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO, the
MCA, Trinity House and the UK Hydrographic Office within five days.

7.14

The undertaker must notify the MMO in writing a minimum of five days in
advance of the commencement of each discrete incident of cable repair,
replacement, or protection replenishment activity. Such a notification must
include proposed timings and a description of proposed methodologies.

7.15

The undertaker must ensure that the MMO, the MMO Local Office, local mariners,
local fishermen’s organisations and the Source Data Receipt Team at the UK
Hydrographic Office, Taunton, Somerset, TA1 2DN (sdr@ukho.gov.uk) are notified
within five days of completion of each instance of cable repair, replacement
or protection replenishment activity.

###### Aids to navigation

8

8.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning of the authorised scheme seaward
of MHWS exhibit such lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to
navigation, and take such other steps for the prevention of danger to
navigation as Trinity House may from time to time direct.

8.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning of the authorised schemet
seaward of MHWS keep Trinity House and the MMO informed in writing of progress
of the authorised scheme seaward of MHWS including the following—

8.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

8.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

8.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

8.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation in accordance with the frequencies set out in the aids to
navigation management plan agreed pursuant to condition  13(1)(i)  using the
reporting system provided by Trinity House.

8.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning of the authorised scheme seaward
of MHWS notify Trinity House and the MMO in writing of any failure of the aids
to navigation and the timescales and plans for remedying such failures, as
soon as possible and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming
aware of any such failure.

8.5

In the event that the provisions of condition  7(12)  are invoked, the
undertaker must lay down such buoys, exhibit such lights and take such other
steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by Trinity House.

8.6

Any jack up barges or vessels utilised during the licensed activities, when
jacked up, must exhibit signals in accordance with the UK Standard Marking
Schedule for Offshore Installations.

###### Colouring of structures

9

9.1

The undertaker must colour all structures yellow (colour code RAL 1023) from
at least highest astronomical tide to a height directed by Trinity House, or
must colour the structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

9.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (1)  above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must ensure that the wind turbine generators are painted light grey
(colour code RAL 7035).

###### Aviation safety

10

10.1

The undertaker must exhibit such lights, with such shape, colour and character
as are required in writing by Air Navigation Order 2016  and determined
necessary for aviation safety in consultation with the Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding and as directed by the Civil Aviation Authority.
Lighting installed specifically to meet Ministry of Defence aviation safety
requirements must remain operational for the life of the authorised
development unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Ministry of Defence.

10.2

The undertaker must notify the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Safeguarding, the Civil Aviation Authority and the MMO, at least 14 days prior
to the commencement of the licensed activities, in writing of the following
information—

10.2.a

the date of the commencement of the licensed activities;

10.2.b

the date any wind turbine generators are to be installed;

10.2.c

the maximum height of any construction equipment or vessels to be used;

10.2.d

the maximum heights of any wind turbine generator and offshore accommodation
platform to be constructed (including any antennae);

10.2.e

the latitude and longitude of each wind turbine generator and offshore
accommodation platform to be constructed,

and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding and the Civil
Aviation Authority must be notified of any changes to the information supplied
under this paragraph of this condition and of the completion of the
construction of the authorised scheme. Copies of notifications must be
provided to the MMO.

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

11

11.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO all chemicals used in the
construction of the authorised scheme must be selected from the List of
Notified Chemicals approved for use by the offshore oil and gas industry under
the Offshore Chemicals Regulations 2002  (as amended) as maintained by the
Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science.

11.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with relevant guidelines
approved by Health and Safety Executive.

11.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

11.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under the Order, by submission of a disposal return by
31 January each year for the months August to January inclusive, and by 31
July each year for the months February to July inclusive.

11.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
produced during the drilling installation of or seabed preparation for
foundations, and drilling mud is disposed of within the Order limits seaward
of MHWS.

11.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

11.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the MMO Local Office in writing within 48 hours of becoming aware of it and if
the MMO, in consultation with the MCA and Trinity House, reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it at its own expense.

11.8

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the marine environment through the freeing ports.

11.9

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported in writing to the MMO, Marine Pollution
Response Team in accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan agreed
under condition  13(1)(d)(i) .

11.10

All dropped objects within the Order limits must be reported to the MMO using
the dropped object procedure form as soon as reasonably practicable following
the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the dropped object
procedure form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be carried out by the
undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so and the MMO may
require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the undertaker’s expense
if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

12

12.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to deposit the authorised deposits within or
outside of the Order limits because the safety of human life and/or of the
vessel is threatened, within 48 hours full details of the circumstances of the
deposit must be notified to the MMO in the manner provided in condition
11(10) .

12.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

13

13.1

The licensed activities for each stage of construction of the authorised
scheme must not commence until the following (insofar as relevant to that
activity or stage of activity) has been submitted to and approved in writing
by the MMO, in consultation with, where relevant, Trinity House, the MCA, UK
Hydrographic Office and relevant SNCB—

13.1.a

A design plan, prepared in accordance with the layout principles at a scale of
between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, or in such other format as may be appropriate,
including detailed representation on the most suitably scaled chart, which
shows for the relevant stage—

13.1.a.i

the proposed location, including grid co-ordinates of the centre point of the
proposed location for each wind turbine generator, and offshore accommodation
platform within the relevant stage, subject to any micro-siting required due
to anthropological constraints, environmental constraints or difficult ground
conditions discovered post approval under this condition and choice of
foundation types for all wind turbine generators and offshore accommodation
platforms within the relevant stage;

13.1.a.ii

the number, specifications and dimensions of the wind turbine generators to be
installed within the relevant stage;

13.1.a.iii

the length and arrangement of cable comprising Work No. 1(c) within the
relevant stage;

13.1.a.iv

the dimensions of all monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations,
jacket foundations or gravity base structures (for the offshore accommodation
platform only) within the relevant stage; and

13.1.a.v

any exclusion zones or micro-siting requirements identified in any mitigation
project pursuant to sub-paragraph  13(2)(d)  or relating to any habitats of
principal importance identified as part of surveys undertaken in accordance
with condition  17 ;

to ensure conformity with the description of Work No. 1 and compliance with
conditions  1 ,  2  and  3  above;

13.1.b

a construction programme to include details for the relevant stage of—

13.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

13.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works; and

13.1.b.iii

an indicative written construction programme for all wind turbine generators,
offshore accommodation platforms and cable comprised in the works at paragraph
2 to  3(b)  of Part 1 (licensed marine activities) of this Schedule (insofar
as not shown in paragraph  (ii)  above),

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO;

13.1.c

a construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details for the relevant
stage of—

13.1.c.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation and cable installation works and having regard to any mitigation
scheme pursuant to sub-paragraph  13(1)(g) ;

13.1.c.ii

advisory safe passing distances for vessels around construction sites;

13.1.c.iii

cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

13.1.c.iv

contractors;

13.1.c.v

vessels and vessels transit corridors;

13.1.c.vi

codes of conduct for vessel operators;

13.1.c.vii

associated ancillary works;

13.1.c.viii

guard vessels to be employed;

13.1.c.ix

details of means to address impacts on European sites, habitats of principal
importance and any international or nationally designated sites, where
relevant; and

13.1.c.x

measures to ensure appropriate co-ordination with the Marine Helicopter
Coordination Centre;

13.1.d

a construction project environmental management and monitoring plan covering
the period of construction for the relevant stage to include details of—

13.1.d.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with and report any spills and collision incidents of the
authorised scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

13.1.d.ii

a chemical risk review to include information regarding how and when chemicals
are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised best
practice guidance;

13.1.d.iii

a marine biosecurity plan detailing how the risk of introduction and spread of
invasive non-native species will be minimised;

13.1.d.iv

waste management and disposal arrangements;

13.1.d.v

a vessel management plan, to determine vessel routing to and from construction
sites and ports, to include a code of conduct for vessel operators; and

13.1.d.vi

the appointment and responsibilities of a company fisheries liaison officer;

13.1.e

a scour protection management plan for the relevant stage providing details of
the need, type, sources, quantity and installation methods for scour
protection, which must be updated and resubmitted in writing for approval if
changes to it are proposed following cable laying operations;

13.1.f

details for the relevant stage of proposed pre-construction monitoring
surveys, construction monitoring, post-construction monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with conditions  17 ,  18  and  19 ;

13.1.g

in the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used for the relevant stage, a piling marine mammal mitigation protocol for
that stage, in accordance with the outline marine mammal mitigation protocol,
the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine mammals, including
details of soft start procedures with specified duration periods following
current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory nature conservation
bodies;

13.1.h

a cable specification and installation plan for the relevant stage which
accords with the principles of the outline cable specification and
installation plan, to include—

13.1.h.i

technical specification of offshore cables (including fibre optic cable) below
MHWS within that stage, including a desk-based assessment of attenuation of
electromagnetic field strengths, shielding and cable burial depth in
accordance with good industry practice;

13.1.h.ii

a detailed cable laying plan for the Order limits within that stage,
incorporating a burial risk assessment encompassing the identification of any
cable protection that exceeds 5% of navigable depth referenced to Chart Datum
and, in the event that any area of cable protection exceeding 5% of navigable
depth is identified, details of any steps (to be determined following
consultation with the MCA and Trinity House) to be taken to ensure existing
and future safe navigation is not compromised or similar such assessment to
ascertain suitable burial depths and cable laying techniques, including cable
protection;

13.1.h.iii

proposals for the volume and areas of cable protection to be used for each
cable crossing, and proposals for timing and methodology for reporting on
actual volumes and areas post construction within that stage; and

13.1.h.iv

proposals for monitoring offshore cables within that stage including cable
protection during the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme which
includes a risk based approach to the management of unburied or shallow buried
cables;

13.1.i

an aids to navigation management plan for that stage to be agreed in writing
by the MMO following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of
how the undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition  8  relating
to that stage for the lifetime of the authorised scheme;

13.1.j

an ornithological monitoring plan for the relevant stage which accords with
the principles set out in the outline ornithological monitoring plan setting
out the circumstances in which ornithological monitoring will be required and
the monitoring to be carried out in such circumstances.

13.2

Subject to condition  13(3) , the licensed activities or any relevant stage of
those activities must not commence unless no later than six months prior to
the commencement of the relevant stage a marine written scheme of
archaeological investigation for the stage in construction has been submitted
to and approved by the MMO in writing, in accordance with the outline marine
written scheme of investigation, and in accordance with industry good
practice, in consultation with the statutory historic body to include—

13.2.a

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

13.2.b

a method statement for further site investigation including any specifications
for geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

13.2.c

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within six months of any survey being completed;

13.2.d

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones prior to construction;

13.2.e

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction,
including provision of a report on such monitoring;

13.2.f

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the National Record of the Historic
Environment, by submitting a Historic England OASIS (‘online access to the
index of archaeological investigations’) form with a digital copy of the
report within six months of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme, and to notify the MMO that the OASIS form has been submitted to the
National Record of the Historic Environment within two weeks of submission;

13.2.g

a reporting and recording protocol, designed in reference to the Offshore
Renewables Protocol for Reporting Archaeological Discoveries as set out by the
Crown Estate and reporting of any wreck or wreck material during construction,
operation and decommissioning of the authorised scheme; and

13.2.h

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

13.3

Pre-construction archaeological investigations and pre-commencement material
operations which involve intrusive seabed works must only take place in
accordance with a written scheme of investigation specific to the relevant
pre-construction activities (which must accord with the details set out in the
outline marine written scheme of investigation) which has been submitted to
and approved by the MMO in consultation with the statutory historic body.

13.4

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive monopile foundations must
not exceed 5,000kJ and the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive pin pile
foundations must not exceed 3,000kJ.

13.5

No more than two vessels may be engaged at any time in activities related to
piling for the licenced activities. There will only be a maximum installation
of two piled foundations within a 24-hour period. It is possible for
installation of the two piled foundations to occur concurrently i.e. within a
24-hour period at up to two locations within the area of Work No. 3(a) or up
to two locations within the array. The two piled foundation locations may also
be piled simultaneously.

13.6

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until a fisheries coexistence and liaison plan in accordance with the outline
fisheries coexistence and liaison plan has been submitted to and approved by
the MMO in writing.

13.7

The undertaker must, before submitting any pre-construction plans and
documentation required under this condition, provide a copy of the plans and
documentation to any other undertaker to whom part of the benefit of this
Order has been transferred or leased pursuant to article  5  (benefit of the
order) of the Order.

13.8

The undertaker to whom part of the benefit of the Order has been transferred
or leased pursuant to article  5  (benefit of the order) must provide any
comments on the plans and documentation to the undertaker within 14 days of
receipt.

13.9

The undertaker and any other undertaker must participate in liaison meetings
as requested from time to time by the MMO in writing in advance and must
consider such matters as are determined by the MMO relating to the efficient
operation of a deemed marine licence issued under this Order (including as
varied or transferred).

14

14.1

Except where otherwise stated or agreed in writing with the MMO, each
programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved under
condition  13  (save for that required under condition  13(1)(f) ) must be
submitted for approval at least six months prior to the intended commencement
of the relevant stage of the licensed activities.

14.2

The pre-construction monitoring surveys, construction monitoring, post-
construction monitoring and related reporting required under condition
13(1)(f)  must be submitted in accordance with the following, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the MMO—

14.2.a

at least six months prior to the first survey of the relevant stage, detail of
any pre–construction surveys and an outline of all proposed monitoring;

14.2.b

at least six months prior to construction of the relevant stage, detail on
construction monitoring; and

14.2.c

at least six months prior to commissioning of the relevant stage, detail of
post-construction (and operational) monitoring.

14.3

The MMO must determine an application for approval made under condition  13
within a period of six months commencing on the date the application is
received by the MMO, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the undertaker
such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

14.4

The licensed activities for the relevant stage must be carried out in
accordance with the approved plans, protocols, statements, schemes and details
approved under condition  13 , unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

14.5

The plans, protocols, statements, schemes and details submitted under
condition 13 must ensure that any residual effects fall within the scope of
those predicted in the environmental statement.

###### Offshore safety management

15

No stage of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that stage of the authorised scheme
adequately addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised
scheme contained within MGN654 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations
(OREIs) – Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response
Issues” and its annexes.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

16

16.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

16.1.a

the name, company number, address and function of any agent, contractor or
sub-contractor appointed to engage in the licensed activities not less than
ten working days prior to such agent or contractor commencing any licensed
activity; and

16.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a list of the
vessels currently and to be used in relation to the licensed activities,
including the master’s name, vessel type, vessel IMO number and vessel owner
or operating company.

16.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

16.3

The undertaker must notify the MMO in writing not less than 24 hours prior to
the commencement of major component exchanges, ladder replacements or cable
related works—

16.3.a

any agents, contractors or subcontractors that will carry out such works; and

16.3.b

any vessel proposed to be used for such works, including the master’s name,
vessel type, vessel IMO number and vessel owner or operating company.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

17

17.1

The undertaker must in discharging condition  13(1)(f)  for each stage of
construction submit a monitoring plan or plans for that stage in accordance
with an outline marine monitoring plan for written approval by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory bodies, which must contain details of
proposed surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format
and content for a pre-construction baseline report and—

17.1.a

the survey proposals must be in accordance with the principles set out in the
outline marine monitoring plan and must specify each survey’s objectives and
explain how it will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison
with the post-construction position or will enable the validation or otherwise
of key predictions in the environmental statement; and

17.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the preconstruction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

17.2

Subject to receipt from the undertaker of specific proposals pursuant to this
condition, the pre-construction survey proposals must comprise, in outline—

17.2.a

a full sea floor coverage swath–bathymetry survey that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a, of the Order limits and a buffer outside to—

17.2.a.i

determine the location, extent and composition of any biogenic or geogenic
reef features, as set out within the outline marine monitoring plan;

17.2.a.ii

inform future navigation risk assessments as part of the cable specification
and installation plan; and

17.2.a.iii

inform the identification of any archaeological exclusion zone and post
consent monitoring of any such archaeological exclusion zone;

17.2.b

any ornithological monitoring required by the ornithological monitoring plans
submitted in accordance with condition  13(1)(j) .

17.2.c

a bathymetric survey that meets the requirements of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a of the
area within the following coordinates—

Development area node point WGS84 UTM Zone 31N (metres) WGS84 (DMS) WGS84
(decimal degrees) Easting Northing Latitude Longitude Latitude Longitude 1
401818 5992480 54° 4′ 16.157″ N 1° 29′ 58.386″ E 54.07115 1.49955 2 411109
5984944 54° 0′ 18.479″ N 1° 38′ 37.320″ E 54.00513 1.64370 3 397695 5985627
54° 0′ 31.626″ N 1° 26′ 19.993″ E 54.00878 1.43889 4 397800 5978992 53° 56′
57.085″ N 1° 26′ 33.766″ E 53.94919 1.44271 5 387657 5983579 53° 59′ 17.868″ N
1° 17′ 11.556″ E 53.98830 1.28654 6 401818 5992480 54° 4′ 16.157″ N 1° 29′
58.386″ E 54.07115 1.49955

17.3

The pre-construction survey(s) carried out pursuant to condition 17(2)(a)(ii)
and 17(2)(c) must fulfil the requirements of MGN654 and its supporting
‘Hydrographic Guidelines for Offshore Renewable Energy Developer’ (as
relevant).

17.4

The undertaker must carry out the surveys specified within the monitoring plan
or plans in accordance with that plan or plans, unless otherwise agreed in
writing by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
conservation body.

17.5

Following completion of a survey carried out pursuant to this condition and
prior to construction of the relevant stage, the undertaker must provide a
report and full density data of the survey outcomes to the MMO, the relevant
statutory nature conservation body, the MCA and UK Hydrographic Office as
relevant.

###### Construction monitoring

18

18.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(f) , for each stage of
construction submit a construction monitoring plan or plans for that stage in
accordance with an outline marine monitoring plan for written approval by the
MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body,
which must include details of any proposed construction monitoring, including
methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content and timings for
providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must be in accordance
with the principles set out in the outline marine monitoring plan and must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

18.2

Subject to receipt from the undertaker of specific proposals pursuant to this
condition the construction monitoring plan must include, in outline—

18.2.a

vessel traffic monitoring by automatic identification system for the duration
of the construction period, with provision for a report to be submitted to the
MMO, Trinity House, and the MCA annually during the construction period for
the authorised development; and

18.2.b

where piled foundations are to be employed, unless otherwise agreed by the MMO
in writing, details of proposed monitoring of the noise generated by the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation type
to be constructed collectively under this licence and the licence granted
under Schedule 12 of the Order.

18.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph 18(2)(b) must be provided in writing to the MMO within six weeks
of the installation (unless otherwise agreed) of the first four piled
foundations of each piled foundation type. The assessment of this report by
the MMO will determine whether any further noise monitoring is required. If,
in the opinion of the MMO in consultation with the statutory nature
conservation body, the assessment shows impacts significantly in excess to
those assessed in the environmental statement and there has been a failure of
the mitigations set out in the marine mammal mitigation protocol, all piling
activity must cease until an update to the marine mammal mitigation protocol
and further monitoring requirements have been agreed.

18.4

The undertaker must carry out the surveys specified within the construction
monitoring plan or plans in accordance with that plan or plans, including any
further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO under condition  18(3)
, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body.

###### Post-construction monitoring

19

19.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(f) , for each stage of
construction submit a post-construction monitoring plan or plans for that
stage in accordance with an outline marine monitoring plan for written
approval by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
conservation body including details of proposed post-construction surveys,
including methodologies (including appropriate buffers, where relevant) and
timings, and a proposed format, content and timings for providing reports on
the results. The survey proposals must be in accordance with the principles
set out in the outline marine monitoring plan and must specify each survey’s
objectives and explain how it will assist in either informing a useful and
valid comparison with the preconstruction position and/or will enable the
validation or otherwise of key predictions in the environmental statement.

19.2

Subject to receipt of specific proposals the post-construction survey plan or
plans must include, in outline—

19.2.a

details of a survey to determine any change in the location, extent and
composition of any biogenic or geogenic reef feature identified in the pre-
construction survey in the parts of the offshore Order limits in which
construction works were carried out. The survey design must be informed by the
results of the pre-construction benthic survey;

19.2.b

a bathymetric survey to monitor the effectiveness of archaeological exclusion
zones. The data will be analysed by an accredited archaeologist as defined in
the marine written scheme of archaeological investigation required under
condition  13(2) ;

19.2.c

any ornithological monitoring required by the ornithological monitoring plans
submitted in accordance with condition  13(1)(j) ; and.

19.2.d

vessel traffic monitoring by automatic identification system for a duration of
three consecutive years following the completion of construction of the
authorised scheme, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO, with
provision for a report to be submitted annually to the MMO, Trinity House, and
the MCA.

19.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under the post-construction
monitoring plan or plans in accordance with that plan or plans and provide the
agreed reports in the agreed format, unless otherwise agreed in writing with
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

19.4

Within 12 weeks of completion of any cable repair or replacement works, the
undertaker must undertake a post installation survey along the section of
cable that has undergone repair or replacement to demonstrate the successful
burial of the cable, and submit a report to the MMO in writing on its
findings.

###### Timing of monitoring report

20

Any monitoring report compiled in accordance with the monitoring plans
provided under conditions  17 ,  18  and  19  must be provided to the relevant
body no later than four months following receipt by the undertaker of the
results of monitoring to which it relates, unless otherwise agreed with the
relevant body in writing.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving

21

21.1

Only when driven or part–driven pile foundations are proposed to be used as
part of the foundation installation the undertaker must provide the following
information to the Marine Noise Registry—

21.1.a

prior to the commencement of each stage of construction of the licensed
activities, information on the expected location, start and end dates of
impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look
requirements;

21.1.b

at six month intervals following the commencement of pile driving, information
on the locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements; and

21.1.c

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving, information on the
locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements.

21.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO in writing of the successful submission of
Forward Look or Close Out data pursuant to paragraph  (1)  above within 7 days
of the submission.

21.3

For the purpose of this condition, “Forward Look” and “Close Out” mean the
requirements as set out in the UK Marine Noise Registry Information Document
Version 1 (July 2015) as amended, updated or superseded from time to time.

###### Maintenance reporting

22

22.1

An annual maintenance report must be submitted to the MMO in writing within
one month following the first anniversary of the date of commencement of
operations, and every year thereafter until the permanent cessation of
operation.

22.2

The report must provide a record of the licensed activities as set out in
condition 4 during the preceding year, the timing of activities and
methodologies used.

22.3

Every fifth year, the undertaker must submit to the MMO in writing, within one
month of that date, a consolidated maintenance report, which will—

22.3.a

include a review of licensed activities undertaken during the preceding five
years with reference to the reports submitted in accordance with condition
22(1)  of this licence;

22.3.b

reconfirm the applicability of the methodologies and frequencies of the
licensable activities permitted by this licence for the remaining duration of
this licence.

###### Stages of construction

23

23.1

The licenced activities must not be commenced until a written scheme setting
out the stages of construction of the authorised development seaward of MHWS
has been submitted to and approved by the MMO in writing.

23.2

The stages of construction referred to in sub–paragraph  (1)  will not permit
the authorised development to be constructed in more than one overall phase.

23.3

The scheme must be implemented as approved.

23.4

The written scheme referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)  must be submitted to the
MMO in writing four months prior to the planned commencement of the licenced
activities.

###### Completion of construction

24

24.1

The undertaker must submit a close out report in writing to the MMO and the
relevant statutory nature conservation body within three months of the date of
completion of construction. The close out report must confirm the date of
completion of construction and must include the following details—

24.1.a

the final number of installed wind turbine generators; and

24.1.b

the installed wind turbine generator parameters relevant for ornithological
collision risk modelling.

24.2

Following completion of construction, no further construction activities can
be undertaken under this licence.

25

The undertaker must submit a close out report to the MCA and the UK
Hydrographic Office within three months of the date of completion of
construction. The close out report must confirm the date of completion of
construction and must include the following—

25.a

the final number of installed wind turbine generators;

25.b

a plan of the layout of installed wind turbine generators and offshore
accommodation platform; and

25.c

latitude and longitude coordinates of the centre point of the location of each
wind turbine generator and offshore accommodation platform, provided as
Geographical Information System data referenced to WGS84 datum.

###### Deployment of cable protection

26

Any cable protection authorised under this licence must be deployed within 15
years from the date of the grant of the Order unless otherwise agreed by the
MMO in writing.

###### Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan

27

27.1

No piling activities can take place until a Site Integrity Plan (“ SIP ”),
which accords with the principles set out in the outline Southern North Sea
Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan, has been submitted to, and
approved in writing, by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

27.2

The SIP submitted for approval must contain a description of the conservation
objectives for the Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation (the “SNS
SAC”) as well as any relevant management measures and it must set out the key
statutory nature conservation body advice on activities within the SNS SAC
relating to piling as set out within the JNCC Guidance and how this has been
considered in the context of the authorised scheme.

27.3

The SIP must be submitted to the MMO no later than six months prior to the
commencement of the piling activities.

27.4

In approving the SIP, the MMO must be satisfied that the authorised scheme at
the pre-construction stage, in-combination with other plans and projects, is
in line with the JNCC Guidance.

27.5

The approved SIP may be amended with the prior written approval of the MMO, in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body, where the
MMO remains satisfied that the Project, in-combination with other plans or
projects at the preconstruction stage, is in line with the JNCC guidance.

DEEMED MARINE LICENCE UNDER THE 2009 ACT – TRANSMISSION ASSETS

Article 33

##### LICENSED MARINE ACTIVITIES

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008 ; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009 ; “ 2017 Offshore Regulations ” means the Conservation of Offshore Marine
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ 2017 Onshore Regulations ” means the
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ ancillary works ”
means those works listed in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Order; “ array area ”
means the area covered by Work No. 1 as shown on the offshore works plan; “
array area disposal site ” means the site to be used for disposal of inert
material of natural origin produced during construction drilling and seabed
preparation for foundation works and cable sandwave clearance to be located
within the array area; “ authorised deposits ” means the substances and
articles specified in paragraph  4  of Part 1 of this licence; “ authorised
development ” means the development and associated development described in
Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development) of the Order and any other
development authorised by this Order that is development within the meaning of
section 32 (meaning of “ development ”) of the 2008 Act; “ authorised scheme ”
means Work Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 as described in paragraph  3  of Part 1 of this
licence or any stage of that work; “ box-type gravity base structure ” means a
structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a square
base which rests on the seabed due to its own weight with or without added
ballast or additional skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes,
corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ bridge
link ” means a steel truss structure with provision for overhead clearance for
personnel, lighting fixtures and ancillary cabling, which can be used as a
link for interconnection between any combination of permanent offshore
electrical installations and/or offshore accommodation platform “ buoy ” means
any floating device used for navigational or measurement purposes, including
LIDAR and wave buoys; “ cable corridor ” means that area of Work No. 2 which
lies outside of the array area, along with the area of Work Nos. 3, 4 and 5; “
cable corridor disposal site ” means the site, within the cable corridor, to
be used for disposal of inert material of natural origin produced during
construction drilling and seabed preparation for foundation works and cable
sandwave clearance; “ cable protection ” means physical measures for the
protection of cables including but not limited to concrete mattresses, and/or
rock placement (including material used for cable crossings); “ cable
protection replenishment ” means the restoration to a former level or
condition of cable protection lost by natural seabed processes or human
activity; “ commence ” means the first carrying out of any licensed marine
activities authorised by this marine licence, save for pre-construction
surveys and monitoring approved under this licence and the activities set out
in paragraph  2(e)  and “ commenced ” and “ commencement ” must be construed
accordingly; “ commissioning ” means the process of assuring that all systems
and components of the authorised development are tested to verify that they
function and are operable in accordance with the design objectives,
specifications and operational requirements of the undertaker; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 2 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation – Safeguarding, St George’s House, DIO Head
Office, DMS Whittington, Lichfield, Staffordshire, WS14 9PY and any successor
body to its functions; “ Defra ” means the Department for Environment, Food
and Rural; Affairs; “ dropped object procedure form ” means the MMO
notification proforma with reference MLDIR1 for reporting the loss or dumping
of synthetic materials and other refuse at sea or any other format advised in
writing by the MMO; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised to carry
out enforcement duties under Chapter 3 of Part 4 (marine licensing) of the
2009 Act; “ environmental statement ” means the document certified as the
environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
European site ” has the meaning given in regulation 27 of the 2017 Offshore
Regulations or regulation 8 of the 2017 Onshore Regulations as appropriate; “
gravity base structure ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or
steel and concrete with a base which tapers as it rises which rests on the
seabed due to its own weight with or without added ballast or additional
skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection
systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ habitats of principal
importance ” means a habitat designated as being of principal importance in
accordance with section 41 (biodiversity lists and action (England)) of the
Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006; “ HAT ” means highest
astronomical tide; “ HVAC booster station lighting plan ” means the plan
certified as the HVAC booster station lighting plan by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of the Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents, etc.); “ HVDC ” means high voltage direct current; “ IHO S44ed5
Order 1a ” means order 1a from the fifth edition of the International
Hydrographic Organisation’s Standards for Hydrographics Surveys; “
interconnector cables ” means a network of cables between the offshore
substations; “ jacket foundation ” means a lattice type structure constructed
of steel, which may include additional equipment such as, J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platforms; “ JNCC ” means the Joint Nature
Conservation Committee; “ JNCC Guidance ” means the statutory nature
conservation body ‘Guidance for assessing the significance of noise
disturbance against Conservation Objectives of harbour porpoise SACs’ Joint
Nature Conservation Committee Report No.654, May 2020 published in June 2020
as amended, updated or superseded from time to time; “ Kingfisher Bulletin ”
means the bulletin published by the Humber Seafood Institute or such other
alternative publication approved in writing by the MMO for the purposes of
this licence; “ Kingfisher Information Service ” means the information service
from non-departmental government body Seafish; “ large offshore HVDC converter
substation ” means the larger version of the offshore converter substations
assessed in the environment statement; “ large offshore transformer substation
” means the larger version of the offshore transformer substations assessed in
the environment statement; “ LAT ” means lowest astronomical tide; “ layout
principles ” means the document certified as the layout principles by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article  38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ licensed activities ” means
the activities specified in Part 1 of this licence; “ maintain ” includes
inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter and further includes remove,
reconstruct and replace (including replenishment of cable protection) but does
not include the removal, reconstruction or replacement of foundations
associated with the authorised scheme, to the extent assessed in the
environmental statement; and “maintenance” must be construed accordingly;
“Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the Marine Management
Organisation, Lancaster House, Hampshire Court, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE4 7YH
who is the body created under the 2009 Act and who is responsible for the
monitoring and enforcement of this licence; “ marine noise registry ” means
the database developed and maintained by JNCC on behalf of Defra to record the
spatial and temporal distribution of impulsive noise generating activities in
UK seas; “ MCA ” means the Maritime and Coastguard Agency, an executive agency
for the Department for Transport; “mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ” means
the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a period of time;
“mean low water springs” or “ MLWS ” means the lowest level which spring tides
reach on average over a period of time; “ monopile foundation ” means a steel
pile, typically cylindrical, driven and/or drilled into the seabed and
associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and
access platforms and equipment; “ mono suction bucket foundation ” means a
steel cylindrical structure which partially or fully penetrates the seabed and
remains in place using its own weight and hydrostatic pressure differential,
and may include additional equipment such as J-tubes; “ offshore accommodation
platform ” means a structure above LAT and attached to the seabed by means of
a foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter platform (including bird
deterrents), containing housing accommodation, storage, workshop, auxiliary
equipment, and facilities for operating, maintaining and controlling the wind
turbine generators and offshore electrical installations; “ offshore
electrical installations ” means the small offshore transformer substations,
the large offshore transformer substations, the offshore HVAC booster
stations, the small offshore HVDC converter substations and the large offshore
HVDC converter substations forming part of the authorised development; “
offshore export cable ” means a network of cables for as described in Work No.
2(e) and Work No. 3(d); “ offshore HVAC booster station ” means a structure
above LAT and attached to the seabed by means of a foundation, with one or
more decks and a helicopter platform (including bird deterrents), containing—
electrical equipment required to provide reactive power compensation; and
housing accommodation, storage, workshop, auxiliary equipment, and facilities
for operating, maintaining and controlling the substation; “ the offshore
Order limits and grid coordinates plan ” means the plan certified as the
offshore Order limits and grid coordinates plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of the Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents, etc.); “ Offshore Renewables Protocol for Reporting Archaeological
Discoveries ” means the Offshore Renewables Protocol for Reporting
Archaeological Discoveries, the Crown Estate (2014),  Protocol for
Archaeological Discoveries: Offshore Renewables Projects,  Salisbury, Wessex
Archaeology as amended, updated or superseded from time to time; “ offshore
transformer substation ” means a structure above LAT and attached to the
seabed by means of a foundation, with one or more decks and a helicopter
platform (including bird deterrents), containing— electrical equipment
required to switch, transform, convert electricity generated at the wind
turbine generators to a higher voltage and provide reactive power
compensation; and housing accommodation, storage, workshop auxiliary
equipment, radar and facilities for operating, maintaining and controlling the
substation or wind turbine generators; “ offshore works plan ” means the plan
certified as the offshore works plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents, etc.); “ operation ” means the undertaking of licensed activities
which are not part of the construction, commissioning or decommissioning of
the authorised development; “ Order ” means the Hornsea Four Offshore Wind
Farm Order 2023; “ the Order limits ” means the limits shown on the offshore
Order limits and grid coordinates plans and the onshore Order limits plan
within which the authorised scheme may be carried out, whose grid coordinates
seaward of MHWS are set out in paragraph  5  of Part 1 of this Schedule; “
outline cable specification and installation plan ” means the document
certified as the outline cable specification and installation plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline marine mammal
mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the outline marine
mammal mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
outline marine monitoring plan ” means the document certified as the outline
marine monitoring plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  38  (certification of plans and documents, etc.); “
outline marine written scheme of investigation ” means the document certified
as the outline marine written scheme of investigation by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article  38  (certification of
plans and documents, etc.); “ outline offshore operations and maintenance plan
” means the document certified as the outline operations and maintenance plan
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.); “ outline southern north sea
special area of conservation site integrity plan ” means the document
certified as the outline southern north sea special area of conservation site
integrity plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ pin
piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the seabed to
secure jacket foundations; “ pontoon gravity base type 1 structure ” means a
structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a base
made up of up to two rectangular pontoons which rests on the seabed due to its
own weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and associated
equipment including J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access
platform(s) and equipment; “ pontoon gravity base type 2 structure ” means a
structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete with a base
made up of a pontoon arranged in a rectangle around an open centre which rests
on the seabed due to its own weight with or without added ballast or
additional skirts and associated equipment including J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “pro–rata annex”
means the document certified as the pro–rata annex by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order under article  38  (certification of plans and
documents, etc.); “ small offshore HVDC converter substation ” means the
smaller version of the offshore transformer substations assessed in the
environment statement; “ small offshore transformer substation ” means the
smaller version of the offshore transformer substations assessed in the
environment statement; “ statutory historic body ” means Historic England, the
relevant local authority or its successor in function; “ statutory nature
conservation body ” means the appropriate nature conservation body as defined
in Regulation 5 of the Onshore Regulations 2017 or its equivalent in the
Offshore Regulations; “ suction bucket ” means a steel cylindrical structure
attached to the legs of a jacket foundation which partially or fully
penetrates the seabed and remains in place using its own weight and
hydrostatic pressure differential; “ transition piece ” means the metal
structure attached to the top of the foundation where the base of the wind
turbine generator is connected and may include additional equipment such as
J-tubes, corrosion protection systems, boat access systems, access platforms,
craneage, radar, electrical transmission equipment and associated equipment; “
Trinity House ” means the Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; “
UK Hydrographic Office ” means the UK Hydrographic Office of Admiralty Way,
Taunton, Somerset, TA1 2DN; “ undertaker ” means Orsted Hornsea Project Four
Limited (company number 08584182); “ vessel ” means every description of
vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft, a
personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil
vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing
constructed or adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is
at the time in, on or over water; “ wind turbine generator ” means a structure
comprising a tower, rotor with three blades connected at the hub, nacelle and
ancillary electrical and other equipment which may include J-tube(s),
transition piece, access and rest platforms, access ladders, boat access
systems, corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment,
helicopter landing facilities and other associated equipment, fixed to a
foundation or transition piece; and “ working day ” means a day which is not a
weekend, bank or public holiday in England; and “ UK Standard Marking Schedule
for Offshore Installations ” means the Standard Marking Schedule for Offshore
Installations published by the Department of Energy & Climate Change with
reference DECC 04/11.

1.2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

1.3

Unless otherwise indicated—

1.3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time; and

1.3.b

all co-ordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

1.4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary point of contact with the organisations listed below and the address
for returns and correspondence are—

1.4.a

Civil Aviation Authority

Aviation House

Beehive Ringroad

Crawley

West Sussex

RH6 0YR

1.4.b

Historic England

37 Tanner Road

York

YO1 6WP

1.4.c

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing Team

Lancaster House Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

1.4.d

Marine Management Organisation (Local Office)

Room 13, Ground Floor

Crosskill House

Mill Lane

Beverley

HU17 9JB

Tel: 0208 026 0519;

1.4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2433;

1.4.f

Ministry of Defence (as represented by Defence Infrastructure Organisation –
Safeguarding)

St George’s House

DIO Head Office

DMS Whittington

Lichfield

Staffordshire

WS14 9PY;

1.4.g

Natural England

4th Floor

Foss House

1-2 Peasholme Green

York

YO1 7PX

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

1.4.h

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

1.4.i

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900.

1.5

Unless otherwise advised in writing by the MMO, the address for electronic
communication with the MMO for the purposes of this licence is
marine.consents@marinemanagement.org.uk, or where contact to the Local Office
of the MMO is required,   beverley@marinemanagement.org.uk .

1.6

Unless otherwise advised in writing by the MMO, the Marine Case Management
System (“ MCMS ”) must be used for all licence returns or applications to vary
this licence. The MCMS address is:
https://marinelicensing.marinemanagement.org.uk/  .

1.7

Any reference in this licence or the documents certified by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order under article 38 (certification of plans
and documents, etc.) to a dimension measured from LAT may be converted to a
measurement from HAT by subtracting 4.71m from the measurement from LAT.

###### Details of licensed marine activities

2

Subject to the licence conditions at Part 2, this licence authorises the
undertaker (and any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out
the following licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable
marine activities) of the 2009 Act—

2.a

the deposit at sea within the Order limits seaward of MHWS of the substances
and articles specified in paragraph  4  below and within—

2.a.i

the array area disposal site, when combined with the disposal authorised by
the deemed marine licence granted under Schedule 11 of the Order, of up to
7,211,601 cubic metres (being a maximum, not an approximate upper figure) of
inert material of natural origin produced during construction drilling or
seabed preparation for foundation works and cable installation preparation and
excavation of horizontal directional drilling pits works within the parts of
Work No. 2 that lie within the array area; and

2.a.ii

the cable corridor disposal site of up to 4,105,735 cubic metres (being a
maximum, not an approximate upper figure) of inert material of natural origin
produced during construction drilling or seabed preparation for foundation
works and cable installation preparation and excavation of horizontal
directional drilling pits works within Work Nos. 2 (which lie within the cable
corridor), 3, 4 and 5;

2.b

the construction of works in or over the sea or on or under the sea bed;

2.c

dredging for the purposes of seabed preparation for foundation works and/or
electrical circuit works;

2.d

boulder clearance works by displacement ploughing or subsea grab technique or
any other equivalent method;

2.e

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation;

2.f

removal of static fishing equipment; and

2.g

site preparation works.

3

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of—

######### Work No. 2—

3.a

up to six small offshore transformer substations each fixed to the seabed by
one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, gravity base
structures or jacket foundations, and which may be connected to each other or
one of the offshore accommodation platforms within Work No. 1(b) by a bridge
link;

3.b

up to three large offshore transformer substations each fixed to the seabed by
one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, box–type gravity
base structures, or jacket foundations, pontoon gravity base type 1
structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures, and which may be
connected to each other or one of the offshore accommodation platforms within
Work No. 1(b) by a bridge link;

3.c

in the event that the mode of transmission is HVDC, either up to three either
large HVDC converter substations or up to six small HVDC converter substations
fixed to the seabed within the area shown on the offshore works plan by one of
monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, jacket foundations,
box–type gravity base structures, gravity base structures, pontoon gravity
base type 1 structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures;

3.d

a network of interconnector cables;

3.e

up to six cable circuits between Work No. 2 and Work No. 3, and between Work
No. 3 and Work No. 5 consisting of offshore export cables along routes within
the Order limits seaward of MLWS including one or more cable crossings; and

3.f

up to eight temporary horizontal directional drilling exit pits and associated
cofferdams.

######### Work No. 3—

3.a

in the event that the mode of transmission is HVAC, up to three offshore HVAC
booster stations fixed to the seabed within the area shown on the offshore
works plan by one of monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations,
jacket foundations, gravity base structures, pontoon gravity base type 1
structures or pontoon gravity base type 2 structures; and

3.b

in the event that the mode of transmission is HVAC, up to six cable circuits
between Work No. 2 and Work No. 3, and between Work No. 3 and Work No. 5
consisting of offshore export cables along routes within the Order limits
seaward of MHWS including one or more cable crossings.

Work No. 4 — a temporary work area associated with Work No. 2 and Work No. 3
for vessels to carry out anchoring and positioning alongside Work No. 2 or
Work No. 3.

Work No. 5—  works consisting of —

3.a

up to six cable circuits and associated electrical circuit ducts between Work
No. 3 to Work No. 6; and

3.b

up to eight horizontal directional drilling exit pits, unless Work No. 2(f) is
constructed.

Work No. 9 — temporary works as follows—

3.a

temporary vehicular access tracks as shown on the offshore works plans;

3.b

temporary construction ramp as shown on the offshore works plans.

In connection with such Works Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 and to the extent that they
do not otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
within the meaning of section 115(2) (development for which consent may be
granted) of the 2008 Act comprising such other works as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the relevant part of the
authorised scheme and which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the
environmental statement and the provisions of this license, including—

3.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore electrical
installations;

3.b

cable protection measures such as the placement of rock and/or concrete
mattresses;

3.c

the removal of material from the seabed within the Order limits the disposal
within—

3.c.i

the array area disposal site, in combination with the disposal authorised by
the deemed marine licence granted under Schedule 11 of the Order, of up to
7,211,601 cubic metres of inert material of natural origin produced during
construction drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works and cable
installation preparation works (such as sandwave clearance and boulder
clearance) and excavation of horizontal directional drilling pits works within
the parts of Work No. 2 that lie within the array area; and

3.c.ii

the cable corridor disposal site up to 4,105,735 cubic metres of inert
material of natural origin within Order limits produced during construction
drilling and seabed preparation for foundation works and cable sandwave
clearance works required or the construction of Work Nos. 2 (which lie within
the cable corridor), 3, 4 and 5; and

3.d

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/or maintenance of the authorised development.

4

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

4.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

4.b

stone and rock;

4.c

concrete;

4.d

sand and gravel;

4.e

plastic and synthetic;

4.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling and seabed preparation for foundation works cable installation
preparation works and excavation of horizontal directional drilling pits; and

4.g

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

5

The grid coordinates for that part of the authorised development comprising
Work Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 9a and 9b are specified below and more particularly on
the offshore Order limits and grid coordinates plan—

Point ID Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point ID Latitude (DMS) Longitude
(DMS) 1 54° 2′ 7.166″ N 0° 12′ 58.381″ W 68 53° 59′ 17.868″ N 1° 17′ 11.556″ E
2 54° 2′ 7.022″ N 0° 12′ 48.680″ W 69 53° 58′ 55.615″ N 1° 16′ 14.402″ E 3 54°
2′ 28.905″ N 0° 12′ 23.610″ W 70 53° 58′ 54.680″ N 1° 16′ 10.907″ E 4 54° 3′
4.330″ N 0° 9′ 20.564″ W 71 53° 58′ 54.305″ N 1° 16′ 7.041″ E 5 54° 3′ 2.961″
N 0° 8′ 57.136″ W 72 53° 58′ 48.150″ N 1° 9′ 3.489″ E 6 54° 3′ 46.646″ N 0° 6’
22.355″W 73 53° 58′ 49.099″ N 1° 8′ 56.253 E 7 54° 3′ 55.011″ N 0° 6′ 0.668″ W
74 53° 59′ 33.340″ N 1° 5′ 22.618″ E 8 54° 4′ 5.592″ N 0° 5′ 7.239″ W 75 53°
59′ 16.728″ N 1° 0′ 29.597″ E 9 54° 4′ 7.120″ N 0° 4′ 56.079″ W 76 53° 59′
10.802″ N 0° 59′ 53.488″ E 10 54° 4′ 7.947″ N 0° 4′ 12.149″ W 77 53° 59′
0.241″ N 0° 59′ 7.651″ E 11 54° 4′ 7.646″ N 0° 4′ 2.450″ W 78 53° 58′ 58.446″
N 0° 58′ 57.385″ E 12 54° 3′ 39.131″ N 0° 1′ 17.603″ E 79 53° 58′ 53.673″ N 0°
57′ 53.130″ E 13 54° 3′ 36.602″ N 0° 1′ 19.983″ E 80 53° 58′ 53.613″ N 0° 57′
45.865″ E 14 54° 3′ 36.653″ N 0° 1′ 27.388″ E 81 53° 58′ 54.420″ N 0° 57′
26.213″ E 15 54° 3′ 37.742″ N 0° 1′ 33.117″ E 82 53° 58′ 58.248″ N 0° 56′
45.174″ E 16 54° 3′ 31.432″ N 0° 2′ 43.501″ E 83 53° 59′ 56.956″ N 0° 50′
1.171″ E 17 54° 3′ 21.791″ N 0° 4′ 54.431″ E 84 54° 0′ 12.504″ N 0° 48′ 1.381″
E 18 54° 3′ 20.107″ N 0° 5′ 29.470″ E 85 54° 0′ 12.515″ N 0° 47′ 27.367″ E 19
54° 3′ 20.504″ N 0° 5′ 36.188″ E 86 54° 0′ 13.296″ N 0° 46′ 40.673″ E 20 54°
3′ 29.852″ N 0° 6′ 6.995″ E 87 54° 0′ 12.634″ N 0° 46′ 30.459″ E 21 54° 4′
17.513″ N 0° 8′ 11.780″ E 88 54° 0′ 11.415″ N 0° 46′ 24.233″ E 22 54° 4′
19.804″ N 0° 8′ 20.650″ E 89 53° 59′ 39.945″ N 0° 44′ 55.026″ E 23 54° 4′
29.084″ N 0° 9′ 5.618″ E 90 53° 59′ 33.773″ N 0° 44′ 35.130″ E 24 54° 4′
30.902″ N 0° 9′ 18.035″ E 91 53° 59′ 28.402″ N 0° 44′ 15.020″ E 25 54° 4′
31.360″ N 0° 9′ 29.006″ E 92 53° 59′ 26.858″ N 0° 44′ 5.508″ E 26 54° 4′
30.770″ N 0° 11′ 14.823″ E 93 53° 59′ 23.738″ N 0° 43′ 35.842″ E 27 54° 4′
41.436″ N 0° 13′ 46.313″ E 94 53° 59′ 23.191″ N 0° 42′ 42.267″ E 28 54° 4′
51.664″ N 0° 18′ 10.115″ E 95 53° 59′ 23.584″ N 0° 42′ 32.090″ E 29 54° 4′
49.674″ N 0° 22′ 20.794″ E 96 53° 59′ 29.653″ N 0° 41′ 39.599″ E 30 54° 4′
34.602″ N 0° 25′ 8.241″ E 97 53° 59′ 31.433″ N 0° 41′ 30.497″ E 31 54° 3′
47.343″ N 0° 28′ 41.594″ E 98 53° 59′ 34.340″ N 0° 41′ 20.783″ E 32 54° 3′
29.522″ N 0° 29′ 45.309″ E 99 54° 1′ 11.539″ N 0° 37′ 38.060″ E 33 54° 3′
12.983″ N 0° 30′ 41.496″ E 100 54° 1′ 53.954″ N 0° 30′ 4.210″ E 34 54° 3′
11.866″ N 0° 30′ 46.755″ E 101 54° 1′ 55.082″ N 0° 29′ 58.960″ E 35 54° 2′
29.831″ N 0° 38′ 16.384″ E 102 54° 2′ 16.836″ N 0° 28′ 45.068″ E 36 54° 2′
28.252″ N 0° 38′ 27.328″ E 103 54° 2′ 34.272″ N 0° 27′ 42.729″ E 37 54° 2′
25.710″ N 0° 38′ 37.464″ E 104 54° 3′ 14.191″ N 0° 24′ 52.548″ E 38 54° 2′
22.467″ N 0° 38′ 46.275″ E 105 54° 3′ 28.906″ N 0° 22′ 9.330″ E 39 54° 0′
46.742″ N 0° 42′ 25.062″ E 106 54° 3′ 30.827″ N 0° 18′ 25.085″ E 40 54° 0′
44.114″ N 0° 42′ 47.823″ E 107 54° 3′ 25.965″ N 0° 15′ 11.395″ E 41 54° 0′
44.168″ N 0° 42′ 53.983″ E 108 54° 3′ 10.152″ N 0° 11′ 26.334″ E 42 54° 0′
37.964″ N 0° 43′ 8.166″ E 109 54° 3′ 9.658″ N 0° 11′ 1.640″ E 43 54° 0′
33.962″ N 0° 43′ 31.109″ E 110 54° 3′ 10.393″ N 0° 9′ 39.559″ E 44 54° 0′
51.704″ N 0° 44′ 6.496″ E 111 54° 3′ 7.676″ N 0° 9′ 26.386″ E 45 54° 0′
57.175″ N 0° 44′ 19.901″ E 112 54° 3′ 13.846″ N 0° 8′ 47.985″ E 46 54° 1′
20.169″ N 0° 45′ 45.285″ E 113 54° 1′ 59.146″ N 0° 5′ 34.054″ E 47 54° 1′
22.890″ N 0° 46′ 0.288″ E 114 54° 1′ 59.193″ N 0° 5′ 24.927″ E 48 54° 1′
33.372″ N 0° 47′ 34.265″ E 115 54° 2′ 1.399″ N 0° 4′ 39.525″ E 49 54° 1′
33.357″ N 0° 48′ 6.711″ E 116 54° 2′ 14.627″ N 0° 1′ 34.678″ E 50 54° 1′
32.702″ N 0° 48′ 19.691″ E 117 54° 2′ 13.616″ N 0° 1′ 29.370″ E 51 54° 1′
26.938″ N 0° 49′ 8.341″ E 118 54° 2′ 9.931″ N 0° 1′ 16.745″ W 52 54° 1′
15.588″ N 0° 50′ 33.236″ E 119 54° 1′ 43.569″ N 0° 0′ 7.896″ W 53 54° 0′
17.357″ N 0° 57′ 13.969″ E 120 54° 1′ 31.663″ N 0° 0′ 25.766″ W 54 54° 0′
15.266″ N 0° 57′ 36.824″ E 121 54° 1′ 7.679″ N 0° 1′ 51.463″ W 55 54° 0′
14.766″ N 0° 57′ 48.644″ E 122 54° 1′ 0.011″ N 0° 2′ 21.082″ W 56 54° 0′
17.493″ N 0° 58′ 26.081″ E 123 54° 1′ 0.055″ N 0° 4′ 18.699″ W 57 54° 0′
27.621″ N 0° 59′ 10.323″ E 124 54° 1′ 25.632″ N 0° 12′ 25.517″ W 58 54° 0′
36.596″ N 1° 0′ 6.568″ E 125 54° 1′ 41.883″ N 0° 12′ 50.086″ W 59 54° 0′
53.351″ N 1° 4′ 59.324″ E 126 54° 1′ 39.112″ N 0° 12′ 50.078″ W 60 54° 2′
51.236″ N 1° 8′ 18.052″ E 127 54° 1′ 39.246″ N 0° 12′ 59.069″ W 61 54° 7′
24.985″ N 0° 59′ 54.702″ E 128 54° 1′ 39.257″ N 0° 12′ 59.850″ W 62 54° 9′
13.497″ N 1° 0′ 43.850″ E 129 54° 1′ 39.742″ N 0° 12′ 59.821″ W 63 54° 10′
49.480″ N 0° 58′ 21.782″ E 130 54° 1′ 39.731″ N 0° 12′ 59.103″ W 64 54° 12′
37.143″ N 0° 58′ 31.095″ E 131 54° 1′ 43.574″ N 0° 12′ 59.118″ W 65 54° 12′
17.413″ N 1° 12′ 18.263″ E 132 54° 1′ 43.811″ N 0° 12′ 59.860″ W 66 54° 4′
13.012″ N 1° 30′ 5.270″ E 133 54° 2′ 7.201″ N 0° 13′ 0.387″ W 67 53° 59′
15.598″ N 1° 17′ 20.651″ E

###### General provisions

6

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 (approval of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004
Act, including any modification to the programme under section 108 (reviews
and revisions of decommissioning programmes), and the completion of such
programme has been confirmed by the Secretary of State in writing.

7

The provisions of section 72 (variation, suspension, revocation and transfer)
of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that the provisions of section
72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the licence only apply to a transfer
not falling within article  5  (benefit of the Order).

8

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this Schedule, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

9

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details, plan or scheme must
be in accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the
environmental statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to
immaterial changes where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
MMO that it is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially
greater environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental
statement.

##### CONDITIONS

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

The total number of offshore electrical installations must not exceed nine,
and consisting of a combination of no more than—

1.1.a

six small offshore transformer substations;

1.1.b

three large offshore transformer substations;

1.1.c

three offshore HVAC booster stations;

1.1.d

six small offshore HVDC converter substations; and

1.1.e

three large offshore HVDC converter substations.

1.2

The dimensions of any small offshore transformer substations (including
auxiliary structures, but excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of
the authorised scheme must not exceed—

1.2.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

1.2.b

90 metres in length; and

1.2.c

90 metres in width.

1.3

The dimensions of any large offshore transformer substations (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised scheme
must not exceed—

1.3.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

1.3.b

180 metres in length; and

1.3.c

90 metres in width.

1.4

The dimensions of any offshore HVAC booster station (including auxiliary
structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but excluding
masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised scheme must not
exceed—

1.4.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

1.4.b

90 metres in length; and

1.4.c

90 metres in width.

1.5

The dimensions of any small offshore HVDC converter substations (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised scheme
must not exceed—

1.5.a

90 metres in height when measured from LAT;

1.5.b

100 metres in length; and

1.5.c

100 metres in width.

1.6

The dimensions of any large offshore HVDC converter substations (including
auxiliary structures, such as a helipad, crane, lightning protection, but
excluding masts, radar and antennae) forming part of the authorised scheme
must not exceed—

1.6.a

100 metres in height when measured from LAT;

1.6.b

180 metres in length; and

1.6.c

90 metres in width.

1.7

Offshore electrical installation foundation structures forming part of the
authorised scheme must be one of the following foundation options—

1.7.a

for small offshore transformer substations and offshore HVAC booster stations
either monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, gravity base
structures, jacket foundations or box–type gravity base structures; and

1.7.b

for large offshore transformer substations and offshore HVDC converter
stations either monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations, jacket
foundations, box–type gravity base structures, gravity base structures,
pontoon gravity base type 1 structures, or pontoon gravity base type 2
structures.

1.8

No offshore electrical installation—

1.8.a

jacket foundation employing pin piles forming part of the authorised scheme
may—

1.8.a.i

have a pin pile diameter of greater than four metres; and

1.8.a.ii

employ more than 16 pin piles per jacket foundation; and

1.8.b

monopile foundation forming part of the authorised scheme may have a diameter
greater than 15 metres.

1.9

The total seabed footprint area for offshore electrical installation
foundations must not exceed—

1.9.a

101,250 square metres excluding scour protection; and

1.9.b

371,250 square metres including scour protection.

1.10

The area of scour protection material for offshore electrical installation
foundations must not exceed 270,000 square metres.

1.11

The total number of cable crossings when combined with the deemed marine
licence granted under Schedule 11 of the Order must not exceed 86, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the MMO.

1.12

The total number of gravity base structures must not exceed ten for offshore
electrical installations, or nine where the offshore accommodation platform
authorised by the deemed marine licence granted under Schedule 11 of the Order
utilises a gravity base structure.

1.13

The offshore electrical installations comprised in the authorised scheme must
be constructed in accordance with the parameters set out in the pro–rata
annex.

1.14

A bridge link forming part of the authorised scheme must be installed at a
minimum height of 20 metres when measured from LAT.

2

The total length of the cables and the volume of their cable protection
(including cable crossings) must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection Work Nos. 2 and 3 and 5 744 kilometres 1,068,500
cubic metres

3

3.1

The total length of the cables in Work No. 2(d) and (e) and the volume of
their cable protection when combined with the cable authorised under Work No.
1(c) of the deemed marine licence granted under Schedule 11 of the Order must
not exceed the following—

Length Cable protection 1,344 kilometres 1,449,000 cubic metres

3.2

No more than 5% of the length of cables within Work No. 2(e) and Work No. 3(b)
falling within the Smithic Bank, being the area bounded by the following
coordinates, shall be subject to cable protection, unless otherwise agreed in
writing with the MMO—

Coordinate ID Easting (ETRS89 UTM31N) Northing (ETRS89 UTM31N) Longitude
(WGS84) Latitude (WGS84) 1 298274.67 5990918.71 -0.07990 54.02704 2 298127.19
5990333.27 -0.08175 54.02172 3 294845.62 5990773.47 -0.13207 54.02438 4
294845.60 5990773.48 -0.13207 54.02438 5 293307.25 5990979.83 -0.15565
54.02562 6 293307.23 5990979.84 -0.15565 54.02562 7 293234.22 5990989.63
-0.15677 54.02568 8 293248.01 5991617.59 -0.15699 54.03132 9 293357.03
5992381.64 -0.15585 54.03822 10 293485.99 5993033.45 -0.15432 54.04412 11
293595.22 5993351.56 -0.15288 54.04702 12 295812.89 5993972.30 -0.11947
54.05347 13 295814.17 5993972.66 -0.11945 54.05348 14 295815.45 5993973.03
-0.11943 54.05348 15 296409.98 5994139.44 -0.11048 54.05521 16 296416.88
5994141.37 -0.11037 54.05523 17 297196.58 5994359.61 -0.09863 54.05749 18
297201.62 5994361.02 -0.09855 54.05751 19 297686.58 5994496.76 -0.09124
54.05892 20 297703.95 5994501.62 -0.09098 54.05897 21 297879.77 5994550.84
-0.08833 54.05948 22 297897.33 5994556.10 -0.08807 54.05953 23 297914.68
5994562.01 -0.08781 54.05959 24 297931.81 5994568.54 -0.08755 54.05966 25
297948.69 5994575.70 -0.08730 54.05973 26 298025.95 5994610.17 -0.08614
54.06007 27 298102.19 5994644.18 -0.08500 54.06040 28 298382.32 5994769.14
-0.08081 54.06163 29 298391.64 5993962.56 -0.08013 54.05440 30 298294.20
5992800.25 -0.08085 54.04393 31 298298.27 5991819.11 -0.08013 54.03513 32
298274.67 5990918.71 -0.07990 54.02704

3.3

No cable protection may be employed within 350 metres seaward of MLWS tidal
datum, measured as a straight line.

3.4

The cables and cable circuits comprised in the authorised development must not
exceed the parameters set out in the pro–rata annex.

###### Maintenance of the authorised development

4

4.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this licence or an agreement made under this licence provides
otherwise.

4.2

Maintenance works include but are not limited to—

4.2.a

offshore electrical installation component replacement;

4.2.b

offshore electrical installation painting and applying other coatings;

4.2.c

bird waste and marine growth removal;

4.2.d

cable remedial burial;

4.2.e

cable repairs and replacement;

4.2.f

cable protection replenishment for a maximum of ten years post construction;

4.2.g

access ladder and boat landing replacement;

4.2.h

replacement of offshore electrical installation anodes; and

4.2.i

J-tube repair/replacement.

4.3

In undertaking activities under condition  4(2)(f) , the undertaker must not
reduce water depth by more than 5% unless agreed with the MMO in writing.

4.4

An operation and maintenance plan substantially in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan shall be submitted to the MMO for
approval in consultation with the relevant SNCB at least six months prior to
the commencement of the operation of the licensed activities. All operation
and maintenance activities shall be carried out in accordance with the
approved plan.

###### Vessels under the undertaker’s control

5

5.1

The undertaker must issue to operators of vessels under its control operating
within the Order limits a code of conduct to prevent collision risk or injury
to marine mammals.

5.2

The undertaker must ensure appropriate co-ordination of vessels within its
control operating within the Order limits so as to reduce collision risk to
other vessels including advisory safe passing distances for vessels.

###### Extension of time periods

6

Any time period given in this licence given to either the undertaker or the
MMO may be extended with the agreement of the other party in writing such
agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Notifications and inspections

7

7.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

7.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

7.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
16 ; and

7.1.a.ii

the masters and offshore operations managers responsible for the vessels
notified to the MMO in accordance with condition  16 .

7.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in sub–paragraph (a) above must provide a completed confirmation form to the
MMO confirming receipt of this licence.

7.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition  16  are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

7.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

7.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

7.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

7.3.c

on board each vessel and at the office of any offshore operations manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

7.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph  (3)(b)  above.

7.5

The undertaker must ensure that a copy of this licence and any subsequent
revisions or amendments has been read and understood by the masters of any
vessel being used to carry on any licensed activity set out in condition
16(3), and that a copy of this licence is held on board any such vessel.

7.6

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

7.7

The undertaker must inform the MMO Local Office in writing at least five days
prior to the commencement of the licensed activities or any stage of them and
within five days of the completion of the licensed activity.

7.8

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of details
regarding the vessel routes, timings and locations relating to the
construction of the authorised scheme or relevant stage—

7.8.a

at least fourteen days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness data; and

7.8.b

as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event no later than 24 hours
after completion of construction of all offshore activities,

confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO in writing within
five days.

7.9

The undertaker must ensure that a local notification to mariners is issued at
least 14 days prior to the commencement of the authorised scheme or any
relevant stage advising of the start date of Work No. 1 and the expected
vessel routes from the construction ports to the relevant location. Copies of
all notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA and UK Hydrographic Office within
five days of issue.

7.10

The undertaker must ensure that local notifications to mariners are updated
and reissued at weekly intervals during construction activities and at least
five days before any planned operations and maintenance works and the notices
must be supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts agreed with the MCA in
accordance with the construction and monitoring programme approved under
deemed marine licence condition 13(1)(b) and monitoring plan approved under
condition 13(1)(f). Copies of all local notifications must be provided to the
MMO and UK Hydrographic Office within five days of issue, save for in the case
of a notice relating to operations and maintenance, which must be provided
within 24 hours of issue.

7.11

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office both of the commencement
(within fourteen days), progress and completion of construction (within
fourteen days) of the licensed activities in order that all necessary
amendments to nautical and aeronautical charts are made and the undertaker
must send a copy of such notifications to the MMO within five days of the
notification.

7.12

In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of, the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS or any part thereof, excluding the exposure of cables, the
undertaker must as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours
following the undertaker becoming aware of any such damage, destruction or
decay, notify the MMO, the MCA, Trinity House, the Kingfisher Information
Service and the UK Hydrographic Office.

7.13

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must
within three days of identification of a potential cable exposure, notify
mariners and inform the Kingfisher Information Service of the location and
extent of exposure. Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO, the
MCA, Trinity House and the UK Hydrographic Office within five days.

7.14

The undertaker must notify the MMO in writing a minimum of five days in
advance of the commencement of each discrete incident of cable repair,
replacement, or protection replenishment activity. Such a notification must
include proposed timings and a description of proposed methodologies.

7.15

The undertaker must ensure that the MMO, the MMO Local Office, local mariners,
local fishermen’s organisations and the Source Data Receipt Team at the UK
Hydrographic Office, Taunton, Somerset, TA1 2DN (sdr@ukho.gov.uk) are notified
within five days of completion of each instance of cable repair, replacement
or protection replenishment activity.

###### Aids to navigation

8

8.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning of the authorised scheme seaward
of MHWS exhibit such lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to
navigation, and take such other steps for the prevention of danger to
navigation as Trinity House may from time to time direct.

8.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS keep Trinity House and the MMO informed in writing of progress
of the authorised scheme seaward of MHWS including the following—

8.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

8.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

8.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

8.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation in accordance with the frequencies set out in the aids to
navigation management plan agreed pursuant to condition  13(1)(i)  using the
reporting system provided by Trinity House.

8.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning of the authorised scheme seaward
of MHWS notify Trinity House and the MMO in writing of any failure of the aids
to navigation and the timescales and plans for remedying such failures, as
soon as possible and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming
aware of any such failure.

8.5

In the event that the provisions of condition  7(12)  are invoked, the
undertaker must lay down such buoys, exhibit such lights and take such other
steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by Trinity House.

8.6

Any jack up barges or vessels utilised during the licensed activities, when
jacked up, must exhibit signals in accordance with the UK Standard Marking
Schedule for Offshore Installations.

###### Colouring of structures

9

The undertaker must colour all structures yellow (colour code RAL 1023) from
at least highest astronomical tide to a height directed by Trinity House, or
must colour the structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

###### Aviation safety

10

10.1

The undertaker must exhibit such lights, with such shape, colour and character
as are required in writing by Air Navigation Order 2016  and determined
necessary for aviation safety in consultation with the Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding and as directed by the Civil Aviation Authority.
Lighting installed specifically to meet Ministry of Defence aviation safety
requirements must remain operational for the life of the authorised
development unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Ministry of Defence.

10.2

The undertaker must notify the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Safeguarding, the Civil Aviation Authority and the MMO, at least 14 days prior
to the commencement of the licensed activities, in writing of the following
information—

10.2.a

the date of the commencement of licensed activities;

10.2.b

the date any offshore electrical installations are first used;

10.2.c

the maximum height of any construction equipment or vessels to be used;

10.2.d

the maximum heights of any offshore electrical installations to be constructed
(including any antennae); and

10.2.e

the latitude and longitude of each offshore electrical installations to be
constructed,

and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding and the Civil
Aviation Authority must be notified of any changes to the information supplied
under this paragraph of this condition and of the completion of the
construction of the authorised scheme. Copies of notifications must be
provided to the MMO within five days of the notification being made.

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

11

11.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO all chemicals used in the
construction of the authorised scheme must be selected from the List of
Notified Chemicals approved for use by the offshore oil and gas industry under
the Offshore Chemicals Regulations 2002  as maintained by the Centre for
Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science.

11.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings or treatments are suitable for
use in the marine environment and are used in accordance with relevant
guidelines approved by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency.

11.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

11.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under the Order, by submission of a disposal return by
31 January each year for the months August to January inclusive, and by 31
July each year for the months February to July inclusive.

11.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
produced during the drilling installation of or seabed preparation for
foundations, and drilling mud is disposed of within the Order limits seaward
of MHWS.

11.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

11.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the MMO’s Local Office in writing within 48 hours of becoming aware of it and
if the MMO in consultation with the MCA and Trinity House, reasonably
considers such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard
(dependent on the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must
endeavour to locate the material and recover it at its own expense.

11.8

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the marine environment through the freeing ports.

11.9

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported in writing to the MMO, Marine Pollution
Response Team in accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan agreed
under condition  13(1)(d)(i) .

11.10

All dropped objects within the Order limits must be reported to the MMO using
the dropped object procedure form as soon as reasonably practicable following
the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the dropped object
procedure form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be carried out by the
undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so and the MMO may
require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the undertaker’s expense
if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

12

12.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to deposit the authorised deposits within or
outside of the Order limits because the safety of human life and/or of the
vessel is threatened, within 48 hours full details of the circumstances of the
deposit must be notified to the MMO in the manner provided in condition
11(10).

12.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

13

13.1

The licensed activities for each stage of construction of the authorised
scheme must not commence until the following (insofar as relevant to that
activity or stage of activity) have been submitted to and approved in writing
by the MMO in consultation with, where relevant, Trinity House, the MCA, the
UK Hydrographic Office and relevant SNCB—

13.1.a

A design plan or plans prepared in accordance with the layout principles at a
scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, or in such other format as may be
appropriate, including detailed representation on the most suitably scaled
chart, which shows, for the relevant stage—

13.1.a.i

the proposed location, including grid co-ordinates of the centre point of the
proposed location for each offshore electrical installation within the
relevant stage, subject to any micro-siting required due to anthropological
constraints, environmental constraints or difficult ground conditions
discovered post approval under this condition and choice of foundation of all
offshore electrical installations within the relevant stage;

13.1.a.ii

the height, length and width of all offshore electrical installations
(including any antennae) within the relevant stage;

13.1.a.iii

the length and arrangement of all cables comprised in Work Nos. 2, 3, and 5
within the relevant stage;

13.1.a.iv

the dimensions of all monopile foundations, mono suction bucket foundations,
jacket foundations, gravity base structures, pontoon gravity base type 1
structures and pontoon gravity base type 2 structures;

13.1.a.v

the proposed layout of all offshore electrical installations including any
exclusion zones identified under sub-paragraph  13(2)(d) ; and

13.1.a.vi

any exclusion zones or micrositing requirements identified in any mitigation
scheme pursuant to sub-paragraph  13(2)(d)  or relating to any habitats of
principal importance identified as part of surveys undertaken in accordance
with condition  17 ,

to ensure conformity with the description of Work Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 and
compliance with conditions  1 ,  2  and  3  above;

13.1.b

a construction programme to include details for the relevant stage of—

13.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

13.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works; and

13.1.b.iii

an indicative written construction programme for all offshore electrical
installations and electrical circuits comprised in the works at paragraph  2
of Part 1 (licensed marine activities) of this Schedule (insofar as not shown
in sub–paragraph  (ii)  above),

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO;

13.1.c

a construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details for the relevant
stage of—

13.1.c.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works and having regard to any mitigation scheme pursuant to sub-
paragraph  13(1)(f) ;

13.1.c.ii

advisory safe passing distances for vessels around construction sites;

13.1.c.iii

cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

13.1.c.iv

contractors;

13.1.c.v

vessels and vessels transit corridors;

13.1.c.vi

codes of conduct for vessel operators;

13.1.c.vii

associated ancillary works;

13.1.c.viii

guard vessels to be employed;

13.1.c.ix

details of means to address impacts on European sites, habitats of principal
importance and any international or nationally designated sites, where
relevant; and

13.1.c.x

measures to ensure appropriate co-ordination with the Marine Helicopter
Coordination Centre;

13.1.d

a construction project environmental management and monitoring plan covering
the period of construction of the relevant stage to include details of—

13.1.d.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with and report any spills and collision incidents of the
authorised scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

13.1.d.ii

a chemical risk review to include information regarding how and when chemicals
are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised best
practice guidance;

13.1.d.iii

a marine biosecurity plan detailing how the risk of introduction and spread of
invasive non-native species will be minimised;

13.1.d.iv

waste management and disposal arrangements;

13.1.d.v

a vessel management plan, to determine vessel routing to and from construction
sites and ports, to include a code of conduct for vessel operators; and

13.1.d.vi

the appointment and responsibilities of a company fisheries liaison officer;

13.1.e

a scour protection management plan for the relevant stage providing details of
the need, type, sources, quantity and installation methods for scour
protection, which plan must be updated and resubmitted in writing for approval
if changes to it are proposed following cable laying operations;

13.1.f

details for the relevant stage of proposed pre-construction surveys,
construction monitoring, post-construction monitoring and related reporting in
accordance with conditions  17 ,  18  and  19 ;

13.1.g

in the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used for the relevant stage, a piling marine mammal mitigation protocol for
that stage, in accordance with the outline marine mammal mitigation protocol,
the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine mammals, including
details of soft start procedures with specified duration periods following
current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory nature conservation
bodies;

13.1.h

a cable specification and installation plan for the relevant stage which
accords with the principles of the outline cable specification and
installation plan, to include—

13.1.h.i

technical specification of offshore cables (including fibre optic cable) below
MHWS within that stage, including a desk-based assessment of attenuation of
electro-magnetic field strengths, shielding and cable burial depth in
accordance with good industry practice;

13.1.h.ii

a detailed cable laying plan for the Order limits within that stage,
incorporating a burial risk assessment encompassing the identification of any
cable protection that exceeds 5% of navigable depth referenced to Chart Datum
and, in the event that any area of cable protection exceeding 5% of navigable
depth is identified, details of any steps (to be determined following
consultation with the MCA and Trinity House) to be taken to ensure existing
and future safe navigation is not compromised or similar such assessment to
ascertain suitable burial depths and cable laying techniques, including cable
protection;

13.1.h.iii

proposals for the volume and areas of cable protection to be used for each
cable crossing, and proposals for timing and methodology for reporting on
actual volumes and areas post construction within that stage; and

13.1.h.iv

proposals for monitoring offshore cables within that stage including cable
protection during the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme which
includes a risk based approach to the management of unburied or shallow buried
cables; and

13.1.i

an aids to navigation management plan for that stage to be agreed in writing
by the MMO following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of
how the undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 8 relating to
that stage for the lifetime of the authorised scheme.

13.2

Subject to condition  13(3)  the licensed activities or any relevant stage of
those activities must not commence unless no later than six months prior to
the commencement of a relevant stage a marine written scheme of archaeological
investigation for the stage of construction has been submitted to and approved
by the MMO in writing, in accordance with the outline marine written scheme of
investigation, and in accordance with industry good practice, in consultation
with the statutory historic body to include—

13.2.a

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

13.2.b

a method statement for further site investigation including any specifications
for geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

13.2.c

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within six months of any survey being completed;

13.2.d

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones prior to construction;

13.2.e

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction;

13.2.f

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the National Record of the Historic
Environment, by submitting a Historic England OASIS (‘online access to the
index of archaeological investigations’) form with a digital copy of the
report within six months of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme, and to notify the MMO (and East Riding of Yorkshire Council where the
report relates to the intertidal area) that the OASIS form has been submitted
to the National Record of the Historic Environment within two weeks of
submission;

13.2.g

a reporting and recording protocol, designed in reference to the Offshore
Renewables Protocol for Reporting Archaeological Discoveries as set out by the
Crown Estate and reporting of any wreck or wreck material during construction,
operation and decommissioning of the authorised scheme; and

13.2.h

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

13.3

Pre-construction archaeological investigations and pre-commencement material
operations which involve intrusive seabed works must only take place in
accordance with a written scheme of investigation specific to the relevant
pre–construction activities (which must accord with the details set out in the
outline marine written scheme of investigation) which has been submitted to
and approved by the MMO in consultation with the statutory historic body.

13.4

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive monopile foundations must
not exceed 5,000kJ and the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive pin pile
foundations must not exceed 3,000kJ.

13.5

No more than two vessels may be engaged at any time in activities related to
piling for the licenced activities. There will only be maximum installation of
two piled foundations within a 24-hour period. It is possible for installation
of the two piled foundations to occur concurrently i.e. within a 24-hour
period at up to two locations within the area of Work No. 3(a) or up to two
locations within the array. The two piled foundation locations may also be
piled simultaneously.

13.6

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until a fisheries coexistence and liaison plan in accordance with the outline
fisheries coexistence and liaison plan has been submitted to and approved by
the MMO in writing.

13.7

The undertaker must, before submitting any pre-construction plans and
documentation required under this condition, provide a copy of the plans and
documentation to any other undertaker to whom part of the benefit of this
Order has been transferred or leased pursuant to article  5  (benefit of the
Order) of the Order.

13.8

The undertaker to whom part of the benefit of the Order has been transferred
or leased pursuant to article  5  (benefit of the Order) must provide any
comments on the plans and documentation to the undertaker within 14 days of
receipt.

13.9

The undertaker and any other undertaker must participate in liaison meetings
as requested from time to time by the MMO in writing in advance and must
consider such matters as are determined by the MMO relating to the efficient
operation of a deemed marine licence issued under this Order (including as
varied or transferred).

14

14.1

Except where otherwise stated or agreed in writing with the MMO, each
programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved under
condition  13  (save for that required under condition  13(1)(f) ) must be
submitted for approval at least six months prior to the intended commencement
of the relevant stage of the licensed activities.

14.2

The pre-construction monitoring surveys, construction monitoring, post-
construction monitoring and related reporting required under condition
13(1)(f)  must be submitted in accordance with the following, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the MMO—

14.2.a

at least six months prior to the first survey of the relevant stage, detail of
any pre–construction surveys and an outline of all proposed monitoring;

14.2.b

at least six months prior to construction of the relevant stage, detail on
construction monitoring; and

14.2.c

at least six months prior to commissioning of the relevant stage, detail of
post-construction (and operational) monitoring.

14.3

The MMO must determine an application for consent made under condition 13
within a period of six months commencing on the date the application is
received by the MMO, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the undertaker
such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

14.4

The licensed activities for the relevant stage must be carried out in
accordance with the approved plans, protocols, statements, schemes and details
approved under condition  13 , unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

14.5

The plans, protocols, statements, schemes and details submitted under
condition 13 must ensure that any residual effects fall within the scope of
those predicted in the environmental statement.

###### Offshore safety management

15

No stage of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that stage of the authorised scheme
adequately addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised
scheme contained within MGN654 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations
(OREIs) – Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response
Issues” and its annexes.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

16

16.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

16.1.a

the name, company number, address and function of any agent, contractor or
sub-contractor appointed to engage in the licensed activities not less than
ten working days prior to such agent or contractor commencing any licensed
activity; and

16.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a list of the
vessels currently and to be used in relation to the licensed activities,
including the master’s name, vessel IMO number and vessel owner or operating
company.

16.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

16.3

The undertaker must notify the MMO in writing not less than 24 hours prior to
the commencement of major component exchanges, ladder replacements or cable
related works—

16.3.a

any agents, contractors or subcontractors that will carry out such works; and

16.3.b

any vessel proposed to be used for such works, including the master’s name,
vessel type, vessel IMO number and vessel owner or operating company.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

17

17.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(f) , for each stage of
construction submit a monitoring plan or plans for that stage in accordance
with an outline marine monitoring plan for written approval by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory bodies, which will contain details of
proposed surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format
and content for a pre-construction baseline report, and—

17.1.a

the survey proposals must be in accordance with the principles set out in the
outline marine monitoring plan and must specify each survey’s objectives and
explain how it will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison
with the post-construction position or will enable the validation or otherwise
of key predictions in the environmental statement; and

17.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the preconstruction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

17.2

Subject to receipt from the undertaker of specific proposals pursuant to this
condition the pre-construction surveys must comprise, in outline—

17.2.a

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a of the Order limits and an appropriate buffer outside
to—

17.2.a.i

determine the location, extent and composition of any biogenic or geogenic
reef features, as set out within the outline marine monitoring plan;

17.2.a.ii

inform future navigation risk assessments as part of the cable specification
and installation plan; and

17.2.a.iii

inform the identification of any archaeological exclusion zone and post
consent monitoring of any such archaeological exclusion zone.

17.2.b

a bathymetric survey that meets the requirements of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a of the
area within the following coordinates—

Development area node point WGS84 UTM Zone 31N (metres) WGS84 (DMS) WGS84
(decimal degrees) Easting Northing Latitude Longitude Latitude Longitude 1
401818 5992480 54° 4′ 16.157″ N 1° 29′ 58.386″ E 54.07115 1.49955 2 411109
5984944 54° 0′ 18.479″ N 1° 38′ 37.320″ E 54.00513 1.64370 3 397695 5985627
54° 0′ 31.626″ N 1° 26′ 19.993″ E 54.00878 1.43889 4 397800 5978992 53° 56′
57.085″ N 1° 26′ 33.766″ E 53.94919 1.44271 5 387657 5983579 53° 59′ 17.868″ N
1° 17′ 11.556″ E 53.98830 1.28654 6 401818 5992480 54° 4′ 16.157″ N 1° 29′
58.386″ E 54.07115 1.49955

17.3

The pre-construction survey(s) carried out pursuant to condition 17(2)(a)(ii)
and 17(2)(b) must fulfil the requirements of MGN654 and its supporting
‘Hydrographic Guidelines for Offshore Renewable Energy Developer’ (as
relevant).

17.4

The undertaker must carry out the surveys specified within the monitoring plan
or plans in accordance with that plan or plans, unless otherwise agreed in
writing by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
conservation body.

17.5

Following completion of a survey carried out pursuant to this condition and
prior to construction of the relevant stage, the undertaker must provide a
report and full density dataof the survey outcomes to the MMO, the relevant
statutory nature conservation body, the MCA and UK Hydrographic Office (as
relevant).

###### Construction monitoring

18

18.1

The undertaker must in discharging condition  13(1)(f)  for each stage of
construction submit a construction monitoring plan or plans for that stage in
accordance with an outline marine monitoring plan for written approval by the
MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body,
which must include details of any proposed construction monitoring, including
methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content and timings for
providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must be in accordance
with the principles set out in the outline marine monitoring plan and must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

18.2

Subject to receipt from the undertaker of specific proposals pursuant to this
condition the construction monitoring plan must include in outline details of—

18.2.a

vessel traffic monitoring by automatic identification system for the duration
of the construction period, with provision for a report to be submitted to the
MMO, Trinity House, and the MCA annually during the construction period for
the authorised development; and

18.2.b

where piled foundations are to be employed, unless otherwise agreed by the MMO
in writing, details of proposed monitoring of the noise generated by the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation type
to be constructed collectively under this licence and the licence granted
under Schedule 11 of the Order.

18.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph 18(2)(b) must be provided in writing to the MMO within six weeks
of the installation (unless otherwise agreed) of the first four piled
foundations of each piled foundation type. The assessment of this report by
the MMO will determine whether any further noise monitoring is required. If,
in the opinion of the MMO in consultation with the statutory nature
conservation body, the assessment shows impacts significantly in excess to
those assessed in the environmental statement and there has been a failure of
the mitigations set out in the marine mammal mitigation protocol, all piling
activity must cease until an update to the marine mammal mitigation protocol
and further monitoring requirements have been agreed.

18.4

The undertaker must carry out the surveys specified within the construction
monitoring plan or plans in accordance with that plan or plans, including any
further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO under condition 18 (3)
unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body.

###### Post-construction monitoring

19

19.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(f) , for each stage of
construction submit a post-construction monitoring plan or plans for that
stage in accordance with an outline marine monitoring plan for written
approval by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
conservation body including details of proposed post-construction surveys,
including methodologies (including appropriate buffers, where relevant) and
timings, and a proposed format, content and timings for providing reports on
the results. The survey proposals must be in accordance with the principles
set out in the outline marine monitoring plan and must specify each survey’s
objectives and explain how it will assist in either informing a useful and
valid comparison with the pre–construction position and/or will enable the
validation or otherwise of key predictions in the environmental statement.

19.2

Subject to receipt of specific proposals the post-construction survey plan or
plans must include, in outline—

19.2.a

details of a survey to determine any change in the location, extent and
composition of any biogenic or geogenic reef feature identified in the pre-
construction survey in the parts of the offshore Order limits in which
construction works were carried out. The survey design must be informed by the
results of the pre-construction benthic survey;

19.2.b

a bathymetric survey to monitor the effectiveness of archaeological exclusion
zones. The data will be analysed by an accredited archaeologist as defined in
the marine written scheme of archaeological investigation required under
condition  13(2) ;

19.2.c

vessel traffic monitoring by automatic identification system for a duration of
three consecutive years following the completion of construction of the
authorised scheme, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO, with
provision for a report to be submitted annually to the MMO, Trinity House, and
the MCA; and

19.2.d

a bathymetry survey of the installed export cable that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a and MGN654 Annex 4 ‘Hydrography Guidelines for Offshore
Renewable Energy Developers’.

19.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys specified within the post-
construction monitoring plan or plans in accordance with that plan or plans,
and provide the agreed reports in the agreed format unless otherwise agreed in
writing by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
conservation body.

19.4

Within 12 weeks of completion of any cable repair or replacement works, the
undertaker must undertake a post installation survey along the section of
cable that has undergone repair or replacement to demonstrate the successful
burial of the cable, and submit a report to the MMO on its findings.

###### Timing of monitoring report

20

Any monitoring report compiled in accordance with the monitoring plans
provided under conditions  17 ,  18  and  19  must be provided to the MMO no
later than four months following receipt by the undertaker of the results of
the monitoring to which it relates, unless otherwise agreed with the MMO in
writing.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving

21

21.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be used as
part of the foundation installation the undertaker must provide the following
information to the Marine Noise Registry—

21.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licensed activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the
Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

21.1.b

at six month intervals following the commencement of pile driving, information
on the locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements; and

21.1.c

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving, information on the
locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements.

21.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO in writing of the successful submission of
Forward Look or Close Out data pursuant to sub–paragraph  (1)  above within 7
days of the submission.

21.3

For the purpose of this condition “Forward Look” and “ Close Out ” means the
requirements as set out in the UK Marine Noise Registry Information Document
Version 1 (July 2015) as amended, updated or superseded from time to time.

###### HVAC booster station lighting plan

22

The undertaker must ensure that all HVAC booster stations are lit in
accordance with the HVAC booster station lighting plan.

###### Piling restriction

23

In the event that driven or part driven pile foundations are to be used to
install Work No. 3, no impact piling may be undertaken between 21 August and
23 October each year within the area of Work No. 3 as shown on the offshore
works plans unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO after consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

###### Maintenance reporting

24

24.1

An annual maintenance report must be submitted to the MMO in writing within
one month following the first anniversary of the date of commencement of
operations, and every year thereafter until permanent cessation of operation.

24.2

The report must provide a record of the licensed activities as set out in
condition 4 during the preceding year, the timing of activities and
methodologies used.

24.3

Every fifth year, the undertaker must submit to the MMO in writing, within one
month of that date, a consolidated maintenance report, which will—

24.3.a

include a review of licensed activities undertaken during the preceding five
years with reference to the reports submitted in accordance with condition
24(1)  of this licence;

24.3.b

reconfirm the applicability of the methodologies and frequencies of the
licensable activities permitted by this licence for the remaining duration of
this licence.

###### Stages of construction

25

25.1

The licenced activities must not be commenced until a written scheme setting
out the stages of construction of the authorised development seaward of MHWS
has been submitted to and approved by the MMO in writing.

25.2

The stages of construction referred to in sub–paragraph  (1)  will not permit
the authorised development to be constructed in more than one overall phase.

25.3

The scheme must be implemented as approved.

25.4

The written scheme referred to in sub–paragraph  (1)  must be submitted to the
MMO in writing four months prior to the planned commencement of the licenced
activities.

###### Completion of construction

26

The undertaker must submit a close out report to the MCA and the UK
Hydrographic Office within three months of the date of completion of
construction. The close out report must confirm the date of completion of
construction and must include the following—

26.a

a plan of the layout of installed export and inter-array cables, offshore
substations and booster stations; and

26.b

latitude and longitude coordinates of the location of export and inter-array
cables, offshore substations and booster stations, provided as Geographical
Information System data referenced to WGS84 datum.

###### Deployment of cable protection

27

Any cable protection authorised under this licence must be deployed within 15
years from the date of the grant of the order unless otherwise agreed by the
MMO in writing.

###### Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan

28

28.1

No piling activities can take place until a Site Integrity Plan (“ SIP ”),
which accords with the principles set out in the outline Southern North Sea
Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan, has been submitted to, and
approved in writing, by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

28.2

The SIP submitted for approval must contain a description of the conservation
objectives for the Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation (the “SNS
SAC”) as well as any relevant management measures and it must set out the key
statutory nature conservation body advice on activities within the SNS SAC
relating to piling as set out within the JNCC Guidance and how this has been
considered in the context of the authorised scheme.

28.3

The SIP must be submitted to the MMO no later than six months prior to the
commencement of the piling activities.

28.4

In approving the SIP, the MMO must be satisfied that the authorised scheme at
the pre-construction stage, in-combination with other plans and projects, is
in line with the JNCC Guidance.

28.5

The approved SIP may be amended with the prior written approval of the MMO, in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body, where the
MMO remains satisfied that the Project, in-combination with other plans or
projects at the preconstruction stage, is in line with the JNCC guidance.

  MODIFICATIONS TO AND AMENDMENTS OF THE DOGGER BANK CREYKE BECK OFFSHORE WIND
FARM ORDER 2015

Article 46

##### Schedule 12 to the Dogger Bank Creyke Beck Offshore Wind Farm Order 2015

1

After Part 5 of Schedule 12 insert a new Part 6—

######### PROTECTION OF ORSTED HORNSEA PROJECT FOUR LIMITED

########## Application

1.1

The following provisions of this Part of this Schedule will have effect unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Hornsea Four.

########## Interpretation

1.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ acceptable insurance ” means a third party liability insurance effected and
maintained by the undertaker to a level of not less than  £50,000,000.00
(fifty million pounds) (or such lower amount as may be agreed by Hornsea Four)
per occurrence or series of occurrences arising out of one event. Such
insurance shall be maintained for the construction period of the authorised
development which constitute specified works and arranged with an
internationally recognised insurer of repute operating in the London and
worldwide insurance market underwriters whose security/credit rating meets the
same requirements as an “acceptable credit provider”, such policy shall
include (but without limitation)— Hornsea Four as a Co-Insured; a cross
liabilities clause; and contractors’ pollution liability for third party
property damage and third party bodily damage arising from a
pollution/contamination event with cover of £10,000,000.00 (ten million
pounds) per event or £20,000,000.00 (twenty million pounds) in aggregate; “
ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by Hornsea Four (such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary
measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event; “ ground monitoring scheme ”
means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the Hornsea
Four authorised development which is to be subject to such monitoring, the
extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be
monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the undertaker to submit
for Hornsea Four’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence
event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities
set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described
in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;  ...
“ the Hornsea Four authorised development ” means the onshore development
authorised by the Hornsea Four Order; “ the Hornsea Four Order ” means the
Hornsea Four Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023; “ the Hornsea Four Order land ”
has the same meaning as the term “Order land” in article 2(1) of the Hornsea
Four Order; “ Hornsea Four ” means Orsted Hornsea Project Four Limited,
(Company No. 08584182) whose registered office is at 5 Howick Place, London,
England, SW1P 1WG or any person having the benefit of the Hornsea Four Order
pursuant to article 5 thereof; “ the Order ” means this Order; “ the
respective authorised developments ” means the developments authorised by the
Order and the Hornsea Four Order respectively; and “ specified works ” means
the carrying out of any of the authorised development over, under or within 15
metres of the Hornsea Four authorised development or in the event that the
Hornsea Four authorised development has not been constructed within the
Hornsea Four Order land.

########## Regulation of powers over the Hornsea Four Order land

1.3

1.3.1

The undertaker may not exercise the powers under any of the articles of the
Order specified in sub-paragraph (2) over or in respect of the Hornsea Four
Order land otherwise than with the prior written consent of Hornsea Four.

1.3.2

The articles referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are—

1.3.2.a

article 13 (street works);

1.3.2.b

article 14 (temporary stopping up of streets);

1.3.2.c

article 15 (access to works);

1.3.2.d

article 17 (discharge of water);

1.3.2.e

article 19 (authority to survey and investigate land);

1.3.2.f

article 28 (rights under or over streets);

1.3.2.g

article 29 (temporary use of land for carrying out authorised project);

1.3.2.h

article 30 (  (temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project)  ;
and

1.3.2.i

article 36 (trees subject to tree preservation orders).

1.3.3

In the event that Hornsea Four withholds its consent pursuant to sub-paragraph
(1) it will notify the undertaker in writing of the reasons for withholding
such consent and (if applicable) the time period during which such consent
will be withheld.

########## Co-operation

1.4

Wherever in this Part of this Schedule provision is made with respect to the
approval or consent of Hornsea Four, that approval or consent shall be in
writing (and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as the undertaker
may require), but shall not be unreasonably withheld.

1.5

In the event that Hornsea Four does not respond in writing to a request for
approval or consent within 28 days of receipt of such a request, Hornsea Four
is deemed to have given its consent (without any terms or conditions).

1.6

Insofar as the construction of the respective authorised developments is or
may be undertaken concurrently, the undertaker shall—

1.6.a

co-operate with Hornsea Four with a view to ensuring—

1.6.a.i

the co-ordination of construction programming and the carrying out of works;
and

1.6.a.ii

that access for the purposes of constructing the respective authorised
developments is maintained for the undertaker and Hornsea Four and their
respective contractors; and

1.6.b

use reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the carrying
out of the respective authorised developments.

1.7

Insofar as the construction of the authorised development gives rise to the
need to modify any scheme secured by a requirement contained in Part 3,
Schedule 1 to the Hornsea Four Order, the undertaker will provide such
assistance as is reasonably necessary to support Hornsea Four in pursuing any
such modification.

########## Requirements

1.8

Insofar as compliance with paragraph 3(1) of this Part prevents the undertaker
from complying with any requirement contained in  Part 3  of Schedule 1 to the
Order, the undertaker will not be in breach of such requirement for the time
period specified in paragraph 3(3).

1.9

In the event that paragraph 8 applies, the undertaker will provide the
relevant planning authority with a copy of the reasons given by Hornsea Four
for refusing consent and the time period pursuant to paragraph 3(3).

1.10

It will be a defence for any person charged with an offence pursuant to
section 161 of the Planning Act 2008 (Breach of terms of order granting
development consent) to prove that they were not able to comply with a
requirement contained in  Part 3  of Schedule 1 to the Order due to the effect
of paragraph 3 of this Part.

########## Protection of Hornsea Four

1.11

1.11.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Hornsea Four a plan and, if reasonably required by
Hornsea Four, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

1.11.2

The plan to be submitted to Hornsea Four under sub-paragraph (1) must include
a method statement and describe—

1.11.2.a

the exact position of the works;

1.11.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

1.11.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

1.11.2.d

the position of all Hornsea Four authorised development;

1.11.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any of the Hornsea Four authorised development; and

1.11.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

1.11.3

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)
apply until Hornsea Four has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

1.11.4

Any approval of Hornsea Four required under sub-paragraph (3)—

1.11.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5) or (7); and,

1.11.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

1.11.5

In relation to a work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and/or (2) apply, Hornsea
Four may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing the Hornsea Four authorised
development against interference or risk of damage or for the provision of
protective works or for the purpose of providing or securing proper and
convenient means of access to any of the Hornsea Four authorised development.

1.11.6

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) or as relevant sub-
paragraph (5), as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and Hornsea Four and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) and/or (7)
by Hornsea Four for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
Hornsea Four authorised development, or for securing access to it, and Hornsea
Four will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

1.11.7

Where Hornsea Four requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to Hornsea Four’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified
works for which protective works are required and Hornsea Four must give
notice of its requirement for such protective works within 42 days of the date
of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

1.11.8

Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing
the execution of any specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will
apply to and in respect of the new plan.

1.11.9

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to Hornsea Four notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a
plan of those works and must—

1.11.9.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

1.11.9.b

comply with sub-paragraph (10) at all times.

1.11.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker shall implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that Hornsea Four retains the right
to carry out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of
its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 12.

########## Expenses

1.12

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between Hornsea Four and the undertaker
and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
pay to Hornsea Four within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from Hornsea all charges, costs and expenses reasonably incurred by Dogger
Bank in, or in connection with this Part of this Schedule including without
limitation—

1.12.a

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

1.12.b

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

########## Indemnity

1.13

1.13.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
onshore elements of the authorised development by or on behalf of the
undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any
person employed or authorised by him) in the course of carrying out the
onshore elements of the authorised development (including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works), any damage is caused to any
apparatus or property of Hornsea Four, or there is any interruption in any
service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by Hornsea Four, or Hornsea
Four becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker will—

1.13.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Hornsea Four
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by Hornsea Four in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

1.13.1.b

indemnify Hornsea Four for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from Hornsea Four,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or Hornsea Four
becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from any
default by Hornsea Four.

1.13.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Hornsea Four on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Hornsea Four or in
accordance with any requirement of Hornsea Four as a consequence of the
onshore elements of the authorised development or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies) ... excuse the undertaker from
liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (2) where the undertaker
fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention
and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord
with the approved plan or as otherwise agreed between the undertaker and
Hornsea Four.

1.13.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the neglect or default of Hornsea Four, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

1.13.4

Hornsea Four must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand must
be made, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme without first consulting the undertaker and considering
its representations.

1.13.5

Hornsea Four must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in
part and to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands and penalties to which
the indemnity under sub-paragraph (1) applies. If requested to do so by the
undertaker, Hornsea Four must provide an explanation of how the claim has been
minimised. The undertaker is only liable under sub-paragraph (1) for   any
claim reasonably incurred by Hornsea Four.

1.13.6

The undertaker must not commence construction (and must not permit the
commencement of such construction) of any specified works until Hornsea Four
is satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to all necessary regulatory
constraints) that the undertaker or its contractor has procured acceptable
insurance (and provided evidence to Hornsea Four that it shall maintain such
acceptable insurance for the construction period of the specified works from
the proposed date of commencement of construction of the specified works) and
Hornsea Four has confirmed the same in writing to the undertaker.

1.13.7

In the event that the undertaker fails to comply with paragraph 13(6) of this
Part of this Schedule, nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall prevent
Hornsea Four from seeking injunctive relief (or any other equitable remedy) in
any court of competent jurisdiction.

########## Arbitration

1.14

1.14.1

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Hornsea Four
under this Part of this Schedule shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Hornsea Four, be referred to and settled in
arbitration in accordance with the Rules at Schedule 14 of the Hornsea Four
Order, by a single arbitrator to be agreed upon by the parties within 14 days
of receipt of the notice of arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree
within the time period stipulated, to be appointed on application of either
party (after giving written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

1.14.2

Should the Secretary of State fail to appoint an arbitrator under paragraph
(1) within 14 days of the application, the referring party may refer to the
Centre of Effective Dispute Resolution for appointment of an arbitrator.

1.14.3

Article 44 (arbitration) will not apply to any difference or dispute under any
provision of this Part of this Schedule.

########## Access

1.15

If in consequence of any specified works approved in accordance with this Part
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable Hornsea Four to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

.

  ARBITRATION RULES

Article 39

##### Primary objective

1

1.1

The primary objective of these Arbitration Rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within 4 months from the date the arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article  39  of the Order.

1.2

The parties shall first use their reasonable endeavours to settle a dispute
amicably through negotiations undertaken in good faith by the senior
management of the parties. Any dispute which is not resolved amicably by the
senior management of the parties within twenty (20) working days of the
dispute arising, or such longer period as agreed in writing by the parties,
shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.

1.3

The Arbitration will be deemed to have commenced when a party (“the Claimant”)
serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (“the Respondent”).

##### Time periods

2

2.1

All time periods in these Arbitration Rules are measured in working days and
this will exclude weekends, bank holidays and public holidays.

2.2

Time periods are calculated from the day after the arbitrator is appointed
which is either—

2.2.a

the date the arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable

3

3.1

The timetable for the arbitration is set out in sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (4)
below unless amended in accordance with paragraph  5(3) .

3.2

Within 15 days of the arbitrator being appointed, the Claimant must provide
both the Respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written Statement of Claim which describes the nature of the difference
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the Claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, and the remedy it is seeking; and

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 15 days of receipt of the Claimant’s statements under sub-paragraph
(2)  by the arbitrator and Respondent, the Respondent must provide the
Claimant and the arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written Statement of Defence responding to the Claimant’s Statement of
Claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the difference, the legal and
factual issues in the Claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any element(s) of
the Claimant’s claim, its contentions as to those elements of the Claimant’s
claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports; and

3.3.c

any objections it wishes to make to the Claimant’s statements, comments on the
Claimant’s expert report(s) (if submitted by the Claimant) and explanations
for the objections.

3.4

Within 5 days of the Respondent serving its statements   under  sub-paragraph
(3) , the Claimant may make a Statement of Reply by providing both the
Respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the Respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the Respondent; and

3.4.e

its written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure

4

4.1

The arbitrator must make an award on the substantive difference(s) based
solely on the written material submitted by the parties unless the arbitrator
decides that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.2

Either party may, within 2 days of delivery of the last submission, request a
hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is required.

4.3

Within 5 days of receiving the last submission, the arbitrator must notify the
parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.4

Within 10 days of the arbitrator advising the parties that they will hold a
hearing, the date and venue for the hearing will be fixed by agreement with
the parties, save that if there is no agreement the arbitrator must direct a
date and venue which they consider is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.5

A decision must be made by the arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the arbitrator, then any expert(s) attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the arbitrator.

4.6

There is no process of examination and cross-examination of experts, but the
arbitrator must invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way of
clarification of any answers given by the expert(s) in response to the
arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing the procedure for the expert(s)
is—

4.6.a

at least 20 days before a hearing, the arbitrator must provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the expert(s);

4.6.b

if more than one expert is called, they are to jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within 10 days of the issues being provided; and

4.6.c

the form and content of a joint report must be as directed by the arbitrator
and must be provided at least 5 days before the hearing.

4.7

Within 10 days of a hearing or a decision by the arbitrator that no hearing is
to be held the Parties may by way of exchange provide the arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The arbitrator must take these submissions into account in the
award.

4.8

The arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within 4 months of the date
on which they are appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree to an
extension to the date for the award.

4.9

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the information before them
attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond any
timetable or in breach of any procedure and/or direction.

4.10

The arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties must accept that the
extent to which reasons are given will be proportionate to the issues in
dispute and the time available to the arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers

5

5.1

The arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996 , including the
non-mandatory sections, save where modified by these Arbitration Rules.

5.2

There will be no discovery or disclosure, except that the arbitrator has the
power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the Statement of Reply, or by the
arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders are to be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the arbitrator may vary the timescales and/or procedure—

5.3.a

if the arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice and
then;

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the arbitrator will notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it is to be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs

6

6.1

The costs of the Arbitration must include the fees and expenses of the
arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the Arbitration.

6.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , the arbitrator must award recoverable costs on
the general principle that each party should bear its own costs.

6.3

The arbitrator may depart from the general principle in sub-paragraph  (2)
and make such other costs award as it considers reasonable where a party has
behaved unreasonably as set out in the Planning Practice Guidance or such
other guidance as may replace it.

##### Confidentiality

7

7.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , any arbitration hearing and
documentation shall be open to and accessible by the public.

7.2

The arbitrator may direct that the whole or part of a hearing is to be private
or any documentation to be confidential where it is necessary in order to
protect commercially sensitive information.

7.3

Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any disclosure of a document by a
party pursuant to an order of a court in England and Wales or where disclosure
is required under any enactment.

  DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Article 38

##### DOCUMENTS FORMING THE ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT TO BE CERTIFIED

          (1)       Application Document No.         (2)       Examination
Library Reference         (3)       Document Description         (4)
Version         (5)       Date       A1, A2 and A3 APP-006 to APP-034 The
environmental statement 1 8 October 2021 A4 APP-035 to APP-066 Figures 1 8
October 2021 A5 and A6 APP-067 to APP-128 Technical Appendices 1 8 October
2021

##### EXAMINATION DOCUMENTS FORMING PART OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT TO BE CERTIFIED

          (1)       Application Document No. (and relevant ES Chapters)
(2)       Examination Library Reference (and relevant ES Chapter reference)
(3)       Document Description         (4)       Version         (5)
Date       A2.2 REP7-004 Benthic and Intertidal Ecology 2 10 August 2022
A5.2.1.1 REP7-013 Benthic Intertidal Ecology Technical Report 2 10 August 2022
A2.6 REP5-004 Commercial Fisheries 2 20 June 2022 A4.4.4 REP6-004 Dredging and
disposal site 2 27 July 2022 A3.3.1 AS-008 Ecology and Nature Conservation
Schedule of Change 1 17 January 2022 A1.5.1 AS-007 Environmental Impact
Assessment Methodology Schedule of Change 1 17 January 2022 G1.2 AS-020
Environmental Risk Assessment of the Onshore Substation and Energy Balancing
Infrastructure 1 17 January 2022 A6.4.1 REP5-010 Landscape and visual
resources wireframes and photomontages 2 20 June 2022 A5.7.1 REP4-009
Navigational risk assessment part 1 2 10 May 2022 A5.7.1 REP4-011 Navigational
risk assessment part 2 2 10 May 2022 A5.7.1 REP4-013 Navigational risk
assessment part 3 2 10 May 2022 A5.11.1 REP3-005 Offshore installation
interfaces part 1 2 21 April 2022 A5.11.1 REP2-059 Offshore installation
interfaces part 2 2 29 March 2022 A5.5.2 REP2-003 Offshore ornithology
displacement analysis 2 29 March 2022 A5.5.5.1 AS-010 Offshore Ornithology
Migratory Birds report Schedule of Change 1 17 January 2022 G5.25 REP6-028
Ornithology Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Habitats Regulation
Assessment (HRA) Revision 2 3 27 July 2022 A4.4.8 REP6-006 Pro-rata Annex
Revision 4 4 27 July 2022 NTS1.1.1 AS-022 Response to post-Acceptance s51
advice: NTS1.1.1 Non Technical Summary of Schedule of Change 1 17 January 2022
G5.9 REP5a-009 Revised Ornithology Baseline Revision 2 2 4 July 2022 A2.7
REP5-006 Shipping and Navigation 2 20 June 2022 A1.4 REP7-002 Volume A4
Chapter 4: Project Description Revision 7 7 10 August 2022

##### OTHER DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

(1) Examination Library Reference (2) Document Name (3) Version (4) Date
APP-213 the access to works plan 1 8 October 2021 REP7-049 the book of
reference 4 10 August 2022 REP5-084 the Bridge protected area plan 1 20 June
2022 REP6-008 the commitments register 3 27 July 2022 APP-221 the crown land
plans – onshore and offshore 1 8 October 2021 REP7-027 the guillemot and
razorbill compensation plan 3 10 August 2022 APP-252 the HVAC booster station
lighting plan 1 8 October 2021 Post-examination G14.2 Johnston protective
provisions plan 1 16 May 2023 REP5-016 the kittiwake compensation plan 2 20
June 2022 APP-210 the land plans 1 8 October 2021 REP5-008 the layout
principles 3 20 June 2022 APP-206 the location plans – Offshore 1 8 October
2021 APP-207 the location plans - Onshore 1 8 October 2021 REP7-106 the NEO
protective provisions plan, Appendix B 1 APP-208 the offshore Order limits and
grid coordinates plan 1 8 October 2021 REP5-037 the offshore works plans 2 20
June 2022 APP-040 the onshore crossing schedule 1 8 October 2021 APP-209 the
onshore Order limits plan 1 8 October 2021 REP5-038 the onshore works plans 2
20 June 2022 Post-examination the outline cable specification and installation
plan 5 17 April 2023 REP4-019 the outline code of construction practice 3 10
May 2022 REP4-019 the outline construction traffic management plan 3 10 May
2022 REP4-021 the outline design plan 2 10 May 2022 REP1-029 the outline
ecological management plan 2 8 March 2022 APP-253 the outline employment and
skills plan 1 8 October 2021 REP2-029 the outline energy balancing
infrastructure HazID report 2 29 March 2022 APP-249 the outline enhancement
strategy 1 8 October 2021 REP1-033 the outline fisheries coexistence and
liaison plan 2 8 March 2022 REP3-010 the outline landscape management plan 4
21 April 2022 REP6-011 the outline marine mammal mitigation protocol 2 27 July
2022   Post-examination F2.7   the outline marine monitoring plan   3     11
May 2023   REP5-042 the outline marine written scheme of investigation 2 20
June 2022 APP-251 the outline net gain strategy 1 8 October 2021 APP-241 the
outline onshore infrastructure drainage strategy 1 8 October 2021 Post
examination the outline offshore operations and maintenance plan 3 17 April
2023 APP-254 the outline ornithological monitoring plan 1 8 October 2021
REP7-054 the outline southern north sea special area of conservation site
integrity plan 2 10 August 2022 REP3-012 the outline written scheme of
investigation for onshore archaeology 2 21 April 2022 REP6-006 the pro-rata
annex 4 27 July 2022 APP-215 the public rights of way plan 1 8 October 2021
APP-214 the streets plan 1 8 October 2021 APP-220 the tree preservation order
and hedgerow plan 1 8 October 2021

  COMPENSATION TO PROTECT THE COHERENCE OF THE NATIONAL SITE NETWORK

Article 49

##### OFFSHORE ORNITHOLOGY ENGAGEMENT GROUP

1

In this Schedule—

      “ the FFC ” means the site designated as the Flamborough and Filey Coast
Special Protection Area;           “ GCIMP ” means the guillemot compensation
implementation and monitoring plan for the delivery of measures to compensate
for the predicted loss of adult guillemot from the FFC as a result of the
authorised development;           “ KCIMP ” means the kittiwake compensation
implementation and monitoring plan for the delivery of measures to compensate
for the predicted loss of adult kittiwakes from the FFC as a result of the
authorised development;           “ the guillemot and razorbill compensation
plan ” means the document certified as the guillemot and razorbill
compensation plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 38 (certification of plans and documents, etc);           “the
Hornsea Four Offshore Ornithology Engagement Group” or “ H4 OOEG ” means the
group that will assist, through consultation, the undertaker in the delivery
of the compensation measures identified in the kittiwake compensation plan and
the guillemot and razorbill compensation plan;           “ the kittiwake
compensation plan ” means the document certified as the kittiwake compensation
plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38
(certification of plans and documents, etc.);           “ the offshore
compensation measures ” means, as the context requires, bycatch reduction
and/or the offshore nesting structure;           “ the onshore compensation
measure ” means, as the context requires, predator eradication and/or the
onshore nesting structure; and           “ UK NSN ” means the United Kingdom
National Site Network as defined in regulation 3 of the Conservation of
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017.

2

Work Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 together with any associated development offshore
may not be commenced until a plan for the work of the H4 OOEG has been
submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State, such plan to include—

2.a

terms of reference of the H4 OOEG;

2.b

details of the membership of the H4 OOEG which must include—

2.b.i

the MMO and the relevant SNCB as core members for the offshore compensation
measures;

2.b.ii

the relevant local planning authority and Natural England as core members for
the onshore compensation measures;

2.b.iii

the RSPB, The Wildlife Trust and Alderney Wildlife Trust as advisory members,
for both the onshore compensation measures and/or the offshore compensation
measures subject to their area of expertise;

2.c

details of the proposed schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation   of
the KCIMP and GCIMP   and reporting and review periods;

2.d

the dispute resolution mechanism and confidentiality provisions; and

2.e

the scope of work to be limited to the topics for discussion as identified by
the appointed chair to include in relation to the compensation measure,
monitoring and adaptive management.

##### KITTIWAKE COMPENSATION

3

Following consultation with the H4 OOEG, the KCIMP must be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval in consultation with the MMO and relevant SNCB
for the offshore compensation measure, and with the relevant local planning
authority and relevant SNCB for any onshore measure (if such measure is
required). The KCIMP must be based on the strategy for kittiwake compensation
set out in the kittiwake compensation plan and include—

3.a

Details of the location where the compensation measure will be delivered and
the suitability of the site to deliver the measures (including why the
location is appropriate ecologically and likely to support successful
compensation);

3.b

in relation to an offshore structure, details of any relevant seabed
agreement(s);

3.c

details of the design of the artificial nesting structure(s) to provide
nesting for at least 750 pairs of kittiwake in total; including the projected
number of nests that will be accommodated on the structure, and how risks from
predation and other perturbations have been designed out or mitigated;

3.d

an implementation timetable for delivery of the artificial nesting structure,
such timetable to ensure that the structure is in place to allow for at least
four full kittiwake breeding seasons prior to operation of any turbine forming
part of the authorised development. For the purposes of this paragraph each
breeding season is assumed to have commenced on 1 April in each year and ended
on 30 September;

3.e

details of the maintenance schedule for the artificial nesting structure;

3.f

details for the proposed ongoing monitoring and reporting of the effectiveness
of the measures including—

3.f.i

survey methods;

3.f.ii

survey programmes;

3.f.iii

success criteria; and

3.f.iv

timescales for the monitoring reports to be delivered;

3.g

recording of H4 OOEG consultations and project reviews;

3.h

details of any adaptive management measures, with details of the factors used
to trigger any alternative and/or adaptive management measures; and

3.i

monitoring should include annual monitoring of the number of birds colonising
the site including sufficient detail to identify barriers to breeding success
(including nesting attempts and nest productivity) and target alternative or
adaptive compensation measures. Evidence of natal dispersal and colony
interchange with the UK NSN and FFC kittiwake colony should be included.
Information of any other seabirds attempting to and/ or successfully nesting
on the ANS should also be recorded.

4

The undertaker must implement the measures set out in the KCIMP approved by
the Secretary of State, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State in
consultation with the relevant SNCB, MMO and the relevant local planning
authority. No operation of any turbine forming part of the authorised
development may begin until the KCIMP has been approved by the Secretary of
State and four full breeding seasons following the implementation of the
measures set out in the KCIMP have taken place. For the purposes of this
paragraph each breeding season is assumed to have commenced on 1 April in each
year and ended on 30 September.

5

The undertaker must notify the Secretary of State of completion of
construction of the artificial nesting structure as set out in the KCIMP.

6

Results from the monitoring scheme must be submitted at least annually to the
Secretary of State and the relevant SNCB. This must include any finding   (if
relevant)  that the measures have been ineffective in securing an increase in
the number of adult kittiwakes available to recruit into the FCC and in such
case proposals to address this. Any proposals to address effectiveness must
thereafter be implemented by the undertaker as approved in writing by the
Secretary of State in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
conservation body.

7

The artificial nesting structure must not be decommissioned without prior
written approval of the Secretary of State in consultation with relevant SNCB.
The artificial nest structures shall be maintained beyond the operational
lifetime of the authorised development if they are colonised, and routine and
adaptive management measures and monitoring must continue whilst the
artificial nesting structures are in place.

8

The KCIMP approved under this Schedule includes any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State. Any amendments
to or variations of the approved KCIMP must be in accordance with the
principles set out in the kittiwake compensation plan and may only be approved
where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State
that it is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects from those considered in the kittiwake compensation
plan.

9

In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Order and the kittiwake
compensation plan or the KCIMP then the provisions of this Order shall
prevail.

##### GUILLEMOT COMPENSATION

10

Following consultation with the H4 OOEG, the GCIMP must be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval in consultation with the MMO and relevant SNCB
for the offshore compensation measure, and with Natural England, the local
planning authority and Alderney Wildlife Trust for the onshore compensation
measure. The GCIMP must be based on the strategy for guillemot compensation
set out in the guillemot and razorbill compensation plan (as relevant to
guillemot) and include—

10.a

for the predator eradication measure—

10.a.i

details of the location(s) where the compensation measure will be delivered;

10.a.ii

details of the number of nest sites that need to be created within the Herm
Island complex (Herm, Jethou, including Grand Fauconniere and the Humps) and
locations around Alderney. This must take into account both the number of
chicks that will need to be produced to ensure that the required number of
adults survive to adulthood and the proportion of adult birds that are
expected to be recruited into the UK NSN;

10.a.iii

details of how any necessary land access rights, licences and approvals have
or will be obtained and any biosecurity measures will be or have been secured;

10.a.iv

an implementation timetable for delivery of the predator eradication measure,
such timetable to ensure that the predator eradication method has commenced no
later than two years prior to the commencement of Work No. 1(a) and 1(b), Work
No. 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) and Work No. 3(a);

10.a.v

details for the proposed ongoing monitoring of the measure including—

10.a.v.aa

survey methods for predators and seabirds;

10.a.v.bb

success criteria;

10.a.v.cc

survey and reporting programmes ;

10.a.v.dd

seabird productivity rates;

10.a.v.ee

seabird breeding population;

10.a.v.ff

distribution of breeding seabirds; and

10.a.v.gg

evidence of guillemot natal dispersal to the UK NSN;

10.a.vi

recording of H4 OOEG consultations and project reviews;

10.a.vii

details of any adaptive management measures, with details of the factors used
to trigger any such measures. Such measures should consider offshore
artificial nesting structures for guillemot;

10.a.viii

provision for reporting to the Secretary of State, to include details of the
use of the location(s) by breeding guillemot to identify barriers to success
and target any adaptive management measures;

10.b

for the bycatch reduction measure—

10.b.i

details of relevant technology supply agreements and arrangements with fishers
to use the bycatch reduction technology that will be or have been secured by
the undertaker;

10.b.ii

the locations where the measures will be deployed and the number of fishing
vessels to be included in the scheme;

10.b.iii

an implementation timetable for provision of the bycatch reduction measure,
such timetable to ensure that contract(s) are entered into with fishers for
the provision and use of bycatch reduction technology no later than one year
prior to the commencement of Work No. 1(a) and 1(b), Work No. 2(a), 2(b) and
2(c) and Work No. 3(a);

10.b.iv

details for the proposed ongoing monitoring of the measure including
collection of data from participating fishers;

10.b.v

the success criteria, defined as the estimated reduction in the number of
guillemot killed;

10.b.vi

recording of H4 OOEG consultations and project reviews;

10.b.vii

details of any adaptive management measures and details of the factors used to
trigger any such measures; and

10.b.viii

provision for annual reporting to the Secretary of State, to identify barriers
to success and target the adaptive management measures.

11

The undertaker must carry out the predator eradication method and enter into
contract(s) with fishers for the provision and use of bycatch reduction
technology as set out in the GCIMP approved by the Secretary of State in
consultation with Natural England, the Alderney Wildlife Trust and the local
planning authority for the onshore measures and the relevant SNCB and MMO for
the offshore measures. Work No. 1(a) and 1(b), Work No. 2(a), 2(b) and (c) and
Work No. 3(a) must not commence until the GCIMP has been approved by the
Secretary of State in accordance with paragraph 10, and at least 2 years have
elapsed since the start of the predator eradication works and at least one
year after the contract(s) with fishers for the provision and use of bycatch
reduction technology have been entered into.

12

The undertaker must notify the Secretary of State of completion of the
predator eradication method and entering into contract(s) with fishers for the
provision and use of bycatch reduction technology set out in the GCIMP.

13

The GCIMP approved under this Schedule includes any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State. Any amendments
to or variations of the approved GCIMP must be in accordance with the
principles set out in the guillemot and razorbill compensation plan (as
relevant to guillemot) and may only be approved where it has been demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that it is unlikely to give rise
to any materially new or materially different environmental effects from those
considered in the guillemot and razorbill compensation plan (as relevant to
guillemot).

14

In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Order and the guillemot
compensation plan or the GCIMP then the provisions of this Order shall
prevail.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order grants development consent for, and authorises the construction,
operation and maintenance of an offshore wind farm generating station located
in the North Sea 69 kilometres due east of Flamborough Head at its closest
point together with associated development. This Order imposes requirements in
connection with the development and authorises the compulsory purchase of land
(including rights in land) and the right to use land and to override easements
and other rights.

  This Order also grants deemed marine licences under Part 4 of the Marine and
Coastal Access Act 2009 in connection with the wind farm. The marine licences
impose conditions in connection with the deposits and works for which they
grant consent.

  A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in this Order and
certified in accordance with article  38  (certification of plans and
documents, etc.) together with a copy of any guarantee or alternative form of
security approved by the Secretary of State pursuant to article  45
(funding), may be inspected free of charge at the offices of East Riding of
Yorkshire Council at County Hall, Beverley, East Riding of Yorkshire, HU17
9BA.

