Title: The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (c. 2) (“PSPA (NI) 2014”) makes provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “scheme regulations” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2014), about the establishment of public service pension schemes. The Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 (S.R. 2014/310) (“the 2014 Regulations”) are the scheme regulations establishing the successor teacher pension scheme (“the reformed scheme”) to the scheme established by the Teachers’ Superannuation Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1998 (S.R. 1998/333) (“the legacy scheme”). The 2014 Regulations provided for transitional protection for certain cohorts of legacy scheme members. This transitional protection was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between teacher pension scheme members on the basis of age.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/131

## The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Public Service Pensions

  Made   7 th September 2023

  Coming into operation   1st October 2023

      The Department of Education makes the following Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(d), 2(1) (as read with
paragraph 4 of Schedule 2) and 3(1), (2)(a) (as read with paragraph 13 of
Schedule 3) and (c) and (3) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern
Ireland) 2014  (“ the 2014 Act ”) and sections 5(1) and (5), 6(1), 7(3), 8(1)
and (3), 10(1), 11(1) and (5), 12(1) and (3), 18(1) to (3), (5), (6) and (8),
19(1), (4) and (5), 20(1), (4) and (5), 21, 22(1) and (6), 24(1), 25(1) and
(4), 26(1) and (2), and 29(1), (7) and (8) of the Public Service Pensions and
Judicial Offices Act 2022 . (“PSPJOA 2022”).       In accordance with section
3(5) of the 2014 Act, these Regulations are made with the consent of the
Department of Finance.           In accordance with section 21(1) of the 2014
Act, the Department of Education has consulted the representatives of such
persons as appear to the Department likely to be affected by these
Regulations.

### Introductory provisions


#### Citation and commencement


1

– These Regulations may be cited as the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (Remediable
Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and come into operation on 1 st
October 2023.

#### Interpretation


2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022;           “ the 1998 Regulations ” means the Teachers’
Superannuation Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1998 ;           “ the 2014
Regulations ” means the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2014 ;           “ the PSP (NI) Directions 2023 ” means the Public
Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and Information) Directions
(Northern Ireland) 2023;           “ deferred choice decision ” has the
meaning given in regulation 12(1);           “ deferred choice decision-maker
” means the person who may make a deferred choice election decision under
regulation  12(2) ;           “ deferred choice member ” means a member with
remediable teacher service who is not an immediate choice member;           “
deferred choice pension ” means a pension the rate of which—         is not
determined (by any extent) by reference to the member’s remediable service,
and           is not affected by the coming into force of section 2(1) of
PSPJOA 2022;                 “ end of the section 10 election period ”, in
relation to a deferred choice member, means the end of the day determined in
accordance with—         where the member is the deferred choice decision-
maker, regulation 13(2) (b);           where a person other than the member is
the deferred choice decision-maker, regulation 14(2)(b);                 “
immediate choice decision ” has the meaning given in regulation  8(1) ;
“ immediate choice decision-maker ” means the person who may make an immediate
choice decision under regulation  8(2) ;           “ immediate choice member ”
means a member with remediable teacher service who, immediately before 1st
October 2023, was deceased or entitled to the present payment of a pension,
other than a deferred choice pension, under the legacy scheme or reformed
scheme;         the “ legacy scheme ”, in relation to a remedy member’s
remediable teacher service, means the relevant Chapter 1 legacy scheme  for
that service under the 1998 Regulations, and “ legacy scheme benefits ” means
benefits under that scheme;           “ member ” means an active, deferred,
deceased or pensioner, but not a pension credit member of a teachers’ pension
scheme;           “ opted-out service election ” has the meaning given in
regulation 6(1);         the “ reformed scheme ” means the pension scheme
established by the 2014 Regulations, and           “ reformed scheme benefits
” means new scheme benefits  under the reformed scheme;           “ remediable
teacher service ”, in relation to a remedy member, means the member’s
remediable service  in an employment or office that is pensionable service
under a teachers’ pension scheme;           “ remedy member ” means a deferred
choice member or an immediate choice member;           “ section 6 election ”
has the meaning given in regulation 8(1)(a);           “ section 10 election ”
has the meaning given in regulation  12(1)(a) ;           “ surviving adult ”
means—         surviving spouse;           surviving civil partner;
surviving qualifying partner;                 “ teachers’ pension scheme ”
means the legacy scheme or the reformed scheme.

2.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, a reference in PSPJOA 2022 to section
2(1) of that Act coming into force is to be understood as a reference to that
section coming into force in relation to members of a teachers’ pension
scheme.

2.3

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.3.a

is defined in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
PSPJOA 2022, and

2.3.b

is not defined differently in these Regulations,

has the meaning given in, or for the purposes of, that provision.

2.4

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.4.a

is defined in the 1998 Regulations or the 2014 Regulations (“ the relevant
Regulations ”), and

2.4.b

is not defined differently—

2.4.b.i

in these Regulations, or

2.4.b.ii

in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022,

has, in relation to the scheme established by the relevant Regulations, the
meaning given in those Regulations.

2.5

In these Regulations, a reference to a provision of the PSP(NI) Directions
2023 is a reference to that provision as amended from time to time.

2.6

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

#### Delegation


3

The scheme manager may delegate any functions of the scheme manager under
these Regulations, including this power to delegate.

### Remediable service statements


#### Requirements relating to remediable service statements


4

4.1

The scheme manager must provide a remediable service statement in respect of
each remedy member (“ M ”) in accordance with—

4.1.a

section 29 of PSPJOA 2022,

4.1.b

any Department of Finance directions made under section 29(6) of that Act, and

4.1.c

this regulation.

4.2

A remediable service statement must be provided in respect of M—

4.2.a

before the relevant date ,

4.2.b

where M is, in relation to their remediable teacher service, for the time
being—

4.2.b.i

an active member, at least once in each year ending with the anniversary of
the relevant date;

4.2.b.ii

a deferred member, within three months of receipt of a written request by the
member , and

4.2.c

where M is a deferred choice member, as soon as is reasonably practicable
following receipt of notification—

4.2.c.i

that M intends to claim benefits in relation to their remediable teacher
service, or

4.2.c.ii

that M has died.

4.3

The remediable service statement must be provided—

4.3.a

to M, or

4.3.b

where –

4.3.b.i

M is deceased, and

4.3.b.ii

the eligible decision-maker is a person other than the scheme manager,

to the person who is for the time being the eligible decision-maker determined
in accordance with the Schedule in relation to M’s remediable teacher service.

4.4

The remediable service statement must include—

4.4.a

where the scheme manager has determined that any information to be provided in
connection with M’s remediable service must be communicated in a particular
form and manner, information about that form and manner;

4.4.b

where M is an immediate choice member, information about the irrevocability of
an immediate choice decision;

4.4.c

where M is a deferred choice member, information about the circumstances in
which a deferred choice decision is revocable, and the circumstances in which
it is irrevocable.

4.5

For further provision about—

4.5.a

what a remediable service statement must include, see—

4.5.a.i

section 29(5) of PSPJOA 2022;

4.5.a.ii

direction 20(1) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023;

4.5.b

when a remediable service statement must be combined with a benefit
information statement provided under section 14 of the Public Service Pensions
Act 2014, (see direction 20(2) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023).

### Decisions about the treatment of remediable service


#### Opted-out service elections


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


5

5.1

This Chapter applies to and in respect of a member (“ M ”) with opted-out
service  in an employment or office in relation to the legacy scheme.

5.2

In this Chapter—

      “ opted-out service decision-maker ” means the person who may make an
opted-out service election under regulation  6(2) ;           “ relevant
opted-out service ” means the service referred to in paragraph (1).

##### Election in relation to relevant opted-out service


6

6.1

An election (an “opted-out service election”) may be made in relation to M’s
relevant opted-out service in accordance with this Part and section 5 of
PSPJOA 2022.

6.2

An opted-out service election may be made—

6.2.a

by M, or

6.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

6.3

Where a person (“ P ”) other than the scheme manager is the opted-out service
decision-maker, an opted-out service election may only be made after the
scheme manager determines an application which is—

6.3.a

made by or behalf of M,

6.3.b

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

6.3.c

received by the scheme manager during the period beginning on 1st October 2023
and ending at the end of 30th September 2024, and

6.3.d

accompanied by such information—

6.3.d.i

which is within P’s possession, or

6.3.d.ii

which P may reasonably be expected to obtain,

that the scheme manager may by written notice require P to provide in relation
to the decision which caused the service in question to become opted-out
service.

6.4

As soon as is reasonably practicable after receipt of an application, the
scheme manager must—

6.4.a

determine whether an opted-out service election may be made in relation to M,
and

6.4.b

notify the person who made the application whether such an opted-out service
election may be made.

6.5

Where the scheme manager is the opted-out service decision-maker, the scheme
manager must, as soon as is reasonably practicable after determining that they
are the opted-out service decision-maker, determine whether to make an opted-
out service election in relation to M.

6.6

The scheme manager must refuse an application where either of the following
conditions is not met—

6.6.a

the decision by virtue of which the member’s service became opted-out service
was communicated to the scheme manager on or after 10th March 2012;

6.6.b

the decision by virtue of which the member’s service became opted-out service
was made pursuant to a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule .

6.7

An opted-out service election to be made by—

6.7.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when the person confirms that
an opted-out service election is to be made following receipt of the
notification mentioned in paragraph (4)(b);

6.7.b

the scheme manager is made at the time determined by the scheme manager.

6.8

See section 5(2) to (4) of PSPJOA 2022 about the effect, timing and
irrevocability of an opted-out service election.

#### Immediate choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 2


7

This Chapter applies in respect of the remediable teacher service of an
immediate choice member (“ M ”).

##### Immediate choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits: general


8

8.1

A decision (an “immediate choice decision”) may be made in accordance with
this Chapter—

8.1.a

to make an election (a “section 6 election”) by virtue of section 6 of PSPJOA
2022 in relation to M’s remediable teacher service, or

8.1.b

that no section 6 election is to be made in relation to that service.

8.2

An immediate choice decision may be made—

8.2.a

by M, or

8.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

8.3

An immediate choice decision made by—

8.3.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when it is received by the
scheme manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

8.3.b

the scheme manager is made at a time determined by the scheme manager.

8.4

An immediate choice decision may only be made before the end of the section 6
election period .

8.5

An immediate choice decision is irrevocable.

8.6

An immediate choice decision to make a section 6 election takes effect as a
section 6 election (see sections 6(5) and (7), 7(1)(b) and 9 of PSPJOA 2022
about the effect of a section 6 election).

8.7

Paragraph (8) applies where—

8.7.a

immediately before 1 st  October 2023, M has remediable teacher service in the
reformed scheme (“reformed scheme service”), and

8.7.b

an immediate choice decision is made that no section 6 election is to be made
in relation to M’s remediable teacher service.

8.8

Where this paragraph applies, section 6(4) of PSPJOA 2022 does not apply in
relation to M’s reformed scheme service (and, accordingly, section 2(1) of
PSPJOA 2022 has effect in relation to M’s reformed scheme service for the
purposes mentioned in section 2(3)(b) of that Act from the time the immediate
choice decision mentioned in paragraph (7)(b) is made).

8.9

The following provisions of PSPJOA 2022 have effect in relation to an
immediate choice decision that no section 6 election is to be made as they
have effect in relation to a section 6 election—

8.9.a

section 6(7) (section 6 election has effect in respect of all remediable
service in the employment or office);

8.9.b

section 7(1)(b) (provision about when a section 6 election is to be treated as
having taken effect);

8.9.c

section 9 (provision about persons with remediable service in more than one
Chapter 1 legacy scheme).

##### Immediate choice decision: additional requirements


9

9.1

This regulation applies where the immediate choice decision-maker (“ D ”) is a
person other than the scheme manager.

9.2

An immediate choice decision may not be made unless a remediable service
statement has been provided to D in accordance with regulation 4(2)(a).

9.3

An immediate choice decision is to be treated as having been made only if D
provides any information specified in a written request from the scheme
manager that is—

9.3.a

information in D’s possession, or

9.3.b

information which D can reasonably be expected to obtain.

##### Immediate choice decision: deemed section 6 election


10

10.1

Where—

10.1.a

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M has passed,

10.1.b

no immediate choice decision has been made, and

10.1.c

it appears to the scheme manager that the monetary value of the remediable
benefits would be higher if they were treated as benefits in the reformed
scheme compared with if they were treated as benefits in the legacy scheme,

the scheme manager may treat a section 6 election as having been made in
relation to M’s remediable teacher service immediately before the end of the
section 6 election period.

10.2

In this regulation—

      “ monetary value of the remediable benefits ” means the amount that
would be crystallised in relation to the remediable benefits immediately
before they became payable in accordance with section 216 of the Finance Act
2004  as it had effect immediately before 1st October 2023;           “
remediable benefits ” means rights to benefits secured by virtue of M’s
remediable teacher service.

#### Deferred choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 3


11

This Chapter applies in respect of the remediable teacher service of a
deferred choice member (“ M ”).

##### Deferred choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits: general


12

12.1

A decision (a “deferred choice decision”) may be made—

12.1.a

to make an election (a “section 10 election”) by virtue of section 10 of
PSPJOA 2022 in relation to M’s remediable teacher service, or

12.1.b

that no section 10 election is to be made in relation to that service.

12.2

A deferred choice decision may be made—

12.2.a

by M, or

12.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

12.3

A deferred choice decision is made by—

12.3.a

a person other than the scheme manager when it is received by the scheme
manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

12.3.b

the scheme manager at a time determined by the scheme manager.

12.4

A deferred choice decision may only be made before the end of the section 10
election period.

12.5

A deferred choice decision to make a section 10 election takes effect as a
section 10 election (see sections 10(4) and (5), 11(3)(b), (4) and (7) and 13
of PSPJOA 2022 about the effect of a section 10 election).

12.6

Where the deferred choice decision is that no section 10 election is to be
made, the benefits payable to or in respect of M, so far as they are
determined by reference to M’s remediable teacher service, are legacy scheme
benefits.

12.7

The following provisions of PSPJOA 2022 have effect in relation to a decision
that no section 10 election is to be made as they have effect in relation to a
section 10 election—

12.7.a

section 10(5) (section 10 election has effect in respect of all remediable
service in the employment or office).

12.7.b

section 11(3)(b), (4) and (7) (provision about when a section 10 election
takes effect, and the effect of lapse or revocation of a section 10 election);

12.7.c

section 13 (persons with remediable service in more than one Chapter 1 legacy
scheme).

12.8

No benefits are payable under the legacy scheme in respect of M’s pensionable
service under the scheme unless—

12.8.a

a deferred choice decision is made in relation to M’s remediable teacher
service,

12.8.b

a section 10 election is deemed to have been made under regulation  15(1)  in
relation to that service, or

12.8.c

M has notified the scheme manager that they intend to claim benefits under a
teacher pension scheme in respect of their remediable teacher service and it
was not reasonably practicable for the scheme manager to provide a remediable
service statement in respect of M in accordance with regulation 4(2)(c)(i)
before the date on which such benefits become payable, or

12.8.d

M is deceased.

12.9

Where M is a person described in—

12.9.a

paragraph (8)(c), the scheme manager may, before a deferred choice decision is
made or a section 10 election is deemed to have been made in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, pay to any beneficiary such benefits (whether by
way of lump sum or otherwise) to which the beneficiary would be entitled if no
section 10 election is made, or deemed to be made, in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service;

12.9.b

paragraph (8)(d), the scheme manager may, before a deferred choice decision is
made or a section 10 election is deemed to have been made in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, pay to any beneficiary the lesser of such benefits
(whether by way of lump sum or otherwise) to which the beneficiary would be
entitled if—

12.9.b.i

a section 10 election is made, or deemed to be made, in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, or

12.9.b.ii

no section 10 election is made, or deemed to be made, in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service.

12.10

The scheme manager may not pay benefits under paragraph (9) which are
determined by reference to any remediable voluntary contribution paid by M.

12.11

Where, at the operative time—

12.11.a

the aggregate of the lump sum or pension benefits that have been paid pursuant
to paragraph (9) to a beneficiary, exceeds

12.11.b

the aggregate of the lump sum or pension benefits to which (after taking into
account the effect, if any, of paragraph (6) of this regulation or section
10(4) of PSPJOA 2022) the beneficiary is entitled under a teacher pension
scheme in respect of M’s pensionable service,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme.

12.12

Where, at the operative time the amount mentioned in paragraph (11)(a), is
less than the amount mentioned in paragraph (11)(b), the scheme manager must
pay an amount equal to the difference to the beneficiary.

12.13

In this regulation—

      “ beneficiary ” means a person who is, or is to be, entitled to receive
benefits in relation to M’s pensionable service;           “ the operative
time ” means—         if—         a deferred choice decision is made, or
a section 10 election is deemed to have been made,         in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, the time the decision or election is made;
otherwise, the end of the section 10 election period in relation to M;
“ remediable voluntary contribution ” has the meaning given in regulation 27.

##### Deferred choice decision to be made by M


13

13.1

This regulation applies where M is the deferred choice decision-maker.

13.2

A deferred choice decision may only be made during the period—

13.2.a

beginning on the date a remediable service statement is provided under
regulation 4(2)(c)(i), and

13.2.b

ending—

13.2.b.i

at the end of the day 12 months after the day the remediable service statement
mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) was provided, or

13.2.b.ii

subject to paragraph (3), at the end of such other day as the scheme manager
considers reasonable in all the circumstances.

13.3

The end of the period during which a deferred choice decision may be made must
not be more than one year before the day on which it is reasonably expected
that, if a section 10 election were made, reformed scheme benefits would
become payable to or in respect of M.

13.4

A deferred choice decision made by M may be revoked—

13.4.a

at any time before the cancellation deadline, and

13.4.b

by M communicating to the scheme manager notice of the revocation in a form
and manner determined by the scheme manager.

13.5

Where the scheme manager receives, before the cancellation deadline, notice
that M has died—

13.5.a

any deferred choice decision made by M lapses, and

13.5.b

any period that has begun (whether or not it has also ended) in accordance
with paragraph (3) is to be treated as if it had never begun (or ended).

13.6

In paragraphs (4) and (5), “ the cancellation deadline ” means—

13.6.a

the beginning of the day two weeks before the day (“the payment day”) on which
the first payment under a teacher pension scheme is due to be made in relation
to M’s remediable teacher service, or

13.6.b

such later time before the payment day as the scheme manager considers
reasonable in all the circumstances.

13.7

Where—

13.7.a

the period during which a deferred choice decision may be made (“the section
10 election period”) begins in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), and

13.7.b

no deferred choice decision has been made before the end of the section 10
election period,

the section 10 election period is treated as never having begun or ended (and,
accordingly, a new section 10 election period may begin in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a)).

##### Deferred choice decision to be made by a person other than M


14

14.1

This regulation applies where a person other than M is the deferred choice
decision-maker.

14.2

A deferred choice decision may only be made during the period—

14.2.a

beginning, where the deferred choice decision-maker is—

14.2.a.i

a person other than the scheme manager, on the date a remediable service
statement is provided under regulation 4(2)(c)(i);

14.2.a.ii

the scheme manager, on the date the scheme manager receives notice that M has
died, and

14.2.b

ending—

14.2.b.i

at the end of the day 12 months after that date,

14.2.b.ii

except where the scheme manager is the deferred choice decision-maker, at such
later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, or

14.2.b.iii

if earlier than the time which applies under paragraph (i) or (ii),
immediately after a deferred choice decision is made.

14.3

A deferred choice decision made by a person other than M is irrevocable.

##### Deferred choice decision: deemed section 10 election


15

15.1

This regulation applies where—

15.1.a

either—

15.1.a.i

the deferred choice decision-maker is a person other than M or the scheme
manager, or

15.1.a.ii

the scheme manager has paid any benefits by virtue of regulation 12(9),

15.1.b

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to M has passed,

15.1.c

no deferred choice decision has been made, and

15.1.d

it appears to the scheme manager that the monetary value of the remediable
benefits would be higher if they were treated as benefits in the reformed
scheme compared with if they were treated as benefits in the legacy scheme.

15.2

The scheme manager may treat a section 10 election as having been made in
relation to M’s remediable teacher service immediately before the end of the
section 10 election period.

15.3

In this regulation—

      “ monetary value of the remediable benefits ” means the amount that
would be crystallised in relation to the remediable benefits immediately
before they became payable in accordance with section 216 of the Finance Act
2004 as it had effect immediately before 1st October 2023;           “
remediable benefits ” means rights to benefits secured by virtue of M’s
remediable teacher service.

##### Deferred choice decision: additional requirements


16

Where the deferred choice decision-maker (“ D ”) is a person other than the
scheme manager, a deferred choice decision is to be treated as having been
made only if D provides any information specified in a written request from
the scheme manager that is—

16.a

information in D’s possession, or

16.b

information which D can reasonably be expected to obtain.

### Provision about divorce and dissolution arrangements


#### Pension credit and pension debit members


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


###### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1


17

17.1

This Chapter applies in relation to—

17.1.a

a pension credit member (“ C ”),

17.1.b

the corresponding pension debit member (“ D ”), and

17.1.c

the pension sharing order by virtue of which C became a pension credit member
in relation to D’s remediable teacher service (the “ relevant pension sharing
order ”).

17.2

In this Chapter—

      “ appropriate person ” means—         D, or           where D is
deceased, D’s personal representatives;                 “ C ” means the
pension credit member mentioned in paragraph (1)(a);           “ cash
equivalent ” means an amount calculated in accordance with regulations made
under article 27 of WRPO 1999;           “ corresponding pension debit member
” means the remedy member referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of the definition
of “pension credit member”;           “ D ” means the corresponding pension
debit member mentioned in paragraph (1)(b);           “ pension credit member
” means a member of a teacher pension scheme who has rights under the scheme—
which are attributable (directly or indirectly) to a pension credit ,
which arise by virtue of a pension sharing order with a transfer day on or
after 1st April 2015, and           the value of which was determined (to any
extent) by reference to the value of benefits payable in respect of the
remediable teacher service of a remedy member;                 “ pension
sharing order ” means the order or provision by virtue of which article 26 of
WRPO 1999 applies in relation to a pension credit member and the corresponding
pension debit member;           “ relevant pension sharing order ” has the
meaning given in paragraph (1)(c);           “ remediable relevant benefits ”
means the benefits or future benefits described in article 26(4) and (5) of
WRPO 1999 to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights;
“ remediable shareable rights ” means D’s shareable rights secured by virtue
of D’s remediable teacher service during the period beginning on 1st April
2015 and ending on the earlier of—         the day before the transfer date,
or           the last day of D’s remediable teacher service;                 “
shareable rights ” has the meaning given in article 24(2) of WRPO 1999;
“ transfer day ” means the day on which the relevant pension sharing order
takes effect;           “ valuation day ” has the meaning given in article
26(7) of WRPO 1999;           “ WRPO 1999 ” means the Welfare Reform and
Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 .

##### Pension sharing orders: information provided before 1st October 2023


###### Application and interpretation of Section 2


18

18.1

This Section applies where, before 1st October 2023, the scheme manager has
provided information for the purpose of determining amounts under article 26
of WRPO 1999 in respect of a remedy member’s remediable teacher service.

18.2

In this Section—

      “ alternative amount ” has the meaning given in regulation  19 ;
“alternative reduction amount” and “alternative reduction amounts” have the
meanings given in, respectively, regulation  22(3)  and (4);           “
alternative scheme ”, in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that
does not relate to mixed service, means—         where the initial scheme is
D’s legacy scheme, the reformed scheme;           where the initial scheme is
the reformed scheme, D’s legacy scheme;                 “ C’s pension account
” has the meaning given in regulation 21(4);           “ initial amount ”
means the total amount determined for the purposes of the relevant pension
sharing order under article 26(2) and (3) of WRPO 1999 in relation to D’s
remediable shareable rights;           “ initial reduction amount ” means the
amount by which D’s remediable relevant benefits were reduced pursuant to the
relevant pension sharing order;           “ initial scheme ”, in relation to a
relevant pension sharing order that does not have mixed service, means the
teacher pension scheme in respect of which an initial amount or an initial
reduction amount was determined;           “ remediable credit adjustment ”
has the meaning given in regulation 20(2).

18.3

For the purposes of this Section, a relevant pension sharing order relates to
mixed service if it specifies an appropriate amount in accordance with article
26(2) or (3) of WRPO 1999 by reference to the value of remediable relevant
benefits to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights
secured in both D’s legacy scheme and the reformed scheme (and, accordingly, a
relevant pension sharing order does not relate to mixed service if it
specifies an appropriate amount by reference to remediable shareable rights
secured in only one of those schemes).

###### Meaning of “alternative amount”


19

19.1

“ Alternative amount ” means—

19.1.a

in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that does not relate to mixed
service, and—

19.1.a.i

where the initial amount was determined under article 26(2) of WRPO 1999 in
relation to a percentage value to be transferred from the initial scheme, the
amount that would have been determined applying the same percentage value
under that article on the valuation day if the remediable relevant benefits
had been secured in the alternative scheme;

19.1.a.ii

where the initial amount was determined under article 26(2) of WRPO 1999 in
relation to an amount to be transferred from the initial scheme, the amount
equal to the implied percentage of the cash equivalent of the remediable
relevant benefits on the valuation day determined as if the remediable
relevant benefits had been secured in the alternative scheme;

19.1.b

in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that relates to mixed service,
the greater of—

19.1.b.i

the legacy scheme amount, and

19.1.b.ii

the reformed scheme amount.

19.2

In paragraph (1)(b)—

      “ legacy scheme amount ” means, where the initial amount was determined
in relation to—         a percentage value to be transferred from both the
legacy scheme and the reformed scheme, the amount that would have been
determined applying –         in relation to pre-taper date remediable
relevant benefits, the legacy scheme percentage value, and           in
relation to post-taper date remediable relevant benefits, the reformed scheme
percentage value,         under article 26(2) of WRPO 1999 on the valuation
day if all of the remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the legacy
scheme;           an amount to be transferred from both the legacy scheme and
the reformed scheme, the amount equal to the implied percentage of the cash
equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day determined
as if all the remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the legacy
scheme;                 “ reformed scheme amount ” means, where the initial
amount was determined under article 26(2) of WRPO 1999 in relation to—
a percentage value to be transferred from both the legacy scheme and the
reformed scheme, the amount that would have been determined applying –
in relation to pre-taper date remediable relevant benefits, the legacy scheme
percentage value, and           in relation to post-taper date remediable
relevant benefits, the reformed scheme percentage value,         under that
article on the valuation day if all of the remediable relevant benefits had
been secured in the reformed scheme;           an amount to be transferred
from both the legacy scheme and the reformed scheme, an amount equal to the
implied percentage of the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits
on the valuation day determined as if all the remediable relevant benefits had
been secured in the reformed scheme.

19.3

In this regulation—

      “ implied percentage ”, in relation to the value of benefits under a
teacher pension scheme, means the percentage that an initial amount determined
under article 26(3) of WRPO represented of the cash equivalent of the
remediable relevant benefits under that scheme on valuation day;           “
legacy scheme percentage value ” means the percentage value specified in a
relevant pension sharing order in relation to D’s legacy scheme for the
purpose of determining an amount under article 26(2) of WRPO 1999;           “
post-taper date remediable relevant benefits ” means remediable relevant
benefits to which a corresponding pension debit member (“ D ”) is entitled by
virtue of remediable shareable rights secured by virtue of D’s remediable
teacher service after D’s tapered protection closing date;           “ pre-
taper date remediable relevant benefits ” means remediable relevant benefits
to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights secured by
virtue of D’s remediable teacher service on or before D’s tapered protection
closing date;           “ reformed scheme percentage value ” means the
percentage value specified in a relevant pension sharing order in relation to
the reformed scheme for the purpose of determining an amount under article
26(2) of WRPO 1999;           “ relevant percentage value ” means—
where the relevant pension sharing order specifies a percentage value in
relation to only the initial scheme for the purpose of determining an amount
under article 26(2) of WRPO 1999, that percentage value;           otherwise,
the percentage value that is specified in relation to the alternative scheme;
“ tapered protection closing date ”, in relation to D, has the meaning given
in paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 2014 Regulations.

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: calculating a remediable credit adjustment


20

20.1

The scheme manager must determine the alternative amount in relation to C’s
pension credit—

20.1.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th September 2023, and

20.1.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

20.2

Where—

20.2.a

the alternative amount is greater than the initial amount, or

20.2.b

the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service and the
alternative amount is lower than the initial amount,

C’s pension account is subject to an adjustment (a “remediable credit
adjustment”) equal to the difference.

20.3

The scheme manager must, by the end of 30th September 2024, provide C with a
statement setting out—

20.3.a

the alternative amount,

20.3.b

any remediable credit adjustment, and

20.3.c

where regulation 21(4)(b) applies in relation to C, an explanation of the
request that may be in accordance with regulation 21(5) and the consequences
of making, or not making, such a request.

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: applying a remediable credit adjustment


21

21.1

This regulation applies where C’s pension account is subject to a remediable
credit adjustment.

21.2

The scheme manager must adjust C’s pension account by an amount equal to the
remediable credit adjustment.

21.3

An adjustment made under paragraph (2) has effect as if it had been made on
the transfer day.

21.4

“ C’s pension account ” means, where C has, in relation to the relevant
pension sharing order—

21.4.a

a pension credit in only one teacher pension scheme, C’s pension account under
that scheme;

21.4.b

a pension credit in both the legacy scheme and the reformed scheme—

21.4.b.i

the pension account identified by C in a request made in accordance with
paragraph (5), or

21.4.b.ii

if no request is made in accordance with paragraph (5), C’s pension account
under—

21.4.b.ii.aa

the legacy scheme, or

21.4.b.ii.bb

the reformed scheme if it appears to the scheme manager that would be more
beneficial to C.

21.5

A request is made in accordance with this paragraph if—

21.5.a

it is made in writing to the scheme manager for the purpose of paragraph
(4)(b)(i),

21.5.b

it is in a form determined by the scheme manager,

21.5.c

it unambiguously identifies only one of C’s pension accounts, and

21.5.d

it is received by the scheme manager by—

21.5.d.i

the end of the day 6 months after the date on which the statement required by
regulation 20(3) was provided to C, or

21.5.d.ii

the end of such later day that the scheme manager considers reasonable in all
the circumstances.

21.6

A request made in accordance with paragraph (5) is irrevocable.

21.7

Section 14(3) to (6) of PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to C as it applies in
relation to a member described in section 14(1) as if—

21.7.a

a reference to M’s remediable service in an employment or office were a
reference to C’s pension credit;

21.7.b

a reference to the effect, if any, of sections 2(1) and 6(4) were a reference
to the effect, if any, of this regulation;

21.7.c

the term “ operative time ” means the time at which the adjustment mentioned
in paragraph (2) is made (disregarding paragraph (3)).

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: recalculating D’s reduction of benefit


22

22.1

This regulation applies where D’s remediable relevant benefits have been
reduced by an initial reduction amount.

22.2

The scheme manager must determine the alternative reduction amount or, where
the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service, the alternative
reduction amounts in relation to D’s remediable relevant benefits—

22.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th September 2023, and

22.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

22.3

Where the relevant pension sharing order does not relate to mixed service, the
“alternative reduction amount” is such amount as the scheme manager considers
appropriate having regard to—

22.3.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if they had been secured in the alternative scheme,

22.3.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the relevant
pension sharing order, and

22.3.c

the provisions of articles 26 and 28 of WRPO 1999.

22.4

Where the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service, the
“alternative reduction amounts” are such amounts as the scheme manager
considers appropriate having regard to—

22.4.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if they had all been secured in—

22.4.a.i

the legacy scheme, and separately

22.4.a.ii

the reformed scheme, and

22.4.b

the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) and (c).

##### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023


###### Application and interpretation of Section 3


23

23.1

This Section applies where, on or after 1st October 2023, the scheme manager
provides information for the purpose of determining amounts under article 26
of WRPO 1999 in respect of a remedy member’s remediable teacher service.

23.2

In this Section—

      “ alternative reduction amount ” has the meaning given in regulation
25(3) ;           “ appropriate amount ” means an amount calculated for the
purposes of article 26(1) of WRPO 1999;           “ immediate choice pensioner
member ” means an immediate choice member who is, immediately before these
Regulations come into operation, a pensioner member in relation to their
remediable teacher service;           “ legacy scheme cash equivalent ” has
the meaning given in regulation  24(2)(a) ;           “ reformed scheme cash
equivalent ” has the meaning given in regulation  24(2)(b) .

###### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023: calculation of pension credits and debits


24

24.1

This regulation applies where D is—

24.1.a

a deferred choice member and no pension benefits have become payable in
relation to D’s remediable teacher service, or

24.1.b

an immediate choice pensioner member, and—

24.1.b.i

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to D has not passed, and

24.1.b.ii

no immediate choice decision has been made in relation to D’s remediable
teacher service.

24.2

For the purpose of calculating the appropriate amount, the scheme manager must
determine—

24.2.a

the cash equivalent of D’s remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if those remediable relevant benefits were in D’s legacy scheme (“the
legacy scheme cash equivalent”), and

24.2.b

the cash equivalent of those benefits on valuation day as if they were in the
reformed scheme (“the reformed scheme cash equivalent”).

24.3

For the purpose of calculating the pension credit and the pension debit, the
scheme manager must use the greater of—

24.3.a

the legacy scheme cash equivalent, or

24.3.b

the reformed scheme cash equivalent.

###### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023: recalculating D’s reduction of benefit


25

25.1

This regulation applies where D’s remediable relevant benefits are to be
reduced in relation to a pension debit calculated under regulation  24(3) .

25.2

The scheme manager must determine the alternative reduction amount in relation
to D’s remediable relevant benefits—

25.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the transfer day, and

25.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

25.3

The “alternative reduction amount” is such amount as the scheme manager
considers appropriate having regard to—

25.3.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on valuation day as if
they had been remediable relevant benefits secured in—

25.3.a.i

where the pension debit mentioned in paragraph (1) was calculated on the basis
of the legacy scheme cash equivalent, the reformed scheme;

25.3.a.ii

where the pension debit was calculated on the basis of the reformed scheme
cash equivalent, the legacy scheme;

25.3.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the relevant
pension sharing order, and

25.3.c

the provisions of articles 26 and 28 of WRPO 1999.

#### Arrangements on divorce, annulment or dissolution other than a pension sharing order


##### Arrangements other than a pension sharing order: calculating the value of pension benefits


26

26.1

This regulation applies where—

26.1.a

the value of the remediable rights of a member (“ M ”) must be determined for
the purpose of proceedings connected to M’s divorce, annulment or the
dissolution of M’s civil partnership,

26.1.b

the divorce, annulment or dissolution is to take effect—

26.1.b.i

on or after 1st October 2023, and

26.1.b.ii

before the earlier of—

26.1.b.ii.aa

a decision taking effect in relation to M’s remediable teacher service, or

26.1.b.ii.bb

the end of the relevant election period, and

26.1.c

the value of M’s remediable rights is not to be subject to a pension sharing
order.

26.2

The value of M’s remediable rights for the purpose of the proceedings is the
greater of those rights valued by the scheme manager, having consulted the
scheme actuary, as if they were—

26.2.a

secured in M’s legacy scheme, or

26.2.b

secured in the reformed scheme.

26.3

In this regulation—

      “ decision ” means an immediate choice decision or a deferred choice
decision;           “ pension sharing order ” means an order or provision
which attracts article 26 of WRPO 1999 in relation to M’s remediable rights;
“ relevant election period ” means, where M is—         a deferred choice
member, the section 10 election period in relation to M;           an
immediate choice member, the section 6 election period in relation to M;
“ remediable rights ” means the rights secured by virtue of M’s remediable
teacher service.

### Voluntary contributions


#### General


##### Interpretation of Part 5


27

In this Part—

      “ additional pension ” means rights to benefits secured by virtue of an
election under—         in relation to the legacy scheme, Schedule 2A to the
1998 Regulations;           in relation to the reformed scheme, paragraph 6 of
Schedule 2 to the 2014 Regulations;                 “ alternative reformed
scheme additional pension value ” means the value of additional pension
determined pursuant to regulation 28(1)(a)(i);           “ bought out standard
reduction ” means rights to benefits secured by virtue of an election under
paragraph 29 of Schedule 2 to the 2014 Regulations           “ compensatable
amount ” means, where an amount by way of compensation is to be paid in
relation to remediable voluntary contributions paid to secure—
additional pension under the legacy scheme, the amount determined pursuant to
regulation 28(1)(a)(ii);           reformed scheme flexibilities, the amount
determined pursuant to regulation 28(1)(b)(ii);                 “ faster
accrual ” means benefits secured by virtue of an election under paragraph 22
of Schedule 2 to the 2014 Regulations;           “ reformed scheme flexibility
” means additional pension, bought out standard reduction or faster accrual
secured under the reformed scheme;           “ relevant pension year ” has the
meaning given in direction 5(16)(c) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023;
“ remediable voluntary contribution ” means a voluntary contribution  paid
pursuant to an arrangement which commenced during the period of a remedy
member’s remediable teacher service;           “ rights to alternative legacy
scheme additional pension ” means the rights to additional pension determined
pursuant to regulation 28(1)(b)(i);           “ RVC election ” has the meaning
given in regulation 29(4)(c);           “ voluntary contribution ” means a
contribution paid by a remedy member to secure—         additional pension
under the legacy scheme, or           a reformed scheme flexibility.

##### Requirement to determine the value of flexibilities in a member’s alternative scheme


28

28.1

The scheme manager must, as soon as is practicable after 1st October 2023,
determine—

28.1.a

where a remedy member paid remediable voluntary contributions to secure
additional pension under the legacy scheme—

28.1.a.i

the equivalent value of additional pension that would have been secured under
the reformed scheme if the remediable voluntary contributions had been paid to
that scheme, and

28.1.a.ii

the amount which is equal to—

28.1.a.ii.aa

the aggregate of the remediable voluntary contributions paid to secure the
additional pension under the legacy scheme, less

28.1.a.ii.bb

an amount in respect of the value of tax relief calculated in accordance with
directions 5(5) to (9) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023;

28.1.b

where a remedy member paid remediable voluntary contributions to secure
reformed scheme flexibilities—

28.1.b.i

the rights to additional pension under the legacy scheme that would have been
secured under that scheme if the remediable voluntary contributions had been
paid to that scheme, and

28.1.b.ii

the amount which is equal to—

28.1.b.ii.aa

the aggregate of the remediable voluntary contributions paid to secure the
reformed scheme flexibility, less

28.1.b.ii.bb

an amount in respect of the value of tax relief calculated in accordance with
direction 5(5) to (9) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023.

28.2

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 5(8) of the PSP(NI)
Directions 2023, the following apply—

28.2.a

direction 5(10) (provision of explanation);

28.2.b

direction 5(11) and (12) (appeals).

28.3

In making a determination under paragraph (1)—

28.3.a

the scheme manager must consult the scheme actuary, and

28.3.b

the scheme manager must treat any remediable voluntary contribution paid to—

28.3.b.i

the reformed scheme as if it was paid to the legacy scheme in the same
relevant pension year in which it was paid to the reformed scheme;

28.3.b.ii

the legacy scheme as if it was paid to the reformed scheme in the same
relevant pension year in which it was paid to the legacy scheme.

##### Election in relation to remediable voluntary contributions


29

29.1

This regulation applies where—

29.1.a

a remedy member (“ M ”) has paid remediable voluntary contributions to secure
a reformed scheme flexibility, and

29.1.b

M is—

29.1.b.i

an immediate choice member and, at the time M made the election pursuant to
which those remediable voluntary contributions were paid, M was under 65;

29.1.b.ii

a deferred choice member.

29.2

This regulation applies separately in relation to each reformed scheme
flexibility secured by M’s remediable voluntary contributions.

29.3

The scheme manager must, as soon as is practicable after making the
determinations mentioned in regulation 28(1)(b) in relation to M, give written
notice to the relevant decision-maker.

29.4

The notice must set out—

29.4.a

the rights secured by virtue of any remediable voluntary contributions paid by
M;

29.4.b

the effect on those rights if, as the case may be—

29.4.b.i

a section 6 election or a section 10 election is made in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, or

29.4.b.ii

no section 6 election or section 10 election is made in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service;

29.4.c

the fact that the relevant decision-maker may make an election (an “RVC
election”) in accordance with paragraph (5), and the consequences of making or
not making an RVC election;

29.4.d

the form and manner by which the RVC election must be communicated to the
scheme manager;

29.4.e

the time by which the RVC election must be received by the scheme manager;

29.4.f

the fact that the RVC election is irrevocable.

29.5

The relevant decision-maker may elect that—

29.5.a

rights to alternative legacy scheme additional pension are to be conferred,

29.5.b

the scheme manager owes M or, if M is deceased, M’s personal representatives
an amount by way of compensation equal to the compensatable amount, or

29.5.c

except where—

29.5.c.i

M is an immediate choice member, or

29.5.c.ii

M is a deferred choice member who has died,

the scheme manager owes M an amount by way of compensation equal to the
compensatable amount, and that amount is to be waived by virtue of an
agreement under regulation 39(2).

29.6

An election may only be made—

29.6.a

during the period of six months beginning on the day after written notice is
given in accordance with this regulation, or

29.6.b

at such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances.

29.7

An election under paragraph (5) is irrevocable.

29.8

In this regulation—

      “ relevant decision-maker ” means—         where M is an immediate
choice member, the immediate choice decision-maker in relation to M;
where M is a deferred choice member, the deferred choice decision-maker in
relation to M.

##### Disapplication of scheme regulations where rights are determined, varied or conferred


30

Where rights, or the value of rights, are determined, varied or conferred
under Chapter 2 or 3, the following do not apply in relation to those rights—

30.a

any procedural requirement (such as the giving of a notice) imposed by the
1998 Regulations or the 2014 Regulations in connection with securing rights
that are the same as, or similar to, the varied or conferred rights;

30.b

any provision contained in the 1998 Regulations or the 2014 Regulations
limiting the amount of additional pension, bought out standard reduction or
faster accrual that may be secured in a particular period.

##### Variation of the period during which a buy-out election may be made


31

31.1

In relation to a relevant member, paragraph 29(4) of Schedule 2 to the 2014
Regulations is to be read as if for “after P enters pensionable service under
this scheme” there were substituted  “of the beginning of 1st October 2023” .

31.2

In paragraph (1), “ relevant member ” means a remedy member who, immediately
before 1 st  April 2022, was not a full protection member within the meaning
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the 2014 Regulations.

#### Immediate choice members


##### Application of Chapter 2


32

This Chapter applies in relation to the remediable voluntary contributions of
an immediate choice member (“ M ”).

##### Treatment of legacy scheme additional pension where reformed scheme benefits chosen


33

33.1

This regulation applies where M has paid remediable voluntary contributions to
secure additional pension under the legacy scheme.

33.2

When making an immediate choice decision, the immediate choice decision-maker
may elect that—

33.2.a

the value of additional pension under the legacy scheme secured by virtue of
M’s remediable voluntary contributions is to be varied so that it is
equivalent to the alternative reformed scheme additional pension value, or

33.2.b

the scheme manager must pay to M or, if M is deceased, to M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to the compensatable
amount.

33.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where a section 6 election is made (or deemed to
have been made) in relation to M’s remediable teacher service.

33.4

Where either—

33.4.a

an election is made in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), or

33.4.b

no election is made in accordance with paragraph (2),

the scheme manager must vary the value of additional pension secured under the
legacy scheme by virtue of M’s remediable voluntary contributions so that it
is equivalent to the alternative reformed scheme additional pension value;

33.5

Where an election is made in accordance with paragraph (2)(b)—

33.5.a

the scheme manager must pay to M or, if M is deceased, to M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to the compensatable
amount, and

33.5.b

the rights that would have been secured by payment of the remediable
contributions are extinguished.

##### Treatment of reformed scheme flexibilities where legacy scheme benefits take effect


34

34.1

This regulation applies where M has paid remediable voluntary contributions to
secure a reformed scheme flexibility.

34.2

This regulation applies separately in relation to each type of reformed scheme
flexibility secured by M’s remediable voluntary contributions.

34.3

Where either—

34.3.a

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M has passed and no
section 6 election is made (or deemed to have been made) in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, or

34.3.b

an immediate choice decision has been made that no section 6 election is to be
made in relation to M’s remediable teacher service,

the rights that would have been secured by the payment of the remediable
voluntary contributions are extinguished.

34.4

Where—

34.4.a

an RVC election is made in accordance with regulation 29(5)(a), or

34.4.b

the period mentioned in regulation 29(6) has expired and no RVC election has
been made,

the scheme manager must confer the rights to alternative legacy scheme
additional pension.

34.5

Where—

34.5.a

an RVC election is made under regulation 29(5)(b), or

34.5.b

at the time M made the election pursuant to which the remediable voluntary
contributions were paid, M was 65 or over,

the scheme manager owes to M or, where M is deceased, to M’s personal
representatives an amount equal to the compensatable amount.

##### Treatment of scheme flexibilities in payment


35

35.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

35.1.a

section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022 has effect in relation to the remediable teacher
service of an immediate choice member (“ M ”),

35.1.b

M paid a remediable voluntary contribution to secure a reformed scheme
flexibility.

35.2

Where this paragraph applies—

35.2.a

the rights to benefits secured by virtue of the remediable voluntary
contribution mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) are to be treated for the purposes
of these Regulations and of PSPJOA 2022 as if those rights were secured by
virtue of M’s remediable teacher service, and

35.2.b

section 2(5)(a) of PSPJOA 2022 does not apply in relation to the arrangement
by virtue of which M secured the relevant reformed scheme flexibility
mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) (and, accordingly, section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022
affects that arrangement).

35.3

Paragraph (4) applies where—

35.3.a

an immediate choice member (“ M ”) paid a remediable voluntary contribution to
secure additional pension under the legacy scheme,

35.3.b

immediately before 1st October 2023, M was a pensioner member in relation to
the legacy scheme, and

35.3.c

a section 6 election is made, or deemed to have been made, in relation to M’s
remediable service.

35.4

Where this paragraph applies, the rights secured by virtue of the remediable
voluntary contribution mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) are to be treated for the
purposes of these Regulations and of PSPJOA 2022 as if those rights were
secured by virtue of M’s remediable teacher service.

#### Deferred choice members


##### Application of Chapter 3


###### Application of Chapter 3


36

This Chapter applies in relation to the remediable voluntary contributions of
a deferred choice member (“ M ”).

##### Provision about remediable voluntary contributions on the entry into force of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022


###### Application of Section 2


37

37.1

This Section applies where M has paid remediable voluntary contributions to
secure a reformed scheme flexibility.

37.2

This Section applies separately in relation to each type of reformed scheme
flexibility secured by M’s remediable voluntary contributions.

###### Treatment of rights to reformed scheme flexibilities on the entry into force of section 2(1) of PSPJOA 2022


38

38.1

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to rights to reformed scheme flexibilities
in respect of which—

38.1.a

an RVC election is made under regulation 29(5)(a), or

38.1.b

the period mentioned in regulation 29(6) has expired and no RVC election has
been made.

38.2

Where this paragraph applies—

38.2.a

the scheme manager must confer rights to alternative legacy scheme additional
pension,

38.2.b

the rights to reformed scheme flexibilities mentioned in paragraph (1) are
extinguished, and

38.2.c

if the arrangement under which remediable voluntary contributions are paid to
secure the reformed scheme flexibilities is continuing, any remediable
voluntary contributions paid under that arrangement are to be treated as being
paid to secure rights to legacy scheme additional pension.

38.3

Paragraph (4) applies in relation to rights to reformed scheme flexibilities
in respect of which an RVC election is made under regulation 29(5)(b) or (c).

38.4

Where this paragraph applies—

38.4.a

the scheme manager owes to M or, where M is deceased, to M’s personal
representatives an amount equal to the compensatable amount except in
accordance with the terms of an agreement under regulation 39(2),

38.4.b

the rights to reformed scheme flexibilities mentioned in paragraph (3) are
extinguished, and

38.4.c

if the arrangement under which remediable voluntary contributions are paid to
secure the reformed scheme flexibilities is continuing, that arrangement is
terminated.

###### Agreement to waive payment of a compensatable amount


39

39.1

This regulation applies in relation to rights to reformed scheme flexibilities
in respect of which an RVC election is made under regulation 29(5)(c).

39.2

The scheme manager and M may agree to waive the compensatable amount otherwise
owed under regulation 38(4)(a).

39.3

Such an agreement—

39.3.a

must be in writing, and

39.3.b

must provide that the waiver ceases to apply where—

39.3.b.i

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to the remediable
teacher service has passed without a deferred choice decision having been made
in relation to that service, or

39.3.b.ii

a deferred choice decision is made in relation to that service.

39.4

The agreement must provide that, where a waiver ceases to apply by virtue of
the circumstances mentioned in paragraph (3) and the benefits payable in
relation to M’s remediable teacher service are—

39.4.a

legacy scheme benefits, the scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, to
M’s personal representatives the compensatable amount mentioned in paragraph
(2);

39.4.b

reformed scheme benefits—

39.4.b.i

the scheme manager must, having consulted the scheme actuary, confer rights
under the reformed scheme equivalent to the reformed scheme flexibilities
mentioned in paragraph (1), and

39.4.b.ii

any right to payment of the compensatable amount is extinguished.

39.5

An agreement under this regulation may not be varied.

##### Provision about remediable voluntary contributions on a deferred choice decision


###### Variation of legacy scheme additional pension where reformed scheme benefits chosen


40

40.1

This regulation applies where M has paid remediable voluntary contributions to
secure additional pension under the legacy scheme.

40.2

When making a deferred choice decision, the deferred choice decision-maker may
elect that—

40.2.a

the value of additional pension under the legacy scheme secured by virtue of
M’s remediable voluntary contributions is to be varied so that it is
equivalent to the alternative reformed scheme additional pension value, or

40.2.b

the scheme manager must pay to M or, if M is deceased, to M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to the compensatable
amount.

40.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where a section 10 election is made (or deemed to
have been made) in relation to M’s remediable teacher service.

40.4

Where either—

40.4.a

an election is made in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), or

40.4.b

no election is made in accordance with paragraph (2),

the scheme manager must vary the value of additional pension under the legacy
scheme secured by virtue of M’s remediable voluntary contributions so that it
is equivalent to the alternative reformed scheme additional pension value.

40.5

Where an election is made in accordance with paragraph (2)(b)—

40.5.a

the scheme manager must pay to M or, if M is deceased, to M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to the compensatable
amount, and

40.5.b

the rights that would have been secured by payment of the remediable voluntary
contributions are extinguished.

###### Reinstatement of reformed scheme flexibilities where reformed scheme benefits chosen


41

41.1

Paragraph (2) applies—

41.1.a

in relation to—

41.1.a.i

rights to alternative legacy scheme additional pension conferred under
regulation 38(2)(a), together with

41.1.a.ii

any rights treated as being rights to legacy scheme additional pension by
virtue of regulation 38(2)(c), and

41.1.b

where a section 10 election is made (or deemed to have been made) in relation
to M’s remediable teacher service.

41.2

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must, having consulted the
scheme actuary, vary the rights mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) so that they are
equivalent to the rights to reformed scheme flexibilities that would have been
secured had regulation 38(2) never taken effect in relation those rights.

41.3

Paragraph (4) applies—

41.3.a

in relation to rights which were extinguished under regulation 38(4)(b),

41.3.b

where payment of a compensatable amount in respect of those rights was waived
in accordance with the terms of an agreement under regulation 39(2), and

41.3.c

where a section 10 election is made (or deemed to have been made) in relation
to M’s remediable teacher service.

41.4

Where this paragraph applies—

41.4.a

the scheme manager must, having consulted the scheme actuary, confer rights
under the legacy scheme that are equivalent to the extinguished rights
mentioned in paragraph (3)(a), and

41.4.b

the right to payment of the compensatable amount is extinguished.

###### Treatment of waived compensatable amount where legacy scheme benefits take effect


42

42.1

This regulation applies where—

42.1.a

payment of a compensatable amount was waived in accordance with the terms of
an agreement under regulation 39(2),

42.1.b

the waiver under that agreement has ceased to apply, and

42.1.c

the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable teacher service are legacy
scheme benefits.

42.2

The scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives the compensatable amount.

#### Remediable arrangements to pay voluntary contributions to the legacy scheme


##### Remediable arrangements to pay voluntary contributions to secure legacy scheme additional pension


43

43.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) who is not a deceased
member.

43.2

M may elect to enter into an arrangement (a “remediable arrangement”) to pay
contributions for additional pension under the legacy scheme in accordance
with—

43.2.a

Schedule 2A of the 1998 Regulations, and

43.2.b

this regulation.

43.3

M may only enter into a remediable arrangement—

43.3.a

in respect of a period of M’s remediable teacher service,

43.3.b

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule, M would, during the period
of M’s remediable teacher service, have entered into the same or a similar
arrangement,

43.3.c

before—

43.3.c.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

43.3.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, and

43.3.d

after an application made in accordance with paragraph (4) is approved by the
scheme manager.

43.4

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

43.4.a

it is in writing in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

43.4.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purposes of—

43.4.b.i

determining the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b);

43.4.b.ii

complying with any requirement imposed by Schedule 2A of the 1998 Regulations
in connection with making an election to pay voluntary contributions for
additional pension, and

43.4.c

it is received by the scheme manager—

43.4.c.i

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the day on which a
remediable service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

43.4.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances.

43.5

The scheme manager may treat an application made in accordance with paragraph
(4) as if it were a notice under Schedule 2A to the 1998 Regulations.

43.6

Where M enters into a remediable arrangement, M owes to the scheme manager an
amount equal to—

43.6.a

the aggregate of the voluntary contributions which M would have owed had M
entered into the remediable arrangement at the time M would have entered into
the same or a similar arrangement but for a relevant breach of a non-
discrimination rule, less

43.6.b

tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with direction 12(2) to (7) of the
PSP(NI) Directions 2023.

43.7

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 12(6) of the
PSP(NI) Directions 2023, the following apply—

43.7.a

direction 12(8) (provision of explanation);

43.7.b

direction 12(9) and (10) (appeals).

### Transfers


#### General


##### Interpretation of Part 6


44

44.1

In this Part—

      “ receiving scheme ”, in relation to a remediable value, means the
scheme to which the remediable value was, or is to be, paid;           “
reformed public service pension scheme ” means—         a Chapter 1 scheme ;
a judicial scheme within the meaning of section 70(1) of PSPJOA 2022;
a local government scheme within the meaning of section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022;
“ remediable club transfer value ”, in relation to a member, means the payment
or acceptance by the scheme manager of a club transfer value under—
Chapter 2 of Part F of the 1998 Regulations;           Chapter 3 of Part 10 of
the 2014 Regulation,         so far as the club transfer value relates to the
member’s remediable rights;           “ remediable rights ”, in relation to a
member, means the member’s rights to benefits under a reformed public service
pension scheme secured by virtue of the member’s remediable service;
“ remediable transfer value ”, in relation to a member, means the payment or
acceptance by the scheme manager of a transfer value under—         Chapter 4
of Part F of the 1998 Regulations;           Chapter 2 of Part 10 of the 2014
Regulations,         so far as the transfer value relates to the member’s
remediable rights;           “ remediable value ” means a remediable club
transfer value or a remediable transfer value;           “ sending scheme ”,
in relation to a remediable value, means the scheme which paid, or is to pay,
the remediable value.

44.2

Where a provision of this Part requires the scheme manager to calculate a club
transfer value or a transfer value (including a remediable club transfer value
or a remediable transfer value) in relation to rights secured in a teacher
pension scheme, that value is to be calculated in accordance with—

44.2.a

the provisions of the teacher pension scheme which apply to the calculation of
values of that type, and

44.2.b

the guidance and tables provided by the scheme actuary for the purpose of
calculating such values that were, or are, in use on the date used for the
calculation of the value which originally secured rights under a teacher
pension scheme.

##### Transferred out remediable service statements


45

Where a remedy member has transferred any rights in respect of remediable
service out of a teacher pension scheme, the scheme manager must provide a
transferred out remediable service statement in accordance with direction 6(2)
to (4) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023 (and direction 6(4) applies as if the
reference to “any provision made by virtue of section 29(1) of PSPJOA 2022”
were a reference to regulation 4).

#### Transfers on a cash equivalent basis


##### Transfers before 1st October 2023


###### Transfers out before 1st October 2023


46

46.1

This regulation applies in relation to each member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
the scheme manager paid a remediable transfer value before 1st October 2023.

46.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must calculate the
transfer value of M’s remediable rights as if they were secured in—

46.2.a

M’s legacy scheme;

46.2.b

the reformed scheme.

46.3

The scheme manager must notify the receiving scheme of the results of the
calculation mentioned in paragraph (2).

46.4

Where—

46.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“ x ”) is greater
than

46.4.b

the amount of the remediable transfer value (“ y ”),

the scheme manager must take reasonable steps to pay the receiving scheme an
amount equal to  x  –  y .

46.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable transfer value.

46.6

Where—

46.6.a

paragraph (4) applies, and

46.6.b

the scheme manager, having taken reasonable steps, is unable to make the
payment required by that paragraph,

the scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to  x  –  y  (“the
compensatable amount”) reduced in accordance with paragraph (7).

46.7

Where, if the compensatable amount was paid immediately after the requirement
to pay it arose, the payment—

46.7.a

would be a payment described in regulation 6 of the Registered Pension Schemes
(Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009  (“ the 2009 Regulations ”) as if
regulation 6(1)(a) of those Regulations were omitted, the compensatable amount
is to be reduced by the amount equal to the income tax that would be
chargeable on it as if regulation 3(b) of the 2009 Regulations applied to it;

46.7.b

would not be a payment so described, the compensatable amount is to be reduced
by an amount equal to the income tax that would be charged on the amount if it
were taxed as pension income under Part 9 of the Income Tax (Earnings and
Pensions) Act 2003 .

###### Transfers in before 1st October 2023


47

47.1

This regulation applies in relation to each payment of a remediable transfer
value in respect of a member (“ M ”) which was accepted by the scheme manager
before 1st October 2023.

47.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must determine the
amount of pension M is entitled to count if the remediable transfer value
together with any payment accepted under paragraph (3) were applied in respect
of rights in—

47.2.a

M’s legacy scheme;

47.2.b

the reformed scheme.

47.3

Where the sending scheme was a reformed public service pension scheme, the
scheme manager may accept a payment—

47.3.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable transfer value
relates, and

47.3.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

47.4

A payment accepted under paragraph (3) is to be used for the purpose of
determining the amount of pension M is entitled to count under a teacher
pension scheme on the same terms as the remediable transfer value.

##### Transfers on or after 1st October 2023


###### Application of Section 2


48

This Section applies in respect of a deferred choice member (“ M ”) where no
pension benefits have become payable in relation to M’s remediable teacher
service.

###### Transfers out on or after 1st October 2023


49

49.1

This regulation applies to a remediable transfer value paid in relation to M
by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

49.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must calculate the
transfer value of M’s remediable rights as if those rights had been in—

49.2.a

M’s legacy scheme;

49.2.b

the reformed scheme.

49.3

The amount of the remediable transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

#### Transfers on a club basis


##### Club transfers before 1st October 2023


###### Club transfers out before 1st October 2023


50

50.1

This regulation applies in relation to each member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
the scheme manager paid a remediable club transfer value before 1st October
2023.

50.2

The scheme manager, must calculate the following amounts—

50.2.a

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a teachers’ pension scheme as if
M’s remediable rights had been secured in M’s legacy scheme;

50.2.b

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a teachers’ pension scheme as if
M’s remediable rights had been secured in the reformed scheme.

50.3

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme the result of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

50.4

Where the receiving scheme is a local government scheme (within the meaning of
section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022), and—

50.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“ x ”) is greater
than

50.4.b

the amount of the remediable transfer value (“ y ”),

the scheme manager must pay the receiving scheme an amount equal to  x  –  y .

50.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable club transfer value.

###### Club transfers in before 1st October 2023


51

51.1

This regulation applies in relation to each remediable club transfer payment
value in respect of a member (“ M ”) which was accepted by the scheme manager
before 1st October 2023.

51.2

The scheme manager may accept an adjustment in the value of a remediable club
transfer value—

51.2.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable club transfer
value relates, and

51.2.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

51.3

An adjustment accepted under paragraph (2) is to be used for the purpose of
determining the amount of pension M is entitled to count under a teacher
pension scheme on the same terms as the remediable club transfer value
mentioned in paragraph (1).

51.4

The scheme manager, must determine the amount of pension M is entitled to
count if the remediable transfer value together with any adjustment accepted
under paragraph (2) were applied in respect of rights in—

51.4.a

M’s legacy scheme;

51.4.b

the reformed scheme.

##### Club transfers on or after 1st October 2023


###### Application of Section 2


52

This Section applies in respect of a member (“ M ”) who is a deferred choice
member, and no pension benefits have become payable in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service.

###### Club transfers out on or after 1st October 2023


53

53.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable club transfer value
payment to be made by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

53.2

The scheme manager must calculate the following amounts—

53.2.a

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a teachers’ pension scheme as if
M’s remediable rights had been secured in M’s legacy scheme;

53.2.b

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a teachers’ pension scheme as if
M’s remediable rights had been secured in the reformed scheme.

53.3

The amount of the remediable club transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

53.4

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme the result of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

###### Club transfers in on or after 1st October 2023


54

54.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable club transfer value
payment which is accepted by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

54.2

The scheme manager must determine the amount of pension M is entitled to count
if the remediable club transfer value were applied in respect of rights in—

54.2.a

M’s legacy scheme;

54.2.b

the reformed scheme.

#### Variation of transfer application periods


##### Variation of transfer application periods


55

Regulations 204(2)(a) and 212(2)(a) of the 2014 Regulations apply in relation
to the relevant remediable teacher service of a relevant member as if, in each
of those provisions, for “after the day on which P enters pensionable service
under this scheme” there were substituted  “from 1st October 2023” .

#### Treatment of rights secured by virtue of a remediable value


##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 5


56

56.1

This Chapter applies in relation to the following accepted by the scheme
manager in respect of a member (“ M ”)—

56.1.a

a remediable transfer value payment, together with any payment accepted under
regulation 47(3);

56.1.b

a remediable club transfer value payment, together with any adjustment
accepted under regulation  51(2) .

56.2

In this Chapter, “ transferred in remediable rights ” means M’s remediable
rights in a teacher pension scheme secured by virtue of a remediable value
together with any payment or, as the case may be, adjustment under regulation
47(3) or 51(2).

##### Transferred in remediable rights treated as being in the legacy scheme


57

57.1

Where M’s transferred in remediable rights would, apart from this regulation,
be rights to benefits under the reformed scheme, the rights—

57.1.a

are not, and are treated as never having been, rights under the reformed
scheme, and

57.1.b

are treated as being, and as always having been, rights under M’s legacy
scheme.

57.2

Paragraph (1) has effect—

57.2.a

for the purposes of determining which teachers’ pension scheme is (or at any
time was) required to pay benefits to or in respect of M’s transferred
remediable rights, and

57.2.b

subject to regulation 58, for all other purposes.

##### Varying the value of benefits secured by virtue of transferred in remediable rights


58

58.1

Where—

58.1.a

M is a deferred choice member, and

58.1.b

M’s transferred in remediable rights are treated as rights to benefits under
the legacy scheme by virtue of regulation 57,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights M would have secured under the legacy scheme if the
rights had been transferred into that scheme.

58.2

A variation under paragraph (1) is to be treated as having taken effect when
these Regulations come into operation.

58.3

Where M is—

58.3.a

an immediate choice member, and

58.3.a.i

an immediate choice decision has been made that no section 6 election is to be
made in relation to M’s remediable teacher service, or

58.3.a.ii

the section 6 election period in relation to M has passed and no section 6
election has been made (or deemed to have been made) in relation to M’s
remediable teacher service, and

58.3.b

M’s transferred in remediable rights are treated as rights to benefits under
M’s legacy scheme by virtue of regulation 57,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights M would have secured under M’s legacy scheme if the
rights had been transferred into that scheme.

58.4

A variation under paragraph (3) is to be treated as having taken effect on the
earlier of—

58.4.a

the time that an immediate choice decision (including a deemed section 6
election) is treated as having taken effect in relation to M’s remediable
teacher service;

58.4.b

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M.

58.5

Where—

58.5.a

the benefits payable to or in respect of M’s remediable teacher service are
reformed scheme benefits by virtue of a section 6 election or a section 10
election (including, in either case, a deemed election), and

58.5.b

the benefits payable in relation to M’s transferred in remediable rights would
otherwise be legacy scheme benefits,

the scheme manager must vary the value of those rights so that they are of an
equivalent value to rights M would have secured under the reformed scheme if
the rights had been transferred into that scheme.

58.6

A variation under paragraph (5) is to be treated as having taken effect when
the election (or deemed election) is treated as having taken effect in
relation to M’s remediable teacher service.

58.7

Where the scheme manager is required to vary the value of any rights under
this regulation so that they are equivalent to rights that would have been
secured in another scheme (“ the alternative scheme ”), the scheme manager
must—

58.7.a

where the rights were secured by virtue of a remediable transfer value, first
consult the scheme actuary, and

58.7.b

calculate the varied rights as if the remediable transfer value which
originally secured rights under a teacher pension scheme were transferred into
the alternative scheme in the relevant pension year that the transfer
occurred.

58.8

In paragraph (7), “ relevant pension year ” has the meaning given by direction
4(14)(f) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023.

##### Benefits already paid in relation to transferred in remediable rights


59

59.1

Paragraph (2) applies in relation to any benefits (“the paid benefits”) that
the reformed scheme has at any time paid to a person (“ P ”) so far as—

59.1.a

they are calculated by reference to P’s or, where P is not M, M’s transferred
in remediable rights, and

59.1.b

they are benefits that, as a result of regulation  57(1)(a) , P was not
entitled to receive from the scheme.

59.2

The paid benefits are to be treated for all purposes—

59.2.a

as not having been paid to P by the reformed scheme, but

59.2.b

as having been paid to P instead by the legacy scheme.

##### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits in relation to transferred in remediable rights


60

60.1

This regulation applies—

60.1.a

where M is an immediate choice member, and

60.1.b

in relation to any benefits that have been paid to or in respect of the
transferred in remediable rights of M.

60.2

Where, at the operative time—

60.2.a

the aggregate of benefits that (after taking into account the effect, if any,
of regulation 57) have been paid under the legacy scheme to any person (“ the
beneficiary ”) in respect of M’s transferred in remediable rights, exceeds

60.2.b

the aggregate of the benefits to which (after taking into account the effect,
if any, of regulation 58(3) or (5) in relation to the rights) the beneficiary
is entitled under the scheme in respect of the rights,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme.

60.3

Where, at the operative time the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(a), is less
than the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(b), the scheme manager must pay an
amount equal to the difference to the beneficiary.

60.4

In this regulation, “ the operative time ” means—

60.4.a

if an immediate choice decision is made in relation to M’s remediable teacher
service, the time the decision is made;

60.4.b

otherwise, the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M.

### Provision about special cases


#### Ill-health retirement


##### Interpretation of Chapter 2


61

61.1

In this Chapter—

      “ alternative scheme ”, in relation to a remedy member means, where the
member’s eligibility for ill-health retirement benefits was assessed under—
the member’s legacy scheme, the reformed scheme;           the reformed
scheme, the member’s legacy scheme;                 “ill-health retirement
benefits”—         in relation to the legacy scheme, has the meaning given in
Part E of the 1998 Regulations;           in relation to the reformed scheme,
has the meaning given in regulation 3 of the 2014 Regulations;
“ ill-health retirement criteria ” means the criteria contained in a teachers’
pension scheme by which it is determined whether a person is eligible for ill-
health retirement benefits under that scheme;

61.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, an application for ill-health retirement
benefits is “ finally determined ” in relation to a teacher pension scheme
when—

61.2.a

it has been determined that the member in respect of whom the application is
made meets the ill-health retirement criteria of that scheme, or

61.2.b

it has been determined that the member does not meet the ill-health retirement
criteria of that scheme, and any route for disputing that determination has
been exhausted (including where any deadline for initiating a dispute has
passed and no dispute has been initiated).

##### Determining whether a member meets the ill-health retirement criteria in each scheme


62

62.1

Paragraph (2) applies where, during the period beginning on 1st April 2015 and
ending at the end of 30th September 2023, an application by a remedy member (“
M ”) for ill-health retirement benefits was finally determined.

62.2

The scheme manager must take reasonable steps to determine whether M would
have met the ill-health retirement criteria in M’s alternative scheme at the
“relevant time”, being—

62.2.a

where the application was initially determined—

62.2.a.i

under the reformed scheme, or

62.2.a.ii

under the legacy scheme on or before 31st March 2022,

at the time the application was first determined;

62.2.b

where the application was initially determined under the legacy scheme on or
after 31st March 2022, on 31st March 2022.

62.3

Whether a step is reasonable for the purposes of paragraph (2) depends on,
among other things, the difficulty of obtaining information or evidence
(including by interviewing or examining M) relevant to the question of whether
M would have met the ill-health retirement criteria in M’s alternative scheme
at the relevant time.

62.4

Paragraph (5) applies where a remedy member (“ M ”)—

62.4.a

makes an application for ill-health retirement benefits which—

62.4.a.i

was received by the scheme manager before 1st April 2022, and

62.4.a.ii

is finally determined on or after 1st October 2023, or

62.4.b

is a deferred member of a teacher pension scheme, who—

62.4.b.i

before 1st April 2022, left all service in an employment or office which is
capable of being pensionable service under a teachers’ pension scheme,

62.4.b.ii

makes an application for ill-health retirement benefits which is received by
the scheme manager on or after 1st April 2022, and

62.4.b.iii

the application has not been finally determined by 1st October 2023.

62.5

The scheme manager must determine—

62.5.a

whether M would have met the ill-health retirement criteria in the legacy
scheme if the application had been determined on 31st March 2022, and

62.5.b

whether M meets the ill-health retirement criteria in the reformed scheme.

##### Provisions about ill-health retirement benefits following reassessment


63

63.1

This regulation applies where—

63.1.a

a remedy member’s (“M’s”) application for ill-health retirement benefits was
determined under a teachers’ pension scheme before 1st October 2023,

63.1.b

it was determined that M did not meet the ill-health retirement criteria in
that teacher pension scheme,

63.1.c

the scheme manager determines in accordance with regulation 62 that M would
have met the ill-health retirement criteria in M’s alternative scheme at the
time the application was first determined, and

63.1.d

M is a deferred choice member.

63.2

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable following the
determination mentioned in paragraph (1)(c), send to M a written notice
setting out—

63.2.a

that an election (an “immediate IHR election”) may be made,

63.2.b

the time by which an immediate IHR election must be received by the scheme
manager, and

63.2.c

the consequences of making (or not making) an immediate IHR election.

63.3

M may make an immediate IHR election by sending notice of the election to the
scheme manager—

63.3.a

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager, and

63.3.b

so that it is received by the scheme manager no later than the end of the
period of three months beginning on the day the notice mentioned in paragraph
(2) is sent.

63.4

Where an immediate IHR election is made, M is to be treated—

63.4.a

for all purposes as if a deferred choice decision has been made—

63.4.a.i

where M’s alternative scheme is M’s legacy scheme, that no section 10 election
is to be made in relation to M’s remediable teacher service (and, accordingly,
the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable teacher service are legacy
scheme benefits);

63.4.a.ii

where M’s alternative scheme is the reformed scheme, that a section 10
election is to be made in relation to M’s remediable teacher service, and

63.4.b

as if M is entitled to the payment of ill-health retirement benefits under M’s
alternative scheme from the day after M’s last day of service in an employment
or office which is capable of being pensionable service in a teacher pension
scheme.

63.5

Where M does not leave all service in an employment or office which is capable
of being pensionable service in a teacher pension scheme before—

63.5.a

the end of the period of three months beginning on the day the immediate IHR
election is received by the scheme manager, or

63.5.b

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances,

M is to be treated as if the immediate IHR election had not been made (and no
subsequent immediate IHR election may be made).

63.6

An immediate IHR election is irrevocable.

63.7

The provisions of Chapter 1 of PSPJOA 2022 and of these Regulations about the
timing and effect of, as the case may be, a deferred choice decision and a
section 10 election apply subject to this regulation.

##### Ill-health retirement benefit payable in transitional cases


64

64.1

This regulation applies where—

64.1.a

a remedy member’s (“M’s”) application for ill-health retirement benefits was
received by the scheme manager before 1st April 2022,

64.1.b

that application is finally determined on or after 1st April 2022, and

64.1.c

M has service in an employment or office which is pensionable service under
the reformed scheme on or after 1st April 2022.

64.2

Paragraphs (3) and (4) apply where, by virtue of regulation 62 or otherwise,
it has been determined that—

64.2.a

M would have met the ill-health retirement criteria in the legacy scheme if
the application had been determined on 31st March 2022 (“the legacy scheme
condition”), and

64.2.b

M meets the ill-health retirement criteria in the reformed scheme (“the
reformed scheme condition”).

64.3

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of
the latest determination mentioned in paragraph (2), determine—

64.3.a

the amount of the ill-health retirement benefits that would have been payable
under the legacy scheme if the application had been determined under the
legacy scheme on 31st March 2022 (the “legacy scheme IHR benefits”), and

64.3.b

the amount of the ill-health retirement benefits under the reformed scheme
(the “reformed scheme IHR benefits”) calculated up to the later of—

64.3.b.i

if M is no longer in any service in an employment or office that is capable of
being pensionable service under a teacher pension scheme, the last day of such
service;

64.3.b.ii

otherwise, the date on which the determination under this sub-paragraph is
made.

64.4

Where—

64.4.a

the reformed scheme IHR benefits payable to a person (“ P ”) are less than

64.4.b

the legacy scheme IHR benefits payable to P,

an amount is payable to P under the reformed scheme which is equal to the
difference between the reformed scheme IHR benefits and the legacy scheme IHR
benefits.

64.5

Paragraph (6) applies where, by virtue of regulation 62 or otherwise, it has
been determined that—

64.5.a

M meets the legacy scheme condition, but

64.5.b

M does not meet the reformed scheme condition.

64.6

An amount is payable to a person by way of ill-health retirement benefits
under the reformed scheme which is equal to the amount that would have been
payable to that person under the legacy scheme had M’s application been
determined under that scheme on 31st March 2022.

#### Miscellaneous special cases


##### Protection of the amount of pension payable to an eligible child


65

65.1

This regulation applies where—

65.1.a

immediately before 1st October 2023, a child pension is in payment to an
eligible child (“ E ”) in respect of the remediable teacher service of a
deceased member (“ M ”),

65.1.b

there is a surviving adult (“ S ”) in relation to the deceased member,

65.1.c

E is not in the care of S, and

65.1.d

S makes an immediate choice decision which would (disregarding this
regulation) result in a decrease in the rate of child pension payable to E in
respect of M’s remediable teacher service.

65.2

Where this regulation applies—

65.2.a

E does not owe the scheme manager a liability under section 14(3) of PSPJOA
2022 in respect of the child pension, and

65.2.b

the rate of child pension continues to be the rate that was payable before the
decision was made.

##### Premature retirement


66

No annual compensation or lump sum compensation to which M is eligible under
regulation 7 of the Teachers (Compensation for Redundancy and Premature
Retirement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010  is to be treated as a pension
benefit or a lump sum benefit for the purposes of PSPJOA 2022 or these
Regulations.

##### Payment of annual allowance tax charges and provision of information


67

Where a remedy member is unable to give an effective notice to the scheme
administrator under section 237B(3) of FA 2004  in relation to an in-scope tax
year (within the meaning of direction 7(7) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023)
because the time limit in section 237BA  has passed, direction 7(2) to (6) of
the PSP(NI) Directions 2023 applies in relation to the remedy member.

### Liabilities and payment


#### Application of Part 8


##### Application of Part 8


68

This Part applies in relation to a relevant amount  owed in respect of the
remediable teacher service of a remedy member.

#### Interest, compensation and netting off


##### Interest


69

69.1

The scheme manager must calculate interest on a relevant amount described in
direction 15 of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023 in accordance with the provisions
of directions 14 and 15 which apply to that description of relevant amount.

69.2

In relation to a relevant amount not described in direction 15 of the PSP(NI)
Directions 2023, the scheme manager must determine whether interest is paid
and, if so, what rate of interest applies and how it is calculated.

69.3

The following provisions of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2) as if it were a determination under
direction 16(1) of those Directions—

69.3.a

direction 16(2) (provision of explanation);

69.3.b

direction 16(3) and (4) (appeals).

##### Indirect compensation


70

70.1

This regulation applies where—

70.1.a

pursuant to an application under regulation 71, the scheme manager determines
that an immediate choice member (“ M ”) has incurred a compensatable loss
that is a Part 4 tax loss  (a “relevant loss”), and

70.1.b

the relevant loss is a reduction of benefit under—

70.1.b.i

regulation F3 of the 1998 Regulations, or

70.1.b.ii

regulation 182 of the 2014 Regulations.

70.2

M is not to be paid an amount under section 23 of PSPJOA 2022 of compensation
in respect of the relevant loss.

70.3

Instead, the amount of benefit payable under a teacher pension scheme is to be
increased to reflect the amount of the relevant loss in such manner as
determined by the scheme manager in accordance with direction 10(2) to (4) of
the PSP(NI) Directions 2023.

##### Applications for compensation or indirect compensation


71

71.1

This regulation applies in relation to —

71.1.a

the payment of a relevant amount by way of compensation under section 23(1) of
PSPJOA 2022;

71.1.b

the increase of benefits by way of indirect compensation under regulation 70.

71.2

The relevant amount is not payable, or (as the case may be) the benefits are
not to be increased, except where—

71.2.a

an application is made in accordance with direction 18(1) and (2) of the
PSP(NI) Directions 2023,

71.2.b

the application is accompanied by such information that the scheme manager may
by written notice require the person making the application (“ P ”) to provide
in relation to the proposed compensation which is—

71.2.b.i

information within P’s possession, or

71.2.b.ii

information which P may reasonably be expected to obtain, and

71.2.c

the scheme manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 18(3) of
those Directions.

71.3

The following apply in relation to a determination in accordance with
direction 18(3) of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023—

71.3.a

direction 18(4) (provision of explanation);

71.3.b

direction 18(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Netting off


72

72.1

This regulation applies where—

72.1.a

relevant amounts owed by or to a person (“ P ”) fall to be paid at the same
time or similar times, and

72.1.b

the scheme manager has —

72.1.b.i

determined the interest (if any) that is to be paid on the relevant amounts in
accordance with regulation 69, and

72.1.b.ii

reduced the relevant amounts by tax relief amounts in accordance with
regulation 73.

72.2

The scheme manager may determine, in accordance with direction 19(2) to (5) of
the PSP (NI) Directions 2023, that the relevant amounts (and any interest on
them) must be aggregated and that the difference must be paid by P to the
scheme or (as the case may be) by the scheme to P .

72.3

The following provisions of the PSP(NI) Directions 2023 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2) as if it were a determination under
direction 19(1) of those Directions—

72.3.a

direction 19(6) (provision of explanation);

72.3.b

direction 19(7) and (8) (appeals).

#### Reduction and waiver of liabilities


##### Requirement to reduce liabilities by tax relief amounts


73

73.1

This regulation applies where—

73.1.a

a person owes a liability to pay pension contributions in relation to the
remediable teacher service of a remedy member, or

73.1.b

the scheme manager owes a liability to pay compensation in relation to such
service,

under section 15, 16 or 17 of PSPJOA 2022.

73.2

The scheme manager must reduce the liability by tax relief amounts —

73.2.a

determined in accordance with direction 4(5) to (9) of the PSP(NI) Directions
2023, and

73.2.b

before the liability is netted off in accordance with regulation 72.

73.3

The following provisions of the PSP (NI) Directions 2023, apply where the
scheme manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 4(8)—

73.3.a

direction 4(10) (provision of explanation);

73.3.b

direction 4(11) and (12) (appeals).

##### Power to reduce or waive amounts owed by a person to the scheme manager


74

74.1

The scheme manager may reduce or waive an amount owed by a person to the
scheme under

74.1.a

section 14, 15, 16 or 17 (“ the corrections provisions ”) of PSPJOA 2022, or

74.1.b

these Regulations.

74.2

When reducing or waiving an amount under paragraph (1), the scheme manager
must comply with the requirements set out in direction 4(1)(a) to (c) of the
PSPJOA Directions 2022 (and the reference in direction 4(1)(c) to “any scheme
regulations made by virtue of section 26(1)(b) of PSPJOA 2022” is to be read
as a reference to regulation 77.

##### Agreement to waive a liability owed by the scheme manager in respect of an immediate correction


75

75.1

This regulation applies where the scheme manager owes a liability to pay
compensation to a person (“ P ”) under section 16(3) of PSPJOA 2022.

75.2

The scheme manager and P may agree to waive the liability.

75.3

Such an agreement—

75.3.a

must be in writing,

75.3.b

may only be made during the period—

75.3.b.i

beginning with the day after the day on which P receives the most recent
notice sent under regulation 77(2), and

75.3.b.ii

ending at the end of the day six months after that date,

75.3.c

may be rescinded with the agreement of the scheme manager and P, and

75.3.d

in any event ceases to apply where—

75.3.d.i

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to the remediable
teacher service in respect of which the compensation is payable has passed,
and

75.3.d.ii

no section 10 election is made in relation to that service.

75.4

Where an agreement is rescinded or otherwise ceases to apply, the scheme
manager owes P the liability mentioned in paragraph (1).

#### Payment of net liabilities


##### Application of Chapter 4


76

This Chapter applies in respect of a relevant amount (together with any
interest on that relevant amount) owed after taking into account the effect,
if any, of regulations 69 to 75 (a “net liability”).

##### Payment of amounts owed to the scheme manager


77

77.1

This regulation applies where a person (“ P ”) has a net liability to the
scheme manager within the meaning of regulation 76.

77.2

The scheme manager must send notice in writing to P setting out—

77.2.a

how the net liability has been calculated,

77.2.b

an explanation of the circumstances in which the net liability may be reduced
or waived under regulation 74,

77.2.c

where the net liability has been calculated by reference to an amount by way
of compensation under section 16(3) of PSPJOA 2022, an explanation of the
agreement that may be made under regulation 75,

77.2.d

when and how the net liability must be paid, and

77.2.e

the consequences of not paying the net liability.

77.3

Where—

77.3.a

the scheme manager has sent a notice under paragraph (2), and

77.3.b

the amount of the net liability is subsequently adjusted,

the scheme manager must send another notice in writing to P under paragraph
(2).

77.4

P must pay the amount of the net liability to the scheme manager—

77.4.a

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the day after the
day on which P receives the most recent notice under paragraph (2), or

77.4.b

in accordance with an agreement under paragraph (5).

77.5

P and the scheme manager may agree that the net liability is to be paid in
part or in full—

77.5.a

by way of instalments, or

77.5.b

by way of deductions from any benefits (including a lump sum benefit) to which
P is entitled under a teacher pension scheme.

77.6

P and the scheme manager may agree to vary an agreement under paragraph (5).

77.7

Where P does not pay any amount that falls due by virtue of paragraph (4)(a)
or an agreement under paragraph (5), the scheme manager may deduct such sums
from benefits payable to P under a teacher pension scheme as seem reasonable
to the scheme manager for the purpose of discharging P’s liability.

77.8

P has no liability to pay any amount on account of the net liability until the
time for payment arises in accordance with this regulation or an agreement
under this regulation, and until that time the scheme manager has no cause of
action for the recovery of any such amount (whether for the purposes of the
Limitation (Northern Ireland) Order 1989  or otherwise).

##### Payment of amounts owed to a person


78

78.1

This regulation applies where the scheme manager owes a net liability to a
person (“ P ”).

78.2

The scheme manager must pay the amount of the net liability to P—

78.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the scheme manager determines the
amount of the net liability, or

78.2.b

where the scheme manager requires P to provide information in accordance with
paragraph (3), as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of that
information.

78.3

Before paying the amount of a net liability owed to P, the scheme manager may,
by written notice given as soon as reasonably practicable after the scheme
manager determines the amount of the net liability, require P to provide
information in relation to the payment of the net liability which is—

78.3.a

information within P’s possession, or

78.3.b

information which P may reasonably be expected to obtain.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Education on 7th
September 2023       (L.S.)   Mark Bailey   A senior officer of the Department
of Education           The Department of Finance consents to the foregoing
Regulations.       Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance
on 7th September 2023       (L.S.)   Patrick Neeson   A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

  Eligible decision-makers for deceased members

Regulations 4(3), 6(2), 8(2) and 12(2)

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this Schedule—

      “ beneficiary ” means a person who has become entitled to receive any
death benefit;           “child”, except in the term “eligible child”, means a
person under the age of 18;           “ death benefit ” means a benefit
payable under a teacher pension scheme following the death of a member of that
scheme;           “ election ” means an opted-out service election, an
immediate choice election or a deferred choice election decision;           “
eligible decision-maker ” means the person who may make—         an opted-out
service election in accordance with regulation  6(2)(b) ;           an
immediate choice election in accordance with regulation  8(2)(b) ;           a
deferred choice election decision in accordance with regulation  12(2)(b) .

1.2

In this Schedule, a reference to—

1.2.a

a beneficiary if a reference to a beneficiary of death benefits in relation to
M’s remediable teacher service;

1.2.b

an eligible child is a reference to an eligible child of M;

1.2.c

a surviving adult is a reference to a surviving adult in relation to M.

##### Sole beneficiary: an adult


2

Where a person is—

2.a

the sole beneficiary, and

2.b

an adult,

the eligible decision-maker is that person.

##### Sole beneficiary: a child


3

Where a person (“ C ”) is—

3.a

the sole beneficiary, and

3.b

a child,

the eligible decision-maker is C’s guardian.

##### Sole beneficiary: M’s estate


4

Where M’s estate is the sole beneficiary, the eligible decision-maker is M’s
personal representative.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: including a surviving adult


5

Where—

5.a

two or more adults are the only beneficiaries, and

5.b

one of those adults is a surviving adult (“ A ”),

the eligible decision-maker is A.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: including adult eligible children


6

6.1

Where—

6.1.a

two or more adults are the only beneficiaries,

6.1.b

none of those adults is a surviving adult, and

6.1.c

two or more of those adults are eligible children,

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2).

6.2

The eligible decision-maker is—

6.2.a

the person agreed upon by the adult eligible children, or

6.2.b

where no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the
scheme manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance
with these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: nominated individuals only


7

7.1

Where—

7.1.a

two or more adults (the “nominated adults”) are beneficiaries of a lump sum
death benefit, and

7.1.b

none of the following are beneficiaries—

7.1.b.i

a surviving adult, or

7.1.b.ii

an eligible child (whether or not an adult),

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2).

7.2

The eligible decision-maker is—

7.2.a

M’s personal representative;

7.2.b

where M has no personal representative, the person agreed upon by the
nominated adults;

7.2.c

where—

7.2.c.i

M has no personal representative, and

7.2.c.ii

no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the scheme
manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance with
these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager,

the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: non-adult eligible children


8

Where the only beneficiaries are children, two or more of which are eligible
children, the eligible decision-maker is—

8.a

where one person has parental responsibility for all the eligible children,
that person;

8.b

otherwise—

8.b.i

M’s personal representative, or

8.b.ii

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: nominated children only


9

Where the only beneficiaries of lump sum death benefits are two or more
children who are not eligible children, the eligible decision-maker is—

9.a

where one person has parental responsibility for all the children, that
person;

9.b

otherwise—

9.b.i

M’s personal representative, or

9.b.ii

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: one or more adults and one or more children


10

10.1

Where the beneficiaries include one or more adults and one or more children—

10.1.a

M’s personal representative is the eligible decision-maker;

10.1.b

where M has no personal representative, and—

10.1.b.i

one of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult, that surviving adult is the
eligible decision-maker;

10.1.b.ii

none of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult and—

10.1.b.ii.aa

one or more of the beneficiaries is an eligible child, or

10.1.b.ii.bb

none of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult or an eligible child,

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2).

10.2

Where sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii) applies, and—

10.2.a

all relevant children are under 18 and—

10.2.a.i

have the same guardian, the eligible-decision maker is that guardian;

10.2.a.ii

do not have the same guardian, the eligible decision-maker is the scheme
manager;

10.2.b

all relevant children are 18 or over, the eligible decision-maker is—

10.2.b.i

the person agreed upon by those relevant children, or

10.2.b.ii

no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the scheme
manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance with
these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager, the scheme manager;

10.2.c

one or more relevant children are under 18 and one or more of the relevant
children are 18 or over, the eligible decision-maker is the person agreed upon
by—

10.2.c.i

the relevant children who are 18 or over, and

10.2.c.ii

the guardian (or guardians) of the relevant children who are under 18.

10.3

In sub-paragraph (2), a relevant child is—

10.3.a

where sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii)(aa) applies, an eligible child;

10.3.b

where sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii)(bb) applies, a person who—

10.3.b.i

has never married or formed a civil partnership, and

10.3.b.ii

meets any of conditions 1, 2 or 3 as set out in regulation 137(2), (3) and (4)
of the 2014 Regulations.

##### Other cases


11

In any case not covered by paragraphs 2 to 10, the eligible decision-maker is
the scheme manager.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland)  2014 (c. 2)  (“PSPA (NI)
2014”) makes provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the
form of “ scheme regulations ” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2014), about
the establishment of public service pension schemes. The Teachers’ Pension
Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 ( S.R. 2014/310 ) (“ the 2014
Regulations ”) are the scheme regulations establishing the successor teacher
pension scheme (“ the reformed scheme ”) to the scheme established by the
Teachers’ Superannuation Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1998 ( S.R. 1998/333 )
(“ the legacy scheme ”). The 2014 Regulations provided for transitional
protection for certain cohorts of legacy scheme members. This transitional
protection was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between teacher
pension scheme members on the basis of age.

  The Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA
2022”), at Chapter 1 of Part 1, makes provision, and confers powers for scheme
regulations under PSPA (NI) 2014 to make further provision, in relation to
specified service (“ remediable service ” as defined in section 1 of PSPJOA
2022) of members who benefitted from transitional protection, and of members
who did not benefit from transitional protection only by reason of their age.
Section 27 of PSPJOA 2022 requires certain powers to make scheme regulations
to be exercised in accordance with Department of Finance directions.

  These Regulations are scheme regulations under PSPA 2014 and in accordance
with PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in a teacher
pension scheme. They are, to the extent required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022,
made in accordance with Department of Finance directions under that section
(in the form of the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation
and Information) Directions (Northern Ireland 2023.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision about when and to whom a
remediable service statement is to be provided by the scheme manager, as well
as the contents of the remediable service statement.

  Part 3 makes provision about the principal decisions that may be made in
relation to a member’s remediable service—     a     Chapter 1 makes provision
about when and how an election may be made for service in respect of which a
member opted-out of the reformed scheme to be reinstated and treated as
remediable service;         b     Chapter 2 makes provision about when and how
a decision may be made, or be deemed to have been made, about whether the
remediable service of a pensioner or deceased member (an “immediate choice
member”) is to be treated as service in the legacy scheme or in the reformed
scheme;         c     Chapter 3 makes provision similar to Chapter 2, but in
relation to the remediable service of an active or deferred member (a
“deferred choice member”).

  Part 4 makes provision about cases in which the pension rights secured by
virtue of a member’s remediable service are at issue in proceedings relating
to the member’s separation from a spouse or civil partner—     a     Chapter 1
makes provision about sharing the value of such rights under a pension sharing
order where they are subject to a pension debit under section 26 of the
Welfare Reform and Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1999. It provides, in
particular, for the calculation or, where appropriate, the re-calculation of
the value of a pension debit and a pension credit in relation to the rights;
b     Chapter 2 makes provision about the calculation of the value of rights
for the purposes of sharing those rights under an arrangement other than a
pension sharing order.

  Part 5 makes provision about lump sum voluntary contributions paid by a
member during the period of their remediable service, and periodical
contributions paid by a member under an arrangement which commenced during the
period of their remediable service, to secure further pension rights—     a
Chapter 1 makes provision about determining the value of pension rights in the
scheme other than the scheme in which they were initially secured, and
elections that may be made in relation to a member’s further pension rights;
b     Chapter 2 makes provision about the treatment of further pension rights
of immediate choice members where they elect to receive benefits in the scheme
other than the scheme in which they secured those further pension rights;
c     Chapter 3 makes similar provision to Chapter 2, but in relation to the
further pension rights of deferred choice members;         d     Chapter 4
makes provision enabling a member who did not have the opportunity to elect to
purchase rights to additional pension under the reformed scheme in relation to
remediable service to do so retrospectively.

  Part 6 makes provision about transfers in and out of a teacher pension
scheme of pension rights during the period of a member’s remediable service—
a     Chapter 1 makes provision about, among other things, the provision of a
remediable service statement to a person who has transferred out rights in
respect of remediable service and in respect of whom a remediable service
statement is not otherwise required to be provided;         b     Chapter 2
makes provision about transfers in and out of a teacher pension scheme on a
cash equivalent basis, including provision about the calculation (and, where
appropriate, the recalculation) of the value of a cash equivalent transfer
value, and the making and accepting of payments in relation to the transfer
value of rights secured by virtue of remediable service;         c     Chapter
3 makes provision similar to Chapter 2, but in relation to transfers in and
out of a teacher pension scheme on the basis of terms agreed between certain
public sector pension schemes;         d     Chapter 4 makes provision for the
variation of the period during which a member may apply for rights to be
transferred into a teacher pension scheme;         e     Chapter 5 makes
provision for–     i     transfers into reformed scheme in respect of rights
secured by virtue of remediable service to be treated as being transferred
into the legacy scheme;         ii     rights transferred into the legacy
scheme to be varied so that they reflect the value of rights in the teacher
pension scheme in respect of which rights secured by virtue of a member’s
remediable service ultimately become payable;         iii     financial
corrections of any pension benefits paid in respect of the transferred-in
rights of an immediate choice member.

  Part 7 makes provision about special cases—     a     Chapter 1 makes
provision about protecting the amount of any child pension which is already in
payment so that it will not be reduced as a result of the PSPJOA 2022 or these
Regulations;         b     Chapter 2 makes provision about the reassessment of
ill-health retirement applications which may have been treated differently if
they had been assessed in a member’s alternative teacher pension scheme;
c     Chapter 3 makes provision excluding compensation to which a member is
eligible under the Teachers (Compensation for Redundancy and Premature
Retirement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 ( S.R. 2010/136 ) from the
scope of PSPJOA 2022 and these Regulations.

  Part 8 makes provision about any amounts (“relevant amounts”) owed to or by
a person as a result of PSPJOA 2022 or these Regulations—     a     Chapter 2
makes provision for the calculation of interest on relevant amounts, for the
increase of benefits instead of the payment of a relevant amount, for the
making of an application where a person wishes to claim compensation, and for
the netting off of relevant amounts owed to and by a person;         b
Chapter 3 makes provision about the reduction and waiver of relevant amounts,
in particular a requirement for the scheme manager to reduce some relevant
amounts by tax relief amount, the discretion of the scheme manager to reduce
or waive relevant amounts owed by a person to a scheme in certain
circumstances, and the option to defer payment of certain relevant amounts
owed to a member until an election is made in relation to the member’s
remediable service;         c     Chapter 4 makes provision about when and how
relevant amounts must be paid.

  An impact assessment has not been completed for these Regulations. An
Explanatory Memorandum has been published alongside these Regulations on
http://www.legislation.gov.uk .

