Title: The Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum Fares) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-12-06
Description: These Regulations amend the Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum Fares) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (“the Taximeter Regulations”) in order to increase the maximum fare rates.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/185

## The Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum Fares) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Road Traffic And Vehicles

  Made   9th November 2023

  Coming into operation   5th December 2023

      The Department for Infrastructure , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 16(1), 18(5), and 56(2) of the
Taxis Act (Northern Ireland) 2008  and now vested in it .           In
accordance with section 16(3) of that Act the Department has taken into
consideration recommendations made by the General Consumer Council for
Northern Ireland.

### Citation and commencement


1

These Regulations may be cited as the Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum
Fares) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come
into operation on 5th December 2023.

### Amendment of the Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum Fares) Regulations


2

2.1

The Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum Fares) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015  are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 4 (application)—

2.2.a

at the beginning of paragraph (2), omit “Subject to paragraph (3),”; and

2.2.b

omit paragraph (3).

2.3

In regulation 11 (condition of taximeter and device)—

2.3.a

in paragraph (3)—

2.3.a.i

for “24th November 2021 to 31st May 2022” substitute  “5th December 2023 to
31st May 2024” ; and

2.3.a.ii

for “regulation (4)” substitute  “regulation 4” ; and

2.3.b

in paragraph (4)—

2.3.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “or” ; and

2.3.b.ii

omit sub-paragraph (b).

2.4

For Part 1 of the Schedule, substitute the Part set out in the Schedule to
these Regulations.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on
9th November 2023         Chris Hughes   A senior officer of the Department
for Infrastructure

Regulation 2(4)

###### Maximum Fares (amended figures to be supplied)


          Column (1)       Fare Title         Column (2)       Day/Time
Column (3)       Calculation of Fare         Column (4)       Maximum fare
Rate 1 Monday-Friday 06.00-20.00 except on the specified days listed in Part 2
For the first 791.9 yards or part thereof or for the first 3 minutes and 13
seconds or part thereof.       For every subsequent 189 yards or part thereof,
or 46 seconds or part thereof.     £3.20 £0.20 Rate 2 Monday-Thursday
20.00-06.00 except on the specified days listed in Part 2     For the first
800.5 yards or part thereof or for the first 3 minutes and 14 seconds or part
thereof.       For every subsequent 173.3 yards or part thereof, or 42 seconds
or part thereof.     £4.00 £0.20 Rate 3 Friday 20.00-Monday 06.00 and all day
on the specified days listed in Part 2 (20.00 on the preceding day to 06.00 on
the following day)     For the first 810 yards or part thereof or for the
first 3 minutes and 16 seconds or part thereof.       For every subsequent
173.3 yards or part thereof, or 42 seconds or part thereof.     £5.00 £0.20
Rate 4 Notwithstanding the provisions in Column (2) of Rates 1 to 3, 24 th
December 14.00-27 th  December 06.00 and 31 st  December 20.00-1 st  January
24.00     For the first 822.1 yards or part thereof or for the first 2 minutes
and 58 seconds or part thereof.       For every subsequent 97.1 yards or part
thereof, or 21 seconds or part thereof.     £5.80 £0.20

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Taxis (Taximeters, Devices and Maximum Fares)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (“ the Taximeter Regulations ”) in order
to increase the maximum fare rates.

  The Regulations will permit a taxi to be operated without a sealed taximeter
between 5th December 2023 and 31st May 2024 in the following circumstances and
on the condition that an application for the inspection, testing and sealing
of the taximeter has been made in accordance with the Taximeter Regulations—
a     the seal has been broken to facilitate the calibration of taximeter fare
rates; or         b     a new taximeter has been fitted and has not yet been
inspected, tested and sealed in accordance with the Taximeter Regulations.

  The Regulations also make minor amendments to remove provisions that are no
longer required.

  An Explanatory Memorandum has been produced and is available from Safe and
Accessible Travel Division, Department for Infrastructure, Clarence Court,
10-18 Adelaide Street, Town Parks, Belfast BT2 8GB or online alongside this
Regulation at   http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr

