Title: The Amendments of the Law (Resolution of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited) Order 2023
Date: 2023-11-09
Description: The Order is made for the purpose of enabling Part 1 of the Banking Act 2009 to be used effectively in connection with the sale of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited to a private sector purchaser.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/319

## The Amendments of the Law (Resolution of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited) Order 2023

    Banks And Banking

Approved by both Houses of Parliament

  Made   at 7.36 a.m. on 13th March 2023

  Coming into force   at 8.00 a.m. on 13th March 2023

  Laid before Parliamentat 3.30 p.m. on 13th March 2023

      This Order is made in exercise of the powers conferred by section 75 of
the Banking Act 2009 .       This Order is made for the purpose of enabling
the powers under Part 1 of that Act to be used effectively in connection with
the sale of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited to a private sector purchaser (HSBC
UK Bank plc).       In accordance with section 75(1) of that Act, the Treasury
have had regard to the special resolution objectives.       In accordance with
section 75(8) of that Act, the Treasury think it necessary to make this Order
without a draft of it having been approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.           Accordingly, the Treasury make the following Order.

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Amendments of the Law (Resolution of Silicon
Valley Bank UK Limited) Order 2023.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 13th March 2023 at 8.00 a.m.

1.3

This Order extends to the United Kingdom.

1.4

In this Order—

“ FSMA ” means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ;   “ group ” has
the meaning given by section 421 of FSMA;   ... “ HSBC UK Bank plc ” means the
company   incorporated on 23rd December 2015 with   the company registered
number 09928412; “ Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited ” means the company
incorporated on 3rd April 2020 with   the company registered number 12546585;
“ undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161 of the Companies Act
2006.

### Modification of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Excluded Activities and Prohibitions) Order 2014

2

2.1

Article 14(4) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Excluded
Activities and Prohibitions) Order 2014  (prohibitions: financial institution
exposures) is to have effect with the modification set out in paragraph (2) in
relation to exposures incurred by HSBC UK Bank plc where Silicon Valley Bank
UK Limited is the relevant financial institution.

2.2

Paragraph (b)(i) is to be read as if the words “conducted on arm’s length
terms” were omitted.

### Modification of the FCA’s and PRA’s rule-making powers

3

3.1

Sections 137A(1), 137G(1) and 192XA(1) of FSMA  (the FCA’s general rules, the
PRA’s general rules and PRA rules applying to holding companies) have effect
as if modified by inserting at the end of   each provision —

or for the purposes of, to facilitate, or in consequence of, the Silicon
Valley Bank UK Limited Mandatory Reduction and Share Transfer Instrument 2023.

.

3.2

Section 138A of FSMA  (modification or waiver of rules) is modified so it
also  applies in relation to    HSBC UK Bank plc and any undertaking in its
group —

3.2.a

in the absence of an application by    HSBC UK Bank plc or the relevant
undertaking in its group ;

3.2.b

without any requirement for consent by    HSBC UK Bank plc or the relevant
undertaking in its group ;

3.2.c

without the requirement that the regulator be satisfied about the matters
referred to in subsection (4); and

3.2.d

subject instead to the condition that it appears to the regulator that
modification or waiver (as the case may be) is necessary for the purposes of,
to facilitate, or in consequence of, the  Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited
Mandatory Reduction and Share Transfer Instrument 2023.

### Modification of the FCA’s and PRA’s duties to consult on rule changes

4

4.1

Sections 138I(1)(b) and (2) to (5), 138J(1)(b) and (2) to (5), 138K, 144D and
144E(6) of FSMA  (consultation by the FCA and PRA) do not apply in relation to
rules made by the FCA or the PRA (as the case may be) if the rules are for the
purposes of, to facilitate, or in consequence of, the Silicon Valley Bank UK
Limited Mandatory Reduction and Share Transfer Instrument 2023.

4.2

Section 139A(5) of FSMA  (power of the FCA to give guidance) has effect as if
modified by inserting after “(consultation)”—

as modified by article 4(1) of the Amendments of the Law (Resolution of
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited) Order 2023

.

      Amanda Solloway   Andrew Stephenson   Two of the Lords Commissioners of
His Majesty’s Treasury     At 7.36 a.m. on 13th March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  The Order is made for the purpose of enabling Part 1 of the Banking Act 2009
to be used effectively in connection with the sale of Silicon Valley Bank UK
Limited to a private sector purchaser.

  Article 2 modifies the application of Article 14(4) of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Excluded Activities and Prohibitions) Order
2014 ( S.I. 2014/2080 ) so that the requirement for transactions to take place
at arms-length is removed.

  Article 3 modifies certain rule-making powers in the Financial Services and
Markets Act  2000 (c. 8)  so that they are exercisable by the Prudential
Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority in connection with
the Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited Mandatory Reduction and Share Transfer
Instrument 2023 (“the transfer instrument”).

  Article 4 modifies certain duties of the FCA and the PRA to consult on rule
changes, where the rules relate to the transfer instrument.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument, as no,
or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is
foreseen.

