Title: The Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-01
Description: The Public Service Pensions Act 2013 (c. 25) (“PSPA 2013”) makes provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “scheme regulations” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2013), about the establishment of public service pension schemes. The Police Pensions Regulations 2015 (S.I. 2015/445) (“the 2015 Regulations”) are the scheme regulations establishing the successor police pension scheme (“the reformed scheme”) to the schemes established by the Police Pensions Regulations 1987 (S.I. 1987/257) and the Police Pensions Regulations 2006 (S. I. 2006/3415) (“the legacy schemes”). The 2015 Regulations provided for transitional protection for certain cohorts of legacy scheme members. Transitional protection of this sort was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate between legacy scheme members on the basis of age.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/831

## The Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations 2023

    PUBLIC SERVICE PENSIONS, ENGLAND AND WALES

  Made   at 10.20 a.m. on 19th July 2023

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.50 p.m. on 19th July 2023

  Coming into force   1st October 2023

       The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(g), 2(1) (together with paragraph
7(a) of Schedule 2) and 3(1), (2)(a) (together with paragraph 13 of Schedule
3) and (c) and (3) of the Public Service Pensions Act 2013  (“ the 2013 Act ”)
and sections 5(1) and (5), 6(1), 7(3), 8(1) and (3), 10(1), 11(1) and (5),
12(1) and (3), 18(1) to (3), (5), (6) and (8), 19(1), (4) and (5), 20(1), (4)
and (5), 21, 22(1) and (6), 24(1), 25(1) and (4), 26(1) and (2), 29(1), (7)
and (8) and 31(2) and (3) of the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022  (“PSPJOA 2022”).       In accordance with section 3(5) of the 2013
Act, these Regulations are made with the consent of the Treasury.       In
accordance with section 21(1) of the 2013 Act, the Secretary of State has
consulted the representatives of such persons as appear to the Secretary of
State likely to be affected by these Regulations.            To the extent
required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022, these Regulations are made in
accordance with Treasury directions made under that section.

### Introductory provisions

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations 2023;

1.b

come into force on 1st October 2023;

1.c

extend to England and Wales.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ PSPJOA 2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act 2022;           “ the 1987 Regulations ” means the Police Pensions
Regulations 1987 , and “ the 1987 scheme ” means the pension scheme
established by those Regulations;           “ the 2006 Regulations ” means the
Police Pensions Regulations 2006 , and “ the 2006 scheme ” means the pension
scheme established by those Regulations;           “ the 2015 Regulations ”
means the Police Pensions Regulations 2015 ;           “ the PSP Directions
2022 ” means the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and
Information) Directions 2022 ;           “ deferred choice decision ” has the
meaning given in  regulation 12 (1) ;           “ deferred choice decision-
maker ” means the person who may make a deferred choice decision under
regulation 12 (2) ;           “ deferred choice member ” means a member with
remediable police service who, immediately before 1st October 2023, was—
an active or deferred member  in relation to that service, and             is
not a pensioner member  in relation to that service;                  “
eligible child ” means, in relation to—          the 1987 scheme, a person in
respect of whom a child’s allowance is payable under that scheme;
the 2006 scheme, a person in respect of whom a child survivor’s pension is
payable under that scheme;             the reformed scheme, an eligible child
within the meaning of regulation 144 of the 2015 Regulations;
“ end of the section 10 election period ”, in relation to a deferred choice
member, means the time determined in accordance with—          where the
member is the deferred choice decision-maker,  regulation 13 (3) (b) ;
where a person other than the member is the deferred choice decision-maker,
regulation 14 (2) (b) ;                  “ immediate choice decision ” has the
meaning given in  regulation 8 (1) ;           “ immediate choice decision-
maker ” means the person who may make an immediate choice decision under
regulation 8 (2) ;           “ immediate choice member ” means a member with
remediable police service who, immediately before 1st October 2023, was—
a pensioner member in relation to that service, or             a deceased
member;                  the “ legacy scheme ”, in relation to a member, means
whichever of the 1987 scheme or the 2006 scheme is the relevant Chapter 1
legacy scheme  for the member, and “ legacy scheme benefits ” means benefits
calculated in accordance with that scheme;           “ member ” means an
active, deferred, deceased or pensioner, but not a pension credit, member of a
police pension scheme;           “ opted-out service election ” has the
meaning given in  regulation 6 (1) ;           “ police pension scheme ” means
the 1987 scheme, the 2006 scheme or the reformed scheme;           the “
reformed scheme ” means the pension scheme established by the 2015
Regulations, and “ reformed scheme benefits ” means new scheme benefits  under
the reformed scheme;           “ remediable police service ” means, in
relation to a member, the member’s remediable service  in an employment or
office that is pensionable service  under a police pension scheme;           “
remedy member ” means a deferred choice member or an immediate choice member;
“ section 6 election ” has the meaning given in  regulation 8 (1) (a) ;
“ section 10 election ” has the meaning given in  regulation 12 (1) (a) .

2.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, a reference in PSPJOA 2022 to section
2(1) of that Act coming into force is to be understood as a reference to that
section coming into force in relation to members of a police pension scheme.

2.3

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.3.a

is defined in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
PSPJOA 2022, and

2.3.b

is not defined differently in these Regulations,

has the meaning given in, or for the purposes of, that provision.

2.4

A term used in these Regulations which—

2.4.a

is defined in the 1987 Regulations, the 2006 Regulations or the 2015
Regulations (“ the relevant Regulations ”), and

2.4.b

is not defined differently—

2.4.b.i

in these Regulations, or

2.4.b.ii

in, or for the purposes of, a provision in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of PSPJOA 2022,

has, in relation to the scheme established by the relevant Regulations, the
meaning given in those Regulations.

2.5

In these Regulations, a reference to a provision of the PSP Directions 2022 is
a reference to that provision as amended from time to time.

#### Delegation

3

The scheme manager may delegate any functions of the scheme manager under
these Regulations, including this power to delegate.

### Remediable service statements

#### Requirements relating to remediable service statements

4

4.1

The scheme manager must provide a remediable service statement in respect of a
remedy member (“ M ”) in accordance with—

4.1.a

section 29 of PSPJOA 2022,

4.1.b

any Treasury directions made under section 29(6) of that Act, and

4.1.c

this regulation .

4.2

The scheme manager must provide a remediable service statement in respect of
M—

4.2.a

on or before the relevant date ,

4.2.b

where M is, in relation to their remediable police service, for the time
being—

4.2.b.i

an active member, at least once in each year ending with the anniversary of
the relevant date;

4.2.b.ii

a deferred member, within three months of receipt of a written request by the
member , and

4.2.c

where M is a deferred choice member, as soon as is reasonably practicable
following receipt of notification—

4.2.c.i

under  regulation 13 (2)  that M intends to claim benefits in relation to M’s
remediable police service, or

4.2.c.ii

that M has died.

4.3

The remediable service statement must be provided—

4.3.a

to M, or

4.3.b

where—

4.3.b.i

M is deceased, and

4.3.b.ii

the eligible decision-maker is a person other than the scheme manager,

to the person who is for the time being the eligible decision-maker in
relation to M’s remediable police service under the Schedule.

4.4

The remediable service statement must include—

4.4.a

where the scheme manager has determined that any information to be provided in
connection with M’s remediable police service must be communicated in a
particular form and manner, information about that form and manner;

4.4.b

where M is an immediate choice member, information about the irrevocability of
an immediate choice decision;

4.4.c

where M is a deferred choice member, information about the circumstances in
which a deferred choice decision is revocable, and the circumstances in which
it is irrevocable;

4.4.d

where M is a person described in regulation 55(1), information about—

4.4.d.i

how and when an election may be made under regulation 55(2),

4.4.d.ii

the consequences of making, or not making, an election under regulation 55(2),
and.

4.4.d.iii

the irrevocability of an election under regulation 55(2).

4.5

For further provision about—

4.5.a

what a remediable service statement must include, see—

4.5.a.i

section 29(5) of PSPJOA 2022;

4.5.a.ii

direction 20(1) of the PSP Directions 2022.

4.5.b

when a remediable service statement must be combined with a benefit
information statement provided under section 14 of the Public Service Pensions
Act 2013, see direction 20(2) of the PSP Directions 2022.

### Decisions about the treatment of remediable police service

#### Opted-out service elections

##### Application and interpretation of 

5

5.1

This Chapter  applies to and in respect of a member (“ M ”) with opted-out
service in an employment or office in relation to M’s legacy scheme .

5.2

In  this Chapter —

      “ opted-out service decision-maker ” means the person who may make an
opted-out service election in accordance with  regulation 6 (2) ;           “
relevant opted-out service ” means the service referred to in  paragraph (1) .

##### Election in relation to opted-out service

6

6.1

An election (an “opted-out service election”) may be made in relation to M’s
relevant opted-out service in accordance with  this Chapter  and section 5 of
PSPJOA 2022.

6.2

An opted-out service election may be made—

6.2.a

by M, or

6.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

6.3

Where a person (“ P ”) other than the scheme manager is the opted-out service
decision-maker, an opted-out service election may only be made after the
scheme manager determines an application which is—

6.3.a

made by or on behalf of M,

6.3.b

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

6.3.c

received by the scheme manager during the period of 12 months beginning with
the day on which a remediable service statement is provided in relation to M
under  regulation 4 (2) (a) , and

6.3.d

accompanied by such information—

6.3.d.i

which is information within P’s possession, or

6.3.d.ii

which P may reasonably be expected to obtain,

that the scheme manager may by written notice require P to provide in relation
to the decision which caused the service in question to become opted-out
service.

6.4

As soon as is reasonably practicable after receipt of an application, the
scheme manager must—

6.4.a

determine whether an opted-out service election may be made in relation to M,
and

6.4.b

notify the person who made the application whether such an opted-out service
election may be made.

6.5

The scheme manager must refuse an application unless both of the following
conditions are met—

6.5.a

the decision by virtue of which M’s service became opted-out service was
communicated to the scheme manager on or after 12th March 2012, and

6.5.b

the decision by virtue of which M’s service became opted-out service was made
pursuant to a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule .

6.6

But the scheme manager must not refuse an application where the decision by
virtue of which M’s service became opted-out service was communicated to the
scheme manager during the period—

6.6.a

beginning on the day six months before M would have (but for the opt-out
decision) become a member of the reformed scheme, and

6.6.b

ending at the end of 28th February 2022.

6.7

Where the scheme manager is the opted-out service decision-maker, the scheme
manager must, as soon as is reasonably practicable after determining that they
are the opted-out service decision-maker, determine whether to make an opted-
out service election in relation to M.

6.8

An opted-out service election to be made by—

6.8.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when the person confirms that
an opted-out service election is to be made following receipt of the
notification mentioned in  paragraph (4) (b) ;

6.8.b

the scheme manager is made at the time determined by the scheme manager.

6.9

See section 5(2) to (4) of PSPJOA 2022 about the effect, timing and
irrevocability of an opted-out service election.

#### Immediate choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits

##### Application and interpretation of 

7

7.1

This Chapter  applies in respect of the remediable police service of an
immediate choice member (“ M ”).

7.2

Where M has remediable police service in multiple employments or offices,
this Chapter  applies separately in relation to the remediable police service
in each employment or office.

##### Immediate choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits: general

8

8.1

A decision (“an immediate choice decision”) may be made in accordance with
this Chapter —

8.1.a

to make an election (“a section 6 election”) by virtue of section 6 of PSPJOA
2022 in relation to M’s remediable police service, or

8.1.b

that no section 6 election is to be made in relation to that service.

8.2

An immediate choice decision may be made—

8.2.a

by M, or

8.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

8.3

An immediate choice decision made by—

8.3.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when it is received by the
scheme manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

8.3.b

the scheme manager is made at a time determined by the scheme manager.

8.4

An immediate choice decision may only be made before the end of the section 6
election period .

8.5

An immediate choice decision is irrevocable.

8.6

An immediate choice decision to make a section 6 election takes effect as a
section 6 election (see sections 6(5) and (7), 7(1)(b) and 9 of PSPJOA 2022
about the effect of a section 6 election).

8.7

Paragraph (8) applies where—

8.7.a

immediately before 1st October 2023, M has remediable police service in the
reformed scheme (“reformed scheme service”), and

8.7.b

an immediate choice decision is made that no section 6 election is to be made
in relation to M’s remediable police service.

8.8

Where this paragraph applies, section 6(4) of PSPJOA 2022 does not apply in
relation to M’s reformed scheme service (and, accordingly, section 2(1) of
PSPJOA 2022 has effect in relation to M’s reformed scheme service for the
purposes mentioned in section 2(3)(b) of that Act from the time the immediate
choice decision mentioned in paragraph (7)(b) is made).

8.9

The following provisions of PSPJOA 2022 have effect in relation to an
immediate choice decision that no section 6 election is to be made as they
have effect in relation to a section 6 election—

8.9.a

section 6(7) (section 6 election has effect in respect of all remediable
service in the employment or office);

8.9.b

section 7(1)(b) (provision about when a section 6 election is to be treated as
having taken effect);

8.9.c

section 9 (provision about persons with remediable service in more than one
Chapter 1 legacy scheme).

##### Immediate choice decision: additional requirements

9

9.1

This regulation  applies where the immediate choice decision-maker (“ D ”) is
a person other than the scheme manager.

9.2

An immediate choice decision may not be made unless a remediable service
statement has been provided in accordance with  regulation 4 (2) (a) .

9.3

An immediate choice decision is to be treated as having been made only if D
provides any information specified in a written request from the scheme
manager that is—

9.3.a

information in D’s possession, or

9.3.b

information which D can reasonably be expected to obtain.

##### Immediate choice decision: deemed section 6 election

10

Where—

10.a

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M has passed,

10.b

no immediate choice decision has been communicated to the scheme manager, and

10.c

it appears to the scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, that
the value of reformed scheme benefits payable if a section 6 election is made
is greater than the value of legacy scheme benefits payable if a section 6
election is not made,

a section 6 election is treated as having been made immediately before the end
of the section 6 election period.

#### Deferred choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits

##### Application and interpretation of 

11

11.1

This Chapter  applies in respect of the remediable police service of a
deferred choice member (“ M ”).

11.2

Where M has remediable police service in multiple employments or offices,
this Chapter  applies separately in relation to the remediable police service
in each employment or office.

##### Deferred choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy scheme benefits: general

12

12.1

A decision (a “deferred choice decision”) may be made—

12.1.a

to make an election (“a section 10 election”) by virtue of section 10 of
PSPJOA 2022 in relation to M’s remediable police service, or

12.1.b

that no section 10 election is to be made in relation to that service.

12.2

A deferred choice decision may be made—

12.2.a

by M, or

12.2.b

where M is deceased, by the eligible decision-maker determined in accordance
with the Schedule.

12.3

A deferred choice decision made by—

12.3.a

a person other than the scheme manager is made when it is received by the
scheme manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager;

12.3.b

the scheme manager is made at a time determined by the scheme manager.

12.4

A deferred choice decision may only be made before the end of the section 10
election period.

12.5

A deferred choice decision to make a section 10 election takes effect as a
section 10 election (see sections 10(4) and (5), 11(3)(b), (4) and (7) and 13
of PSPJOA 2022 about the effect of a section 10 election).

12.6

Where the deferred choice decision is that no section 10 election is to be
made, the benefits payable to or in respect of M, so far as they are
determined by reference to M’s remediable police service, are legacy scheme
benefits.

12.7

The following provisions of PSPJOA 2022 have effect in relation to a decision
that no section 10 election is to be made as they have effect in relation to a
section 10 election—

12.7.a

section 10(5) (section 10 election has effect in respect of all remediable
service in the employment or office);

12.7.b

section 11(3)(b), (4) and (7) (provision about when a section 10 election
takes   effect, and the effect of lapse or revocation of a section 10
election);

12.7.c

section 13 (persons with remediable service in more than one  Chapter 1
legacy scheme).

12.8

No benefits are payable under the legacy scheme in respect of M’s pensionable
service under that scheme unless—

12.8.a

a deferred choice decision is made in relation to M’s remediable police
service,

12.8.b

a section 10 election is deemed to have been made under  regulation 16  in
relation to that service,

12.8.c

M has notified the scheme manager that they intend to claim benefits under a
police pension scheme in respect of their remediable police service and it was
not reasonably practicable for the scheme manager to provide a remediable
service statement in respect of M in accordance with  regulation 4 (2) (c) (i)
before the date on which such benefits become payable, or

12.8.d

M is deceased.

12.9

Where M is a person described in  paragraph (8) (c)  or  (d) , the scheme
manager may, before a deferred choice decision is made or a section 10
election is deemed to have been made in relation to M’s remediable police
service, pay to any person (“ the beneficiary ”) who is, or is to be, entitled
to receive benefits in relation to M’s pensionable service such benefits
(whether by way of lump sum or otherwise) to which the beneficiary would be
entitled if no section 10 election is made, or deemed to be made, in relation
to M’s remediable police service.

12.10

The scheme manager may not pay benefits under  paragraph (9)  which are
determined by reference to any voluntary contribution  paid by M pursuant to
an arrangement which commenced during the period of M’s remediable police
service.

12.11

Where, at the operative time—

12.11.a

the aggregate of the lump sum or pension benefits that have been paid pursuant
to  paragraph (9)  to a beneficiary, exceeds

12.11.b

the aggregate of the lump sum or pension benefits to which (after taking into
account the effect, if any, of  paragraph (6)  of  this regulation  or section
10(4) of PSPJOA 2022) the beneficiary is entitled under a police pension
scheme in respect of M’s pensionable service,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme
manager.

12.12

Where, at the operative time—

12.12.a

the amount mentioned in  paragraph (11) (a) , is less than

12.12.b

the amount mentioned in  paragraph (11) (b) ,

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
beneficiary.

12.13

In  this regulation , “ the operative time ” means—

12.13.a

if, in relation to M’s remediable police service—

12.13.a.i

a deferred choice decision is made, or

12.13.a.ii

a section 10 election is deemed to have been made,

the time the decision or election is made;

12.13.b

otherwise, the end of the section 10 election period in relation to M.

##### Deferred choice decision to be made by M

13

13.1

This regulation  applies where M is the deferred choice decision-maker.

13.2

M must notify the scheme manager in a form and manner determined by the scheme
manager that M intends to claim benefits in relation to M’s remediable police
service—

13.2.a

during the period between 6 and 3 months before the date M intends such
benefits to become payable, or

13.2.b

during such other period that the scheme manager considers reasonable in all
the circumstances.

13.3

A deferred choice decision may only be made during the period—

13.3.a

beginning on the date a remediable service statement is issued under
regulation 4 (2) (c) (i) , and

13.3.b

ending—

13.3.b.i

at the end of the day 12 weeks after that date,

13.3.b.ii

subject to  paragraph (5) , at the end of such other day as the scheme manager
considers reasonable in all the circumstances, or

13.3.b.iii

if earlier than the time which applies by virtue of  paragraph (i)  or  (ii) ,
at the end of the day before benefits become payable in relation to M’s
remediable police service.

13.4

The end of the period during which a deferred choice election decision may be
made must not be more than one year before the day on which it is reasonably
expected that, if a section 10 election were made, reformed scheme benefits
would become payable to or in respect of M.

13.5

A deferred choice decision made by M may be revoked—

13.5.a

up to 10 working days before benefits become payable in relation to M’s
remediable police service, and

13.5.b

by M communicating to the scheme manager notice of the revocation in a form
and manner determined by the scheme manager.

13.6

Where the scheme manager receives notice that M has died before any benefits
have become payable in relation to M’s remediable police service—

13.6.a

any deferred choice decision made by M lapses, and

13.6.b

any period that has begun (whether or not it has also ended) in accordance
with  paragraph (3)  is to be treated as never having begun (or ended).

##### Deferred choice decision to be made by a person other than M

14

14.1

This regulation  applies where a person other than M is the deferred choice
decision-maker.

14.2

A deferred choice decision may only be made during the period—

14.2.a

beginning, where the deferred choice decision-maker is—

14.2.a.i

a person other than the scheme manager, on the date a remedial service
statement is issued under  regulation 4 (2) (c) (ii) ;

14.2.a.ii

the scheme manager, on the date the scheme manager receives notice that M has
died, and

14.2.b

ending—

14.2.b.i

at the end of the day 12 weeks after that date,

14.2.b.ii

except where the scheme manager is the deferred choice decision-maker, at such
other time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, or

14.2.b.iii

if earlier than the time which applies under  paragraph (i)  or  (ii) ,
immediately after a deferred choice decision is made.

14.3

A deferred choice decision made by a person other than M is irrevocable.

##### Deferred choice decision: additional requirements

15

Where the deferred choice decision-maker (“ D ”) is a person other than the
scheme manager, a deferred choice decision is to be treated as having been
made only if D provides any information specified in a written request from
the scheme manager that is—

15.a

information in D’s possession, or

15.b

information which D can reasonably be expected to obtain.

##### Deferred choice decision: deemed section 10 election

16

Where—

16.a

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to M has passed,

16.b

no deferred choice decision has been made, and

16.c

it appears to the scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, that
the value of reformed scheme benefits payable if a section 10 election is made
is greater than the value of legacy scheme benefits payable if a section 10
election is not made,

a section 10 election is treated as having been made immediately before the
end of the section 10 election period.

### Provision about divorce and dissolution arrangements

#### Pension credit and pension debit members

##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1

###### Application and interpretation of 

17

17.1

This Chapter  applies in relation to—

17.1.a

a pension credit member (“ C ”),

17.1.b

the corresponding pension debit member (“ D ”), and

17.1.c

the pension sharing order by virtue of which C became a pension credit member
in relation to D’s remediable police service (the “ relevant pension sharing
order ”).

17.2

In  this Chapter —

... “ C ” means the pension credit member mentioned in  paragraph (1) (a) ; “
cash equivalent ” means an amount calculated in accordance with regulations
made under section 30 of WRPA 1999 ; “ corresponding pension debit member ”
means the remedy member referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of the definition of
“pension credit member”; “ D ” means the corresponding debit member mentioned
in  paragraph (1) (b) ; “ pension credit member ” means a member of a police
pension scheme who has rights under the scheme— which are attributable
(directly or indirectly) to a pension credit ; which arise by virtue of a
pension sharing order with a transfer day on or after 1st April 2015, and the
value of which was determined (to any extent) by reference to the value of
benefits payable in respect of the remediable police service of a remedy
member; “ pension sharing order ” means the order or provision by virtue of
which section 29 of WRPA 1999 applies in relation to a pension credit member
and the corresponding pension debit member; “ relevant pension sharing order ”
has the meaning given in  paragraph (1) (c) ; “ remediable relevant benefits ”
means the benefits or future benefits described in section 29(4) and (5) of
WRPA 1999 to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights; “
remediable shareable rights ” means D’s shareable rights secured by virtue of
D’s remediable police service during the period beginning on 1st April 2015
and ending on the earlier of— the day before the   transfer day , or the last
day of D’s remediable police service; “ shareable rights ” has the meaning
given in section 27(2) of WRPA 1999; “ transfer day ” means the day on which
the relevant pension sharing order takes effect; “ valuation day ” has the
meaning given in section 29(7) of WRPA 1999.

##### Pension sharing orders: information provided before 1st October 2023

###### Application and interpretation of 

18

18.1

This Section  applies where, before 1st October 2023, the scheme manager has
provided information for the purpose of determining amounts under section 29
of WRPA 1999 in respect of a remedy member’s remediable police service.

18.2

In  this Section —

       “ alternative amount ” has the meaning given in  regulation 19 ;
“ alternative reduction amount ” and “alternative reduction amounts” have the
meanings given in, respectively,  regulation 22 (3)  and  (4) ;            “
alternative scheme ”, in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that
does not relate to mixed service, means—           where the initial scheme is
D’s legacy scheme, the reformed scheme;             where the initial scheme
is the reformed scheme, D’s legacy scheme;                    “ C’s pension
account ” has the meaning given in  regulation 21 (4) ;            “ initial
amount ” means the total amount determined for the purposes of the relevant
pension sharing order under section 29(2) and (3) of WRPA 1999 in relation to
D’s remediable shareable rights;            “ initial reduction amount ” means
the amount by which D’s remediable relevant benefits were reduced pursuant to
the relevant pension sharing order;            “ initial scheme ”, in relation
to a relevant pension sharing order that does not relate to mixed service,
means the police pension scheme in respect of which an initial amount or an
initial reduction amount was determined;            “ remediable credit
adjustment ” has the meaning given in  regulation 20 (2) .

18.3

For the purposes of this Section, a relevant pension sharing order relates to
mixed service if it specifies an appropriate amount in accordance with section
29(2) or (3) of WRPA 1999 by reference to the value of remediable relevant
benefits to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights
secured in both D’s legacy scheme and the reformed scheme (and, accordingly, a
relevant pension sharing order does not relate to mixed service if it
specifies an appropriate amount by reference to remediable shareable rights
secured in only one of those schemes).

###### Meaning of “alternative amount”

19

19.1

“ Alternative amount ” means—

19.1.a

in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that does not relate to mixed
service where an initial amount was determined under—

19.1.a.i

section 29(2) of WRPA 1999 in relation to a percentage value to be transferred
from the initial scheme, the amount that would have been determined applying
the relevant percentage value under that section on the valuation day if the
remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the alternative scheme;

19.1.a.ii

section 29(3) of WRPA 1999 in relation to an amount to be transferred from the
initial scheme, the amount equal to the implied percentage of the cash
equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day determined
as if the remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the alternative
scheme;

19.1.b

in relation to a relevant pension sharing order that relates to mixed service,
the greater of—

19.1.b.i

the legacy scheme amount, and

19.1.b.ii

the reformed scheme amount.

19.2

In paragraph (1)(b)—

       “ legacy scheme amount ” means, where the initial amount was determined
in relation to—           a percentage value to be transferred from both the
legacy scheme and the reformed scheme, the amount that would have been
determined applying—           in relation to pre-taper date remediable
relevant benefits, the legacy scheme percentage value, and             in
relation to post-taper date remediable relevant benefits, the reformed scheme
percentage value,                  under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999 on the
valuation day if all of the remediable relevant benefits had been secured in
the legacy scheme;             an amount to be transferred from both the
legacy scheme and the reformed scheme, the amount equal to the implied
percentage of the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the
valuation day determined as if all the remediable relevant benefits had been
secured in the legacy scheme;                    “ reformed scheme amount ”
means, where the initial amount was determined under section 29(2) of WRPA
1999 in relation to—           a percentage value to be transferred from both
the legacy scheme and the reformed scheme, the amount that would have been
determined applying—           in relation to pre-taper date remediable
relevant benefits, the legacy scheme percentage value, and             in
relation to post-taper date remediable relevant benefits, the reformed scheme
percentage value,                  under that section on the valuation day if
all of the remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the reformed
scheme;             an amount to be transferred from both the legacy scheme
and the reformed scheme, the amount equal to the implied percentage of the
cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
determined as if all the remediable relevant benefits had been secured in the
reformed scheme.

19.3

In  this regulation —

       “ implied percentage ”, in relation to the value of benefits under a
police pension scheme, means the percentage that an initial amount determined
under section 29(3) of WRPA represented of the cash equivalent of the
remediable relevant benefits under that scheme on valuation day;            “
legacy scheme percentage value ” means the percentage value specified in a
relevant pension sharing order in relation to D’s legacy scheme for the
purpose of determining an amount under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999;
“ post-taper date remediable relevant benefits ” means remediable relevant
benefits to which a corresponding pension debit member (“ D ”) is entitled by
virtue of remediable shareable rights secured by virtue of D’s remediable
police service after D’s tapered protection closing date;            “ pre-
taper date remediable relevant benefits ” means remediable relevant benefits
to which D is entitled by virtue of remediable shareable rights secured by
virtue of D’s remediable police service on or before D’s tapered protection
closing date;            “ reformed scheme percentage value ” means the
percentage value specified in a relevant pension sharing order in relation to
the reformed scheme for the purpose of determining an amount under section
29(2) of WRPA 1999;            “ relevant percentage value ” means—
where the relevant pension sharing order specifies a percentage value in
relation to only the initial scheme for the purpose of determining an amount
under section 29(2) of WRPA 1999, that percentage value;
otherwise, the percentage value that is specified in relation to the
alternative scheme;                    “ tapered protection closing date ”, in
relation to D, has the meaning given in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the 2015
Regulations.

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: calculating a remediable credit adjustment

20

20.1

The scheme manager must determine the alternative amount in relation to C’s
pension credit—

20.1.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th September 2023, and

20.1.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

20.2

Where—

20.2.a

the alternative amount is greater than the initial amount, or

20.2.b

the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service and the
alternative amount is lower than the initial amount,

C’s pension account is subject to an adjustment (a “remediable credit
adjustment”) equal to the difference.

20.3

The scheme manager must, by the end of 30th September 2024, provide C with a
statement setting out—

20.3.a

the alternative amount,

20.3.b

any remediable credit adjustment, and

20.3.c

where  regulation 21 (4) (b)  applies in relation to C, an explanation of the
request that may be made in accordance with  regulation 21 (5)  and the
consequences of making, or not making, such a request.

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: applying a remediable credit adjustment

21

21.1

This regulation  applies where C’s pension account is subject to a remediable
credit adjustment.

21.2

The scheme manager must adjust C’s pension account by an amount equal to the
remediable credit adjustment.

21.3

An adjustment made under  paragraph (2)  has effect as if it had been made on
the transfer day.

21.4

“ C’s pension account ” means, where C has, in relation to the relevant
pension sharing order—

21.4.a

a pension credit in only one police pension scheme, C’s pension credit member
account under that scheme;

21.4.b

a pension credit in the legacy scheme and the reformed scheme—

21.4.b.i

the pension account identified by C in a request made in accordance with
paragraph (5) , or

21.4.b.ii

if no request is made in accordance with  paragraph (5) , C’s pension account
under the legacy scheme.

21.5

A request is made in accordance with  this paragraph  if—

21.5.a

it is made in writing to the scheme manager for the purpose of  paragraph (4)
(b) (i),

21.5.b

it is in a form determined by the scheme manager,

21.5.c

it unambiguously identifies only one of C’s pension accounts, and

21.5.d

it is received by the scheme manager by—

21.5.d.i

the end of the day 6 months after the date the statement required by
regulation 20 (3)  was provided to C, or

21.5.d.ii

the end of such later day that the scheme manager considers reasonable in all
the circumstances.

21.6

A request made in accordance with  paragraph (5)  is irrevocable.

21.7

Section 14(3) to (6) of PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to C as it applies in
relation to a member described in section 14(1) as if—

21.7.a

a reference to a Chapter 1 legacy scheme were a reference to the police
pension scheme in which C has a pension credit;

21.7.b

a reference to M’s remediable service in an employment or office were a
reference to C’s pension credit;

21.7.c

a reference to the effect, if any, of sections 2(1) and 6(4) were a reference
to the effect, if any, of this regulation;

21.7.d

the term “ operative time ” means the time at which the adjustment mentioned
in paragraph (2) is made (disregarding paragraph (3)).

###### Information provided before 1st October 2023: recalculating D’s reduction of benefit

22

22.1

This regulation applies where D’s remediable relevant benefits have been
reduced by an initial reduction amount.

22.2

The scheme manager must determine the alternative reduction amount or, where
the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service, the alternative
reduction amounts, in relation to D’s remediable relevant benefits—

22.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th September 2023, and

22.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

22.3

Where the relevant pension sharing order does not relate to mixed service, the
“alternative reduction amount” is such amount as the scheme manager considers
appropriate having regard to—

22.3.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if they had been secured in the alternative scheme,

22.3.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the relevant
pension sharing order, and

22.3.c

the provisions of sections 29 and 31 of WRPA 1999.

22.4

Where the relevant pension sharing order relates to mixed service, the
“alternative reduction amounts” are such amounts as the scheme manager
considers appropriate having regard to—

22.4.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if they had all been secured in—

22.4.a.i

the legacy scheme, and separately

22.4.a.ii

the reformed scheme, and

22.4.b

the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) and (c).

##### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023

###### Application and interpretation of 

23

23.1

This Section  applies where, on or after 1st October 2023, the scheme manager
provides information for the purpose of determining amounts under section 29
of WRPA 1999 in respect of a remedy member’s remediable police service.

23.2

In  this Section —

       “ alternative reduction amount ” has the meaning given in  regulation
25 (3) ;            “ appropriate amount ” means an amount calculated for the
purposes of section 29(1) of WRPA 1999;            “ immediate choice
pensioner member ” means an immediate choice member who is, immediately before
these Regulations come into force, a pensioner member in relation to their
remediable police service;            “ legacy scheme cash equivalent ” has
the meaning given in  regulation 24 (2) (a) ;            “ reformed scheme
cash equivalent ” has the meaning given in  regulation 24 (2) (b) .

###### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023: calculation of pension credits and debits

24

24.1

This regulation  applies where D is—

24.1.a

a deferred choice member and no pension benefits have become payable in
relation to D’s remediable police service, or

24.1.b

an immediate choice pensioner member, and—

24.1.b.i

the end of the section 6 election period in relation to D has not passed, and

24.1.b.ii

no immediate choice decision has been made in relation to D’s remediable
police service.

24.2

For the purpose of calculating the appropriate amount, the scheme manager must
determine—

24.2.a

the cash equivalent of D’s remediable relevant benefits on the valuation day
as if those remediable relevant benefits were in D’s legacy scheme (“the
legacy scheme cash equivalent”), and

24.2.b

the cash equivalent of those benefits on valuation day as if they were in the
reformed scheme (“the reformed scheme cash equivalent”).

24.3

For the purpose of calculating the pension credit and the pension debit, the
scheme manager must use the greater of—

24.3.a

the legacy scheme cash equivalent, or

24.3.b

the reformed scheme cash equivalent.

###### Information provided on or after 1st October 2023: recalculating D’s reduction of benefit

25

25.1

This regulation  applies where D’s remediable relevant benefits are to be
reduced in relation to a pension debit calculated under  regulation 24 (3) .

25.2

The scheme manager must determine the alternative reduction amount in relation
to D’s remediable relevant benefits—

25.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the transfer day, and

25.2.b

having consulted the scheme actuary.

25.3

The “alternative reduction amount” is such amount as the scheme manager
considers appropriate having regard to—

25.3.a

the cash equivalent of the remediable relevant benefits on valuation day as if
they had been remediable relevant benefits secured in—

25.3.a.i

where the pension debit mentioned in  paragraph (1)  was calculated on the
basis of the legacy scheme cash equivalent, the reformed scheme;

25.3.a.ii

where the pension debit was calculated on the basis of the reformed scheme
cash equivalent, the legacy scheme;

25.3.b

the percentage value or the amount to be transferred specified in the relevant
pension sharing order, and

25.3.c

the provisions of sections 29 and 31 of WRPA 1999.

#### Arrangements on divorce, annulment or dissolution other than a pension sharing order

##### Arrangements other than a pension sharing order: calculating the value of pension benefits

26

26.1

This regulation applies where—

26.1.a

the value of the remediable rights of a member (“ M ”) must be determined for
the purpose of proceedings connected to M’s divorce, annulment or the
dissolution of M’s civil partnership,

26.1.b

the divorce, annulment or dissolution is to take effect—

26.1.b.i

on or after 1st October 2023, and

26.1.b.ii

before the earlier of—

26.1.b.ii.aa

a decision taking effect in relation to M’s remediable police service, or

26.1.b.ii.bb

the end of the relevant election period, and

26.1.c

the value of M’s remediable rights is not to be subject to a pension sharing
order.

26.2

The value of M’s remediable rights for the purpose of the proceedings is the
greater of those rights valued by the scheme manager, having consulted the
scheme actuary, as if they were—

26.2.a

secured in M’s legacy scheme, or

26.2.b

secured in the reformed scheme.

26.3

In this regulation—

      “ decision ” means an immediate choice decision or a deferred choice
decision;           “ pension sharing order ” means an order or provision by
virtue of which section 29 of WRPA 1999 applies in relation to M’s remediable
rights;           “ relevant election period ” means, where M is—           a
deferred choice member, the section 10 election period in relation to M;
an immediate choice member, the section 6 election period in relation to M;
“ remediable rights ” means the rights secured by virtue of M’s remediable
police service.

### Voluntary contributions

#### Treatment of reformed scheme added pension payments

27

27.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable added pension payment made
by a remedy member ( “M” ).

27.2

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th
September 2023 and having consulted the scheme actuary, determine the
“compensatable amount”, being an amount by way of compensation which is equal
to—

27.2.a

the aggregate of all of M’s remediable added pension payments, less

27.2.b

an amount in respect of the value of tax relief in accordance with directions
5(5) to (9) of the PSP Directions 2022.

27.3

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 5(8) of the PSP
Directions 2022, the following apply—

27.3.a

direction 5(10) (provision of explanation);

27.3.b

direction 5(11) and (12) (appeals).

27.4

The scheme manager owes to M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives the compensatable amount.

27.5

The rights to benefits that would otherwise have been secured by the
remediable added pension payment are extinguished.

27.6

Where a person has received any pension benefits under the reformed scheme by
virtue of rights secured by a remediable added pension payment, that person
owes to the scheme manager an amount equal to the aggregate of all such
pension benefits.

27.7

In this regulation, “ remediable added pension payment ” means—

27.7.a

a periodical payment for added pension made under an arrangement pursuant to
Part 3 of Schedule 3 to the 2015 Regulations which commenced during the period
of M’s remediable police service;

27.7.b

a lump sum payment for added pension made pursuant to Part 4 of Schedule 3 to
the 2015 Regulations during the period of M’s remediable police service.

#### Treatment of legacy scheme added years payments

28

28.1

This regulation  applies in relation to a remediable added years payment made
by a remedy member ( “M” ).

28.2

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable after 30th
September 2023 and having consulted the scheme actuary, determine the
“compensatable amount”, being an amount by way of compensation which is equal
to—

28.2.a

the aggregate of all of M’s remediable added years payments, less

28.2.b

an amount in respect of the value of tax relief in accordance with directions
5(5) to (9) of the PSP Directions 2022.

28.3

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 5(8) of the PSP
Directions 2022, the following apply—

28.3.a

direction 5(10) (provision of explanation);

28.3.b

direction 5(11) and (12) (appeals).

28.4

Where, by virtue of a section 6 election (including a deemed section 6
election) or a section 10 election, the benefits payable in relation to M’s
remediable police service are reformed scheme benefits—

28.4.a

the scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives the compensatable amount, and

28.4.b

the rights to benefits that would otherwise have been secured by the
remediable added years payment are extinguished.

28.5

In  this regulation , a “ remediable added years payment ” means a payment to
secure increased benefits under the Police Pensions (Purchase of Increased
Benefits) Regulations 1987  or Part 5 of the 2006 Regulations which is—

28.5.a

a lump sum payment made during the period of M’s remediable police service,

28.5.b

a periodical contribution made pursuant to an arrangement which commenced
during the period of M’s remediable police service, or

28.5.c

a lump sum payment or a periodical contribution made pursuant to a remedial
arrangement under  regulation 29 .

#### Remedial arrangements to pay voluntary contributions to secure legacy scheme added years

29

29.1

This regulation applies to a remedy member (“ M ”) who—

29.1.a

is not a deceased member, and

29.1.b

was, immediately before 1st April 2022, not a full protection member of the
1987 scheme or the 2006 scheme within the meaning of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4
to the 2015 Regulations.

29.2

M may elect to enter into an arrangement (a “remediable arrangement”) to pay
voluntary contributions to M’s legacy scheme for added benefits in accordance
with—

29.2.a

where M’s legacy scheme is—

29.2.a.i

the 1987 scheme, the Police Pensions (Purchase of Increased Benefits)
Regulations 1987;

29.2.a.ii

the 2006 scheme, Part 5 of the 2006 Regulations, and

29.2.b

this regulation.

29.3

M may only enter into a remediable arrangement—

29.3.a

in respect of a period of M’s remediable police service,

29.3.b

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for a relevant breach of a non-discrimination rule, M would, during the period
of M’s remediable police service, have entered into the same or a similar
arrangement,

29.3.c

before—

29.3.c.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

29.3.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, and

29.3.d

after an application made in accordance with paragraph (4) is approved by the
scheme manager.

29.4

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

29.4.a

it is in writing in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

29.4.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purposes of—

29.4.b.i

determining the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(b);

29.4.b.ii

complying with any requirement imposed by the Police Pensions (Purchase of
Increased Benefits) Regulations 1987 or (as the case may be) Part 5 of the
2006 Regulations in connection with making an election to pay voluntary
contributions for added benefits, and

29.4.c

it is received by the scheme manager—

29.4.c.i

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the day on which a
remediable service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

29.4.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances.

29.5

Where M enters into a remediable arrangement, M owes to the scheme manager an
amount equal to—

29.5.a

the aggregate of the voluntary contributions which M would have owed had M
entered into the remediable arrangement at the time M would have entered into
the same or a similar arrangement but for a relevant breach of a non-
discrimination rule, less

29.5.b

tax relief amounts calculated in accordance with direction 12(2) to (7) of the
PSP Directions 2022.

29.6

Where a determination is made in accordance with direction 12(6) of the PSP
Directions 2022, the following apply—

29.6.a

direction 12(8) (provision of explanation);

29.6.b

direction 12(9) and (10) (appeals).

#### Disapplication of restriction on lump sum payments for reformed scheme added pension

30

Paragraph 5(6) of Schedule 3 to the 2015 Regulations does not apply in
relation to an option to make a lump sum payment for added pension that was
exercised by a remedy member during the period beginning on 1st April 2022 and
ending at the end of 31st March 2023.

### Transfers

#### General

##### Interpretation of 

31

31.1

In  this Part —

“ public service pension scheme ” means— a Chapter 1 scheme ; a judicial
scheme within the meaning of section 70(1) of PSPJOA 2022; a local government
scheme within the meaning of section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022; “ receiving scheme
”, in relation to a remediable value, means the scheme to which the remediable
value was, or is to be, paid; “ remediable club transfer value ”, in relation
to a member, means the payment or acceptance by the scheme manager of— a
transfer value payment under interchange arrangements in accordance with Part
F of the 1987 Regulations; a transfer value payment under the public sector
transfer arrangements in accordance with regulation 15 or 78 of the 2006
Regulations; a club transfer value payment under Part 11 of the 2015
Regulations, so far as the transfer value relates to the member’s remediable
rights; “ remediable rights ”, in relation to a member, means the member’s
rights to benefits under a public service pension scheme secured by virtue of
the member’s remediable service; “ remediable transfer value ”, in relation to
a member, means the payment or acceptance by the scheme manager of a transfer
value other than a remediable club transfer value under— Part F of the 1987
Regulations; regulation 15 or 78 of the 2006 Regulations; Part 11 of the 2015
Regulations, so far as the transfer value relates to the member’s remediable
rights; “ remediable value ” means, except in Chapter 4, a remediable club
transfer value or a remediable transfer value; “ sending scheme ”, in relation
to a remediable value, means the scheme which paid, or is to pay, the
remediable value.

31.2

In  this Part , the overall rights in relation to a remediable value in the
legacy scheme are—

31.2.a

where the member’s legacy scheme would have permitted the transfer in of the
entire remediable value (including, where relevant, any payment accepted under
regulation 34 (3)  or any adjustment accepted under  regulation 39 (2) ) had
the transfer taken place immediately before 1st April 2022, the rights to
legacy scheme benefits that would have been secured if the remediable value
had been transferred into that scheme;

31.2.b

otherwise, the rights to legacy scheme benefits that would have been secured
if that portion of the remediable value that the legacy scheme would have
permitted to be transferred in had been transferred into that scheme, together
with—

31.2.b.i

where the member has service in an employment or office on or after 1st April
2022 which is pensionable service under the reformed scheme (“relevant
reformed scheme service”), the rights to reformed scheme benefits if the
remaining portion of the remediable value had been transferred into that
scheme;

31.2.b.ii

where the member does not have relevant reformed scheme service, the right to
payment of an amount by way of compensation equal to the value of rights to
reformed scheme benefits if the remaining portion of the remediable value had
been transferred into that scheme.

31.3

Where a provision of  this Part  requires the scheme manager to calculate a
club transfer value or a transfer value (including a remediable club transfer
value or a remediable transfer value) in relation to rights secured in a
police pension scheme, that value is to be calculated in accordance with—

31.3.a

the provisions of the police pension scheme which apply to the calculation of
values of that type, and

31.3.b

the guidance and tables provided for the purpose of calculating such values
that were, or are, in use on the date used for the calculation of the value
which originally secured rights under a police pension scheme.

##### Transferred out remediable service statements

32

Where a remedy member has transferred any rights in respect of remediable
service out of a police pension scheme, the scheme manager must provide a
transferred out remediable service statement in accordance with direction 6(2)
to (4) of the PSP Directions 2022 (and direction 6(4) applies as if the
reference to “any provision made by virtue of section 29(1) of PSPJOA 2022”
were a reference to  regulation 4 ).

#### Transfers on a cash equivalent basis

##### Transfers before 1st October 2023

###### Transfers out before 1st October 2023

33

33.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member (“ M ”) in respect of whom the
scheme manager paid a remediable transfer value before 1st October 2023.

33.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must calculate the
transfer value of M’s remediable rights as if they were secured in—

33.2.a

M’s legacy scheme;

33.2.b

the reformed scheme.

33.3

The scheme manager must notify the receiving scheme of the results of the
calculation mentioned in paragraph (2).

33.4

Where—

33.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“ x ”) is greater
than

33.4.b

the amount of the remediable transfer value (“ y ”),

the scheme manager must take reasonable steps to pay the receiving scheme an
amount (“the remediable amount”) equal to  x - y .

33.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable transfer value.

33.6

Where—

33.6.a

paragraph (4) applies, and

33.6.b

the scheme manager, having taken reasonable steps, is unable to make the
payment required by that paragraph,

the scheme manager owes M or, where M is deceased, M’s personal
representatives an amount by way of compensation equal to  x - y  (“the
compensatable amount”) reduced in accordance with paragraph (7).

33.7

Where, if the compensatable amount was paid immediately after the requirement
to pay it arose, the payment—

33.7.a

would be a payment described in regulation 6 of the Registered Pension Schemes
(Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009  (“ the 2009 Regulations ”) as if
regulation 6(1)(a) of those Regulations were omitted, the compensatable amount
is to be reduced by the amount equal to the income tax that would be
chargeable on it as if regulation 3(b) of the 2009 Regulations applied to it;

33.7.b

would not be a payment so described, the compensatable amount is to be reduced
by an amount equal to the income tax that would be charged on the amount at
M’s marginal rate under the Income Tax Acts.

###### Transfers in before 1st October 2023

34

34.1

This regulation applies in relation to each payment of a remediable transfer
value in respect of a member (“ M ”) which was accepted by the scheme manager
before 1st October 2023.

34.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must determine M’s—

34.2.a

overall rights in relation to the remediable transfer value in the legacy
scheme;

34.2.b

benefits if the remediable transfer value, together with any payment accepted
under paragraph (3), were applied in respect of rights in the reformed scheme.

34.3

Where the sending scheme was a public service pension scheme, the scheme
manager may accept a payment—

34.3.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable transfer value
relates, and

34.3.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

34.4

A payment accepted under paragraph (3) is to be used for the purpose of
determining M’s benefits under a police pension scheme on the same terms as
the remediable transfer value.

##### Transfers on or after 1st October 2023

###### Application of Section 2

35

This Section applies in respect of a member (“ M ”) who is—

35.a

a deferred choice member, and no pension benefits have become payable in
relation to M’s remediable police service, or

35.b

an immediate choice member, and—

35.b.i

the end of the section 6 election period has not passed in relation to M, and

35.b.ii

no immediate choice decision has been made in relation to M’s remediable
police service.

###### Transfers out on or after 1st October 2023

36

36.1

This regulation applies to a remediable transfer value to be paid in relation
to M by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

36.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must calculate the
transfer value of M’s remediable rights as if those rights had been in—

36.2.a

M’s legacy scheme;

36.2.b

the reformed scheme.

36.3

The amount of the remediable transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

###### Transfers in from a public service pension scheme on or after 1st October 2023

37

37.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable transfer value—

37.1.a

which is accepted by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023, and

37.1.b

where the sending scheme is a public service pension scheme.

37.2

The scheme manager, having consulted the scheme actuary, must determine—

37.2.a

M’s overall rights in relation to the remediable transfer value in the legacy
scheme;

37.2.b

M’s benefits if the remediable transfer value were applied in respect of
rights in the reformed scheme.

#### Transfers on a club basis

##### Club transfers before 1st October 2023

###### Club transfers out before 1st October 2023

38

38.1

This regulation applies in relation to each member (“ M ”) in respect of whom
a remediable club transfer value was paid by the scheme manager before 1st
October 2023.

38.2

The scheme manager must calculate the following amounts—

38.2.a

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a police pension scheme as if M’s
remediable rights had been secured in M’s legacy scheme;

38.2.b

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a police pension scheme as if M’s
remediable rights had been secured in the reformed scheme.

38.3

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme the result of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

38.4

Where the receiving scheme is a local government scheme (within the meaning of
section 86(1) of PSPJOA 2022) and—

38.4.a

the greater of the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) (“ x ”) is greater
than

38.4.b

the amount of the remediable club transfer value (“ y ”),

the scheme manager must pay the receiving scheme an amount equal to  x - y .

38.5

A payment made under paragraph (4) is subject to the same conditions as the
remediable club transfer value.

###### Club transfers in before 1st October 2023

39

39.1

This regulation applies in relation to each remediable club transfer value in
respect of a member (“ M ”) which was accepted by the scheme manager before
1st October 2023.

39.2

The scheme manager may accept an adjustment in the value of a remediable club
transfer value—

39.2.a

in respect of the remediable rights to which the remediable club transfer
value relates, and

39.2.b

which is made by the sending scheme pursuant to, or to provision made under,
PSPJOA 2022.

39.3

An adjustment accepted under paragraph (2) is to be used for the purpose of
determining M’s benefits under a police pension scheme on the same terms as
the remediable club transfer value.

39.4

The scheme manager must determine—

39.4.a

M’s overall rights in relation to the remediable transfer value in the legacy
scheme;

39.4.b

M’s benefits if the remediable club transfer value, together with any
adjustment accepted under paragraph (2), were applied in respect of rights in
the reformed scheme.

##### Club transfers on or after 1st October 2023

###### Application of Section 2

40

This Section applies in respect of a deferred choice member (“ M ”) where no
pension benefits have become payable in relation to M’s remediable service.

###### Club transfers out on or after 1st October 2023

41

41.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable club transfer value to be
paid in respect of a member by the scheme manager on or after 1st October
2023.

41.2

The scheme manager must calculate the following amounts—

41.2.a

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a police pension scheme as if M’s
remediable rights had been secured in M’s legacy scheme;

41.2.b

the club transfer value of M’s rights under a police pension scheme as if M’s
remediable rights had been secured in the reformed scheme.

41.3

The amount of the remediable club transfer value is the greater of the amounts
calculated under paragraph (2).

41.4

The scheme manager must provide to the receiving scheme the result of the
calculations mentioned in paragraph (2).

###### Club transfers in on or after 1st October 2023

42

42.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remediable club transfer value
payment which is accepted by the scheme manager on or after 1st October 2023.

42.2

The scheme manager must determine—

42.2.a

M’s overall rights in relation to the remediable club transfer value in the
legacy scheme;

42.2.b

M’s benefits if the remediable club transfer value were applied in respect of
rights in the reformed scheme.

##### Variation of the club transfer application period

###### Variation of the club transfer application period

43

Regulation 189(2)(c) of the 2015 Regulations applies in relation to—

43.a

a remedy member who is not a full protection member within the meaning of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to those Regulations, and

43.b

a transfer payment request for a club transfer value payment in respect of
such a member,

as if for “P’s first day of eligible service” there were substituted  “1st
October 2023” .

#### Transfers on a non-club basis

##### Non-club transfers in

43A

43A.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) to whom—

43A.1.a

regulation F6 of the 1987 Regulations (previous service reckonable under
current interchange arrangements)  would have applied, had M been a member of
the 1987 Scheme during the remedy period, or

43A.1.b

regulation 15 of the 2006 Regulations (service reckonable by reason of
transfer value)  would have applied, had M been a member of the 2006 Scheme
during the remedy period.

43A.2

A scheme manager may decide to accept, in respect of M’s former service, a
transfer value in accordance with, as the case may be—

43A.2.a

regulation F6 of the 1987 Regulations, or

43A.2.b

regulation 15 of the 2006 Regulations.

43A.3

A decision under paragraph (2) may only be made—

43A.3.a

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for a relevant breach of the non-discrimination rule, the same or a similar
decision would, during the period of M’s remediable police service, have been
made by the scheme manager,

43A.3.b

before—

43A.3.b.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

43A.3.b.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, and

43A.3.c

after an application in accordance with paragraph (4) is approved by the
scheme manager.

43A.4

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

43A.4.a

it is in writing in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

43A.4.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purposes of—

43A.4.b.i

making a decision under paragraph (2);

43A.4.b.ii

determining the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(a), and

43A.4.c

it is received by the scheme manager—

43A.4.c.i

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the later of—

43A.4.c.i.aa

the day on which a remediable service statement is first provided in respect
of M;

43A.4.c.i.bb

the day on which this regulation comes into force, or

43A.4.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances.

#### Treatment of rights secured by virtue of a remediable value

##### Application and interpretation of 

44

44.1

This regulation  applies in relation to a remediable value.

44.2

In  this Chapter , “ remediable value ” means the following accepted by the
scheme manager in respect of a member (“ M ”)—

44.2.a

a remediable transfer value, together with any payment accepted under
regulation 34 (3) ;

44.2.b

a remediable club transfer value, together with any payment accepted under
regulation 39 (2) .

##### Remediable value treated as being in the legacy scheme

45

45.1

This regulation  applies where—

45.1.a

a remediable value was accepted into the reformed scheme by the scheme manager
in respect of M during the period of M’s remediable police service, and

45.1.b

the benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable police service are, by
virtue of the operation of these Regulations or PSPJOA 2022, legacy scheme
benefits.

45.2

The remediable value—

45.2.a

is not, and is treated as never having been, accepted into the reformed
scheme, and

45.2.b

is treated as being, and as always having been, accepted in M’s legacy scheme.

45.3

Paragraph (1)  has effect—

45.3.a

for the purposes of determining which police pension scheme is (or at any time
was) required to pay benefits to or in respect of the remediable value, and

45.3.b

subject to  regulation 46 , for all other purposes.

##### Treatment of rights to benefits secured by virtue of a remediable value

46

46.1

Paragraphs (2)  and (4) apply where a remediable value is treated as being
accepted into M’s legacy scheme by virtue of  regulation 45 .

46.2

The scheme manager must confer rights to benefits under the legacy scheme in
relation to the remediable value that are equivalent to—

46.2.a

where M’s legacy scheme would have permitted the transfer in of the entire
remediable value had the transfer taken place immediately before 1st April
2022, the rights to legacy scheme benefits that would have been secured if the
remediable value had been transferred into that scheme in the same relevant
pension year in which the remediable value was accepted;

46.2.b

otherwise—

46.2.b.i

where M has relevant reformed scheme service (within the meaning of
regulation 31 (2) (b) (i)), the rights to legacy scheme benefits that would
have been secured if that portion of the remediable value that the legacy
scheme would have permitted to be transferred in were transferred into that
scheme in the same relevant pension year in which the remediable value was
accepted, together with the rights to reformed scheme benefits if the
remaining portion of the remediable value had been transferred into the
reformed scheme in the same relevant pension year in which the remediable
value was accepted;

46.2.b.ii

where M does not have relevant reformed scheme service, the rights to legacy
scheme benefits that would have been secured if that portion of the remediable
value that the legacy scheme would have permitted to be transferred in were
transferred into that scheme in the same relevant pension year in which the
remediable value was accepted.

46.3

Where  paragraph (2) (b) (ii)  applies, the scheme manager owes to M or, where
M is deceased, to M’s personal representatives an amount by way of
compensation equal to the value of rights to reformed scheme benefits that
would have been secured if the portion of the remediable value that M’s legacy
scheme would not have permitted to be transferred in had been transferred into
the reformed scheme.

46.4

The rights to benefits that would otherwise have been secured by the
remediable value are extinguished.

46.5

Paragraph (6) applies where—

46.5.a

the benefits payable to or in respect of M’s remediable police service are
reformed scheme benefits by virtue of a section 6 election or a section 10
election (including, in either case, a deemed election), and

46.5.b

the rights to benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable value would
otherwise be legacy scheme benefits.

46.6

Where this paragraph applies, the scheme manager must, having consulted the
scheme actuary where the remediable value is a remediable transfer value, vary
the value of those rights so that they are of an equivalent value to rights M
would have secured under the reformed scheme if the remediable value had been
transferred into that scheme in the same relevant pension year that the
remediable value was accepted.

46.7

In this regulation, “ relevant pension year ” has the meaning given by
direction 5(16)(c)(i) of the PSP Directions 2022.

##### Benefits already paid in relation to transferred in remediable rights

47

47.1

Paragraph (2)  applies in relation to any benefits (“the paid benefits”) that
the reformed scheme has at any time paid to a person (“ P ”) so far as—

47.1.a

they are calculated by reference to a remediable value, and

47.1.b

they are benefits that, as a result of  regulation 45 (2) (a) , P was not
entitled to receive from the scheme.

47.2

The paid benefits are to be treated for all purposes—

47.2.a

as not having been paid to P by the reformed scheme, but

47.2.b

as having been paid to P instead by the legacy scheme.

##### Pension benefits and lump sum benefits in relation to a remediable value

48

48.1

This regulation  applies in relation to any benefits that have been in
relation to a remediable value accepted in relation to an immediate choice
member.

48.2

Where, at the operative time—

48.2.a

the aggregate of benefits that (after taking into account the effect, if any,
of  regulation 47 ) have been paid under the legacy scheme to any person (“
the beneficiary ”) in respect of M’s transferred in remediable rights, exceeds

48.2.b

the aggregate of the benefits to which (after taking into account the effect,
if any, of  regulation 45  in relation to the rights) the beneficiary is
entitled under the scheme in respect of the rights,

the beneficiary must pay an amount equal to the difference to the scheme.

48.3

Where, at the operative time—

48.3.a

the amount mentioned in  paragraph (2) (a) , is less than

48.3.b

the amount mentioned in  paragraph (2) (b) ,

the scheme manager must pay an amount equal to the difference to the
beneficiary.

48.4

In  this regulation , “ the operative time ” means—

48.4.a

if an immediate choice decision is made in relation to M’s remediable police
service, the time the decision is made;

48.4.b

otherwise, the end of the section 6 election period in relation to M.

### Provision about special cases

#### Ill-health retirement

##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 1

49

49.1

This Chapter applies in relation to an immediate choice member (“ M ”) who,
during the period beginning on 1st April 2015 and ending on 31st March 2022,
became entitled to—

49.1.a

an ill-health award under regulation B3  of the 1987 Regulations;

49.1.b

an ill-health pension under regulation 29 of the 2006 Regulations;

49.1.c

an ill-health pension under regulation 102 of the 2015 Regulations.

49.2

In this Chapter—

      “ 1987 IHR member ” means a member described in  paragraph (1) (a) ;
“ 2006 IHR member ” means a member described in  paragraph (1) (b) ;
“ 2015 IHR member ” means a member described in  paragraph (1) (c) ;
“ alternative scheme ” means, in relation to—           a 1987 IHR member or a
2006 IHR member, the reformed scheme;              a 2015 IHR member, the
member’s legacy scheme;                  “ ill-health benefits ” means
benefits payable by virtue of an entitlement mentioned in  paragraph (1) ;
“ police pension authority ” has the meaning given in regulation 73 of the
2015 Regulations;           “ remediable ill-health benefits ” means ill-
health benefits payable in relation to M’s remediable police service;
“ selected medical practitioner ” means a duly qualified medical practitioner
appointed by the police pension authority.

##### M’s entitlement to ill-health benefits to be treated as equivalent in M’s alternative scheme

50

50.1

For the purposes of PSPJOA 2022 and these Regulations, M is to be treated as
meeting the requirements for an equivalent ill-health award in M’s alternative
scheme.

50.2

No question relating to M’s entitlement to ill-health benefits that has been
decided following referral to a selected medical practitioner is to be re-
opened by virtue of any provision of PSPJOA 2022 or of these Regulations.

50.3

In this regulation—

      “ equivalent ill-health award in M’s alternative scheme ” means—
where M is entitled to an ill-health award under regulation B3 of the 1987
Regulations, a lower tier award under the reformed scheme;              where
M is entitled to—           a lower tier award under the 2006 scheme, a lower
tier award under the reformed scheme;              an upper tier award under
the 2006 scheme, an upper tier award under the reformed scheme;
where M is entitled to—          a lower tier award under the reformed scheme,
and—           M’s legacy scheme is the 1987 scheme, an award under regulation
B3 of the 1987 Regulations;              M’s legacy scheme is the 2006 scheme,
a lower tier award under that scheme;                    an upper tier award
under the reformed scheme and M’s legacy scheme is the 2006 scheme, an upper
tier award under that scheme;                        “ lower tier award ”
means, in relation to—           the 2006 scheme, an award determined in
accordance with regulation 29(3) of the 2006 Regulations;              the
reformed scheme, an ill-health pension payable under regulation 102(3)(a) of
the 2015 Regulations;                  “ upper tier award ” means, in relation
to—           the 2006 scheme, an award determined in accordance with
regulation 29(4) of the 2006 Regulations;              the reformed scheme, an
ill-health pension payable under regulation 102(3)(b) of the 2015 Regulations.

##### Deciding whether a 1987 IHR member is entitled to an upper tier award

51

51.1

This regulation  applies where—

51.1.a

M is a 1987 IHR member, and

51.1.b

the question of whether M is permanently medically unfit for engaging in any
regular employment within the meaning of Part 6 of the 2015 Regulations has
not been referred to a selected medical practitioner.

51.2

The police pension authority must refer the following questions to a selected
medical practitioner—

51.2.a

whether M was, at time of the original decision or at any time during the
relevant period, medically unfit for engaging in any regular employment, and

51.2.b

whether that medical unfitness was likely to be permanent.

51.3

The selected medical practitioner must—

51.3.a

examine or interview M if the selected medical practitioner thinks it is
necessary to do so to decide either of the questions referred under  paragraph
(2) ,

51.3.b

decide the questions referred under  paragraph (2) , and

51.3.c

give the police pension authority and M a report containing a decision on
those questions.

51.4

Regulation 81(3) of, and Schedule 1 to, the 2015 Regulations applies to the
report mentioned in paragraph (3)(c) as they apply in relation to the report
mentioned in regulation 81(2)(c) of those Regulations.

51.5

For the purpose of deciding the questions in  paragraph (2) —

51.5.a

the selected medical practitioner may only have regard to information that was
available or could have been produced during the relevant period;

51.5.b

the following provisions of the 2015 Regulations apply as they apply for the
purpose of deciding a question under  Part 6  of those Regulations—

51.5.b.i

regulation 75 (2) to (4)  (receipt of appropriate medical treatment);

51.5.b.ii

regulation 76(3)(c) and (d) (criteria for deciding whether a member is
permanently medically unfit for engaging in any regular employment).

51.6

Where the selected medical practitioner decides both of the questions referred
under  paragraph (2)  in the affirmative, M is to be treated for the purposes
of PSPJOA 2022 and of these Regulations as meeting the requirements for an
upper tier award in the reformed scheme (as defined in  regulation 50 (3)  of
these Regulations).

51.7

Schedule 1 of the 2015 Regulations applies in relation to a report containing
a decision of the selected medical practitioner in accordance with this
regulation as it applies in relation to a report by the selected practitioner
containing a medical decision in accordance with those Regulations.

51.8

In  this regulation —

      “ medical unfitness ” has the meaning given in regulation 74(1) of the
2015 Regulations;           “ original decision ” means the decision under
Part H of the 1987 Regulations by virtue of which M was deemed permanently
disabled;           “ progressive medical condition ” means a medical
condition which—           of its nature, could have been expected, as at the
time of M’s retirement, to affect M with increasing severity, and
is a progressive medical condition within the meaning given by regulation
112(6) of the 2015 Regulations.                  “ relevant period ” means the
period—           beginning with the time of the original decision, and
ending on the earlier of—           except where the original decision
attributed M’s permanent disablement a progressive medical condition, five
years after the time of the original decision;              the beginning of
the day on which M reaches 60 years of age;              the time when an
immediate choice decision or a deferred choice decision is made, or deemed to
be made, in relation to M’s remediable police service.

##### Determining the value of M’s remediable ill-health benefits

52

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable after 1st October
2023  ..., determine the value of M’s remediable ill-health benefits as if
they had been secured in M’s alternative scheme.

#### Miscellaneous special cases

##### Protection of the amount of pension payable to an eligible child

53

53.1

This regulation applies where—

53.1.a

immediately before 1st October 2023, benefits are in payment to an eligible
child (“ E ”) in respect of the remediable police service of a deceased
member,

53.1.b

there is a surviving adult (“ S ”) in relation to the deceased member,

53.1.c

S does not have parental responsibility for E, and

53.1.d

S makes an immediate choice decision which would (disregarding this
regulation) result in a decrease in the amount of benefits payable to E in
relation to M’s remediable police service.

53.2

Where this regulation applies—

53.2.a

E does not owe the scheme manager a liability under section 14(3) in respect
of benefits received in relation to M’s remediable police service, and

53.2.b

the amount of benefits payable continues to be the amount that was payable
before the election was made.

##### Payment of annual allowance tax charges and provision of information

54

Where a remedy member is unable to give an effective notice to the scheme
administrator under section 237B(3) of FA 2004  in relation to an in-scope tax
year (within the meaning of direction 7(7) of the PSP Directions 2022) because
the time limit in section 237BA  has passed, direction 7(2) to (6) of the PSP
Directions 2022 applies in relation to the remedy member.

##### Elections for non-pensionable payment instead of temporary pay

55

55.1

This regulation  applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) who—

55.1.a

in accordance with a determination made under regulation 27 of the Police
Regulations 2003 , made an election (an “NPP election”) to receive a non-
pensionable payment instead of any temporary increase in pay in respect of
their remediable police service to which M would otherwise have been entitled
in accordance with a determination under that regulation, or

55.1.b

was entitled to make an NPP election, but did not.

55.2

Where—

55.2.a

an NPP election was made, the relevant decision-maker may elect for M’s
remediable police service to be treated as if no NPP election was made (and
never had been made) in relation to that service;

55.2.b

no NPP election was made, the relevant decision-maker may elect for M’s
remediable police service to be treated as if an NPP election was made (and
always had been made) in relation to that service.

55.3

An election under  paragraph (2)  has effect for the purposes of determining—

55.3.a

the value of rights to benefits that M secured by virtue of M’s pension
contributions,

55.3.b

the amount of any pension benefits or lump sum benefits that are (or at any
time were) payable under a police pension scheme to or in respect of M, and

55.3.c

the amount of pension contributions that were payable under a police pension
scheme in relation to M’s remediable police service.

55.4

Where M is—

55.4.a

an immediate choice member, an election under  paragraph (2)  may only be
made—

55.4.a.i

in the same form and manner, and at the same time, as any immediate choice
decision in relation to M’s remediable service, and

55.4.a.ii

where the immediate choice decision is that the benefits payable in relation
to M’s remediable police service are the benefits under M’s alternative
scheme;

55.4.b

a deferred choice member, an election under  paragraph (2)  may only be made—

55.4.b.i

in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager, and

55.4.b.ii

before the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which a
remediable service statement is provided under  regulation 4 (2) (a)   or (c)
in relation to M’s remediable police service.

55.5

Where an election is made under  paragraph (2) —

55.5.a

the scheme manager must  ..., vary the value of M’s remediable rights under
the legacy scheme so that they are equivalent to the value of rights that
would have been secured by M’s pension contributions taking into account
paragraph (3) (a) ;

55.5.b

where M is an immediate choice member—

55.5.b.i

section 14(3) to (6) of PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to M taking into
account  paragraph (3) (b) , and

55.5.b.ii

section 15(3) and (4) of PSPJOA 2022 applies in relation to M taking into
account  paragraph (3) (c) ;

55.5.c

where M is a deferred choice member, section 16(3) and (4) of PSPJOA 2022
applies in relation to M—

55.5.c.i

taking into account  paragraph (3) (c) , and

55.5.c.ii

as if the references to the coming into force of section 2(1) included
references to the time when the election under  paragraph (2)  was made.

55.6

An election under paragraph (2) is irrevocable.

55.7

In  this regulation —

“ M’s alternative scheme ” means, where M was at the time of making the NPP
election in pensionable service under— the legacy scheme, the reformed scheme;
the reformed scheme, the legacy scheme; “ relevant decision-maker ” means—
where M is an immediate choice member, the immediate choice decision-maker in
relation to M; where M is a deferred choice member, the deferred choice-
decision maker in relation to M; “ remediable rights ” means rights secured by
virtue of pension contributions paid in relation to M’s remediable police
service.

### Immediate detriment cases

#### Treatment of immediate detriment cases

56

56.1

This regulation applies in relation to a person’s (“A’s”) remediable police
service where an immediate detriment remedy has been obtained in relation to
that service by virtue of either of the conditions in section 32(2) and (3)
(the “relevant condition”) of PSPJOA 2022 having been met.

56.2

These Regulations and sections 2 to 30 of PSPJOA 2022 apply in relation to A’s
remediable police service as they apply in relation to an immediate choice
member in respect of whose remediable police service an immediate choice
decision has been made that no section 6 election is to be made.

56.3

Any amount paid by way of benefits or compensation pursuant to the agreement
or (as the case may be) determination by virtue of which the relevant
condition has been met is to be treated for the purposes of section 14 of
PSPJOA as—

56.3.a

a lump sum benefit, if the amount was paid by way of a lump sum;

56.3.b

a pension benefit, if the amount was paid otherwise than by way of a lump sum.

### Liabilities and payment

#### Application of 

##### Application of Chapters 1, 2 and 3

57

Chapters 1, 2 and 3 apply in relation to a relevant amount  owed in respect of
the remediable police service of a remedy member.

#### Interest, compensation and netting off

##### Interest

58

58.1

The scheme manager must calculate interest on a relevant amount described in
direction 15 of the PSP Directions 2022 in accordance with the provisions of
directions 14 and 15 which apply to that description of relevant amount.

58.2

In relation to a relevant amount not described in direction 15 of the PSP
Directions 2022, the scheme manager must determine whether interest is paid
and, if so, what rate of interest applies and how it is calculated.

58.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply in relation to a
determination under paragraph (2) as if it were a determination under
direction 16(1) of those Directions—

58.3.a

direction 16(2) (provision of explanation);

58.3.b

direction 16(3) and (4) (appeals).

##### Indirect compensation

59

59.1

This regulation  applies where, pursuant to an application under  regulation
60 , the scheme manager determines that an immediate choice member (“ M ”) has
incurred a compensatable loss  that is a Part 4 tax loss  (a “relevant loss”).

59.2

M is not to be paid an amount under section   23  of PSPJOA 2022 by way of
compensation in respect of the relevant loss.

59.3

Instead, the amount of benefit payable under a police pension scheme is to be
increased to reflect the amount of the relevant loss in such manner as
determined by the scheme manager in accordance with direction 10(2) to (4) of
the PSP Directions 2022.

##### Applications for compensation or indirect compensation

60

60.1

This regulation  applies in relation to—

60.1.a

the payment of a relevant amount by way of compensation under section 23(1) of
PSPJOA 2022;

60.1.b

the increase of benefits by way of indirect compensation under  regulation 59
.

60.2

The relevant amount is not payable, or (as the case may be) the benefits are
not to be increased, except where—

60.2.a

an application is made in accordance with direction 18(1) and (2) of the PSP
Directions 2022,

60.2.b

the application is accompanied by such information that the scheme manager by
written notice   requires   the person making the application (“ P ”) to
provide in relation to the proposed compensation which is—

60.2.b.i

information within P’s possession, or

60.2.b.ii

information which P may reasonably be expected to obtain, and

60.2.c

the scheme manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 18(3) of
those Directions.

60.3

The following apply in relation to a determination in accordance with
direction 18(3) of the PSP Directions 2022—

60.3.a

direction 18(4) (provision of explanation);

60.3.b

direction 18(5) and (6) (appeals).

##### Netting off

61

61.1

This regulation  applies where—

61.1.a

relevant amounts owed by and to a person (“ P ”) fall to be paid at the same
time or similar times, and

61.1.b

the scheme manager has—

61.1.b.i

determined the interest (if any) that is to be paid in the relevant amounts in
accordance with  regulation 58 , and

61.1.b.ii

reduced the relevant amounts by tax relief amounts in accordance with
regulation 62 .

61.2

The scheme manager may determine, in accordance with direction 19(2) to (5) of
the PSP Directions 2022, that the relevant amounts (and any interest on them)
must be aggregated and that the difference must be paid by P to the scheme or
(as the case may be) by the scheme to P.

61.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply to a determination
under  paragraph (2)  as if it were a determination under direction 19(1) of
those Directions—

61.3.a

direction 19(6)   (provision of explanation) ;

61.3.b

direction 19(7) and (8) (appeals).

#### Reduction and waiver of liabilities

##### Requirement to reduce liabilities by tax relief amounts

62

62.1

This regulation  applies where, under section 15, 16 or 17 of PSPJOA 2022—

62.1.a

a person owes a liability to pay pension contributions in relation to the
remediable police service of a remedy member, or

62.1.b

the scheme manager owes a liability to pay compensation in relation to such
service.

62.2

The scheme manager must reduce the liability by tax relief amounts—

62.2.a

determined in accordance with direction 4(5) to (9) of the PSP Directions
2022, and

62.2.b

before the liability is netted off in accordance with  regulation 61 .

62.3

The following provisions of the PSP Directions 2022 apply where the scheme
manager makes a determination in accordance with direction 4(8)—

62.3.a

direction 4(10) (provision of explanation);

62.3.b

direction 4(11) and (12) (appeals).

##### Power to reduce or waive amounts owed by a person to the scheme manager

63

63.1

The scheme manager may reduce or waive an amount owed by a person to the
scheme under—

63.1.a

section 14, 15, 16 or 17 (“ the corrections provisions ”) of PSPJOA 2022, or

63.1.b

these Regulations.

63.2

When reducing or waiving an amount under  paragraph (1) , the scheme manager
must comply with the requirements set out in direction 4(1)(a) to (c) of the
PSP Directions 2022 (and the reference in direction 4(1)(c) to “any scheme
regulations made by virtue of section 26(1)(b) of PSPJOA 2022” is to be read
as a reference to  regulation 66 ).

##### Agreement to waive a liability owed by the scheme manager in respect of an immediate correction

64

64.1

This regulation applies where the scheme manager owes a liability to pay
compensation to a person (“ P ”) under section 16(3) of PSPJOA 2022.

64.2

The scheme manager and P may agree to waive the liability.

64.3

Such agreement—

64.3.a

must be in writing,

64.3.b

may be rescinded with the agreement of the scheme manager and P, and

64.3.c

in any event ceases to apply where—

64.3.c.i

the end of the section 10 election period in relation to the remediable police
service in respect of which compensation is payable has passed, and

64.3.c.ii

no section 10 election has been made (or deemed to have been made) in relation
to that service.

64.4

Where an agreement is rescinded or otherwise ceases to apply, the scheme
manager owes P the liability mentioned in paragraph (1).

#### Payment of net liabilities

##### Application of 

65

This Chapter  applies in respect of a relevant amount (together with any
interest on that amount) which will be payable after taking into account the
effect, if any, of  regulations 58  to  64  (a “net liability”).

##### Payment of amounts owed to the scheme manager

66

66.1

This regulation  applies where a person (“ P ”) has a net liability to the
scheme manager within the meaning of  regulation 65 .

66.2

The scheme manager must send notice in writing to P setting out—

66.2.a

how the net liability has been calculated,

66.2.b

an explanation of the circumstances in which the net liability may be reduced
or waived under  regulation 63 ,

66.2.c

where the net liability has been calculated by reference to an amount by way
of compensation under section 16(3) of PSPJOA 2022, an explanation of the
agreement that may be made under  regulation 64 ,

66.2.d

when and how the net liability must be paid, and

66.2.e

the consequences of not paying the net liability.

66.3

Where—

66.3.a

the scheme manager has sent a notice under  paragraph (2) , and

66.3.b

the amount of the net liability is subsequently adjusted,

the scheme manager must send another notice in writing to P under  paragraph
(2) .

66.4

P must pay the amount of the net liability to the scheme manager—

66.4.a

where the net liability relates to the remediable police service of—

66.4.a.i

an immediate choice member, before the end of the period of six months
beginning with the day after the day on which P receives the most recent
notice under  paragraph (2) ;

66.4.a.ii

a deferred choice member, in accordance with  paragraph (5) ,

66.4.b

where the net liability includes an amount by way of corrections to pension
contributions that are owed by virtue of an opted-out service election, in
accordance with an agreement under  paragraph (6) , or

66.4.c

in accordance with an agreement under  paragraph (8) .

66.5

Where  paragraph (4) (a) (ii)  applies, P must pay the full amount of the net
liability—

66.5.a

before the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which
any remediable service statement is provided under  regulation 4 (2) (a)  or
(b)  in relation to the remediable police service in respect of which the net
liability is owed,

66.5.b

where  paragraph (4) (b) also applies, in accordance with an agreement under
paragraph (6), or

66.5.c

in any event, before benefits become payable in relation to the remediable
police service in respect of which the net liability is owed.

66.6

Where  paragraph (4) (b)  applies, P and the scheme manager may agree that the
net liability is to be paid in full by way of instalments over the period—

66.6.a

beginning on a date specified in the agreement (“the start date”), and

66.6.b

ending on the earlier of—

66.6.b.i

the day 14 years after the start date;

66.6.b.ii

the day before it is reasonably expected that, if a section 10 election were
made in relation to the remediable police service to which the net liability
relates, reformed scheme benefits would become payable to or in respect of
that member.

66.7

The amount of each instalment to be paid in accordance with an agreement under
paragraph (6)  is to be determined having consulted the scheme actuary.

66.8

P and the scheme manager may agree that the net liability is to be paid in
part or in full by way of deductions from any benefits (including a lump sum
benefit) to which P is entitled under a police pension scheme.

66.9

P and the scheme manager may agree to vary an agreement under  paragraph (6)
or  (8) .

66.10

Where P does not pay any part of a net liability by the time specified in
paragraph (4) (a)(i) or (5)(c), or in accordance with an agreement under
paragraph (6)  or  (8) , the scheme manager may deduct such sums from benefits
payable to P under a police pension scheme as seem reasonable to the scheme
manager for the purpose of discharging P’s liability.

66.11

P has no liability to pay any amount on account of the net liability until the
time for payment arises in accordance with this regulation or an agreement
under this regulation, and until that time the scheme manager has no cause of
action for the recovery of any such amount (whether for the purposes of the
Limitation Act 1980  or otherwise).

##### Payment of amounts owed to a person

67

67.1

This regulation applies where the scheme manager owes a net liability to a
person (“ P ”).

67.2

The scheme manager must pay the amount of the net liability to P—

67.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the scheme manager determines the
amount of the net liability, or

67.2.b

where the scheme manager requires P to provide information in accordance with
paragraph (3), as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of that
information.

67.3

Before paying the amount of a net liability owed to P, the scheme manager may,
by written notice given as soon as reasonably practicable after the scheme
manager determines the amount of the net liability, require P to provide
information in relation to the payment of the net liability which is—

67.3.a

information within P’s possession, or

67.3.b

information which P may reasonably be expected to obtain.

       Chris Philp   Minister of State   Home Office      At 10.20 a.m. on
19th July 2023               We consent         Andrew Stephenson   Steve
Double   Two Lords Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury   HM Treasury
18th July 2023

Eligible decision-makers for deceased members

Regulations   4(3) , 6 (2) ,  8   (2)  and  12   (2)

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In  this Schedule —

“ beneficiary ” means a person who has become entitled to receive any death
benefit; “ child ”, except in the term “eligible child”, means a person under
the age of 18; “ death benefit ” means a benefit payable under a police
pension scheme in relation to a member of that scheme who has died; “ election
” means an opted-out service election, an immediate choice decision or a
deferred choice decision; “ eligible decision-maker ” means the person who may
make— an opted-out service election in accordance with  regulation 6 (2) (b) ;
an immediate choice decision in accordance with  regulation 8 (2) (b) ; a
deferred choice decision in accordance with  regulation 12 (2) (b) ;. “
surviving adult ” has the meaning given in regulation 134 of the 2015
Regulations.

1.2

In  this Schedule , a reference to—

1.2.a

a beneficiary is a reference to—

1.2.a.i

a beneficiary of death benefits in relation to M’s remediable police service;

1.2.a.ii

where the benefits in relation to M’s remediable police service are legacy
scheme benefits, a person who would be a beneficiary of death benefits in
relation to M’s remediable police service if the benefits in relation to that
service were reformed scheme benefits;

1.2.b

an eligible child is a reference to an eligible child of M;

1.2.c

M is a reference to the remedy member in respect of whose remediable police
service an election may be made;

1.2.d

a surviving adult is a reference to a surviving adult in relation to M.

##### Sole beneficiary: an adult

2

Where a person is—

2.a

the sole beneficiary, and

2.b

an adult,

the eligible decision-maker is that person.

##### Sole beneficiary: a child

3

Where a person (“ C ”) is—

3.a

the sole beneficiary, and

3.b

a child,

the eligible decision-maker is C’s parent or guardian.

##### Sole beneficiary: a body

4

Where a body (whether corporate or unincorporate) is the sole beneficiary, the
eligible decision-maker is—

4.a

M’s personal representative, or

4.b

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Sole beneficiary: M’s estate

5

Where M’s estate is the sole beneficiary, the eligible decision-maker is M’s
personal representative.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: including a surviving adult

6

Where—

6.a

two or more adults are the only beneficiaries, and

6.b

one of those adults is a surviving adult (“ A ”),

the eligible decision-maker is A.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: including adult eligible children

7

7.1

Where—

7.1.a

two or more adults are the only beneficiaries,

7.1.b

none of those adults is a surviving adult, and

7.1.c

two or more of those adults are eligible children,

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with  sub-paragraph
(2) .

7.2

The eligible decision-maker is—

7.2.a

the person agreed upon by the adult eligible children, or

7.2.b

where no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the
scheme manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance
with these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: nominated individuals only

8

8.1

Where—

8.1.a

two or more adults (the “nominated adults”) are beneficiaries of a lump sum
death benefit, and

8.1.b

none of the following are beneficiaries—

8.1.b.i

a surviving adult, or

8.1.b.ii

an eligible child (whether or not an adult),

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with  sub-paragraph
(2) .

8.2

The eligible decision-maker is—

8.2.a

M’s personal representative;

8.2.b

where M has no personal representative, the person agreed upon by the
nominated adults;

8.2.c

where—

8.2.c.i

M has no personal representative, and

8.2.c.ii

no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the scheme
manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance with
these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager,

the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: non-adult eligible children

9

Where the only beneficiaries are children, two or more of which are eligible
children, the eligible decision-maker is—

9.a

where one person has parental responsibility for all the eligible children,
that person;

9.b

otherwise—

9.b.i

M’s personal representative, or

9.b.ii

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: nominated children only

10

Where the only beneficiaries of lump sum death benefits are two or more
children who are not eligible children, the eligible decision-maker is—

10.a

where one person has parental responsibility for all the children, that
person;

10.b

otherwise—

10.b.i

M’s personal representative, or

10.b.ii

where M has no personal representative, the scheme manager.

##### Multiple beneficiaries: one or more adults and one or more children

11

11.1

Where the beneficiaries include one or more adults and one or more children—

11.1.a

M’s personal representative is the eligible decision-maker;

11.1.b

where M has no personal representative, and—

11.1.b.i

one of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult, that surviving adult is the
eligible decision-maker;

11.1.b.ii

none of the beneficiaries is a surviving adult and—

11.1.b.ii.aa

one or more of the beneficiaries is an eligible child, or

11.1.b.ii.bb

none of the beneficiaries is an eligible child,

the eligible decision-maker is determined in accordance with  sub-paragraph
(2) .

11.2

Where  sub-paragraph (1) (b) (ii)  applies, and—

11.2.a

all relevant children are under 18 and—

11.2.a.i

have the same guardian, the eligible-decision maker is that guardian;

11.2.a.ii

do not have the same guardian, the eligible decision-maker is the scheme
manager;

11.2.b

all relevant children are 18 or over, the eligible decision-maker is—

11.2.b.i

the person agreed upon by those relevant children, or

11.2.b.ii

where no decision about whether to make an election has been received by the
scheme manager by the day four weeks before an election must, in accordance
with these Regulations, be received by the scheme manager, the scheme manager;

11.2.c

one or more relevant children are under 18 and one or more of the relevant
children are 18 or over, the eligible decision-maker is the person agreed upon
by—

11.2.c.i

the relevant children who are 18 or over, and

11.2.c.ii

the guardian (or guardians) of the relevant children who are under 18.

11.3

In  sub-paragraph (2) , a relevant child is—

11.3.a

where  sub-paragraph (1) (b) (ii) (aa)  applies, an eligible child;

11.3.b

where  sub-paragraph (1) (b) (ii) (bb)  applies, a person who meets one of the
conditions in regulation 144(3) of the 2015 Regulations.

##### Other cases

12

In any case not covered by  paragraphs 2  to  11 , the eligible decision-maker
is the scheme manager.

## Explanatory Note

     (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Public Service Pensions  Act 2013 (c. 25)  (“PSPA 2013”) makes
provision, and confers powers to make further provision (in the form of “
scheme regulations ” as defined in section 1 of PSPA 2013), about the
establishment of public service pension schemes. The Police Pensions
Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/445 ) (“ the 2015 Regulations ”) are the scheme
regulations establishing the successor police pension scheme (“ the reformed
scheme ”) to the schemes established by the Police Pensions Regulations 1987 (
S.I. 1987/257 ) and the Police Pensions Regulations 2006 ( S. I. 2006/3415 )
(“the legacy schemes”). The 2015 Regulations provided for transitional
protection for certain cohorts of legacy scheme members. Transitional
protection of this sort was subsequently found to unlawfully discriminate
between legacy scheme members on the basis of age.

  The Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices  Act 2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA
2022”), at Chapter 1, makes provision, and confers powers for scheme
regulations under PSPA 2013 to make further provision, in relation to
specified service (“ remediable service ” as defined in section 1 of PSPJOA
2022) of members who benefitted from transitional protection, and of members
who did not benefit from transitional protection only by reason of their age.
Section 27 of PSPJOA 2022 requires certain powers to make scheme regulations
to be exercised in accordance with Treasury directions.

  These Regulations are scheme regulations under PSPA 2013 and in accordance
with PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in a police
pension scheme. They are, to the extent required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022,
made in accordance with Treasury directions under that section (in the form of
the Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and Information)
Directions 2022). These Regulations have retrospective effect, which is
authorised by section 3(3)(b) of PSPA 2013.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision about when and to whom a
remediable service statement is to be provided by the scheme manager, as well
as the contents of the remediable service statement.

  Part 3 makes provision about the principal decisions that may be made in
relation to a member’s remediable service—      a      Chapter 1 makes
provision about when and how an election may be made for service in respect of
which a member opted-out of a police pension scheme to be reinstated and
treated as remediable service;           b      Chapter 2 makes provision
about when and how a decision may be made, or be deemed to have been made,
about whether the remediable service of a pensioner or deceased member (an
“immediate choice member”) is to be treated as service in the member’s legacy
scheme or in the reformed scheme;           c      Chapter 3 makes provision
similar to Chapter 2, but in relation to the remediable service of an active
or deferred member (a “deferred choice member”).

  Part 4 makes provision about cases in which the pension rights secured by
virtue of a member’s remediable service are at issue in proceedings relating
to the member’s separation from a spouse or civil partner—      a      Chapter
1 makes provision about sharing the value of such rights under a pension
sharing order where they are subject to a pension debit under section 29 of
the Welfare Reform and Pensions  Act 1999 (c. 30) . It provides, in
particular, for the calculation or, where appropriate, the re-calculation of
the value of a pension debit and a pension credit in relation to the rights;
b      Chapter 2 makes provision about the calculation of the value of rights
for the purposes of sharing those rights under an arrangement other than a
pension sharing order.

  Part 5 makes provision about lump sum voluntary contributions paid by a
member during the period of their remediable service, and periodical
contributions paid by a member under an arrangement which commenced during the
period of their remediable service, to secure further pension rights—      a
regulation 27 makes provision under which compensation is to be paid in
relation to voluntary contributions used to secure rights to reformed scheme
added pension during the period of their remediable service;           b
regulation 28 makes provision under which compensation is to be paid in
relation to voluntary contributions used to secure rights legacy scheme added
years during the period of their remediable service where the benefits to be
paid in relation to a member’s remediable service are reformed scheme
benefits;           c      regulation 29 makes provision under which a member
who has remediable service in the reformed scheme may elect to enter into a
retrospective arrangement to secure added years in the member’s legacy scheme
in respect of that remediable service.

  Part 6 makes provision about transfers in and out of a police pension scheme
of pension rights during the period of a member’s remediable service—      a
Chapter 1 makes provision about, among other things, the provision of a
remediable service statement to a person who has transferred out rights in
respect of remediable service and in respect of whom a remediable service
statement is not otherwise required to be provided;           b      Chapter 2
makes provision about transfers in and out of a police pension scheme on a
cash equivalent basis, including provision about the calculation (and, where
appropriate, the recalculation) of the value of a cash equivalent transfer
value, and the making and accepting of payments in relation to the transfer
value of rights secured by virtue of remediable service;           c
Chapter 3 makes provision similar to Chapter 2, but in relation to transfers
in and out of a police pension scheme on a club basis;           d
Chapter 4 makes provision for—      i      transfers into the reformed in
respect of rights secured by virtue of remediable service to be treated as
being transferred into the member’s legacy scheme where the benefits which
become payable in respect of the member’s remediable service are legacy scheme
benefits;           ii      the conferring or variation of rights in a
member’s legacy scheme to reflect a change in the value of those rights by
virtue of PSPJOA 2022 and these Regulations;           iii      financial
corrections of any pension benefits paid in respect of the transferred-in
rights of an immediate choice member.

  Part 7 makes provision about special cases—      a      Chapter 1 makes
provision about ill-health retirement—      i      regulation 50 makes
provision about the cases in which a member who met the requirements for an
ill-health retirement award in one police pension scheme is to be deemed as
meeting the requirements in their alternative police pension scheme;
ii      regulation 51 makes provision under which a member who has received an
ill-health retirement award under the Police Pensions Regulations 1987 is to
be assessed for eligibility for an upper tier award in the reformed scheme;
b      Chapter 2 makes provision about—      i      protecting the amount of
any child pension which is already in payment so that it will not be reduced
as a result of the PSPJOA 2022 or these Regulations;           ii      the
payment of annual allowance tax charges;           iii      revisiting
decisions about whether or not to elect for non-pensionable pay instead of
temporary pay.

  Part 8 makes provision cases in which a person has already obtained a remedy
in relation to their remediable service. Such persons are treated for the
purposes of PSPJOA 2022 and these Regulations as if they were an immediate
choice member who has elected to receive legacy scheme benefits in relation to
their remediable service.

  Part 9 makes provision about any amounts (“relevant amounts”) owed to or by
a person as a result of PSPJOA 2022 or these Regulations—      a      Chapter
2 makes provision for the calculation of interest on relevant amounts, for the
increase of benefits instead of the payment of a relevant amount, for the
making of an application where a person wishes to claim compensation, and for
the netting off of relevant amounts owed to and by a person;           b
Chapter 3 makes provision about the reduction and waiver of relevant amounts,
in particular a requirement for the scheme manager to reduce some relevant
amounts by tax relief amounts, the discretion of the scheme manager to reduce
or waive relevant amounts owed by a person to a scheme in certain
circumstances, and the option to defer payment of certain relevant amounts
owed to a member until an election is made in relation to the member’s
remediable service;           c      Chapter 4 makes provision about when and
how relevant amounts must be paid.

  An impact assessment has not been completed for these Regulations. An
Explanatory Memorandum has been published alongside these Regulations on
http://www.legislation.gov.uk .

