Title: The Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-02-26
Description: These Regulations establish the Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme. The Scheme provides for payments to be made by the Department to eligible farm businesses in relation to the slaughter of bulls, heifers and steers which meet the eligible animal requirements.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/212

## The Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

Agriculture

Made 11th December 2023

Coming into operation 1st January 2024

The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs  makes these
Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the
Agriculture Act (Northern Ireland) 1949  and Articles 52(9) and 70(4) of
Regulation (EU) No1307/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
17 December 2013 . These Regulations are made with the approval of the
Department of Finance  under section 9 of the Agriculture Act (Northern
Ireland) 1949 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st January 2024.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ applicant ” means an eligible farm business which has applied for a payment
under the scheme; “ approved slaughterhouse ” means an establishment used for
slaughtering eligible animals, the meat of which is intended for human
consumption and which is approved or conditionally approved under Article 4 of
Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004  of the European Parliament and of the Council
laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin ; “ authorised
person ” means any person authorised by the Department to act in matters
relating to these Regulations; “ Basic Payment Scheme ” has the same meaning
as in the Common Agricultural Policy Direct Payments (Cross Compliance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  and the Common Agricultural Policy Basic
Payment and Support Schemes Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 ; “ bull ”
means an uncastrated male bovine animal which has never been used for
breeding; “ eligible farm business ” means a farm business which meets the
requirements of regulation 5 in a relevant scheme year; “ heifer ” means a
female bovine animal which has never been pregnant or given birth to a calf; “
relevant scheme year ” means a scheme year in which an applicant applies for a
payment; “ scheme ” means the Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme; “ scheme year ”
means a calendar year beginning on 1st January and ending on 31st December; “
steer ” means a castrated bovine animal; “ the Department ” means the
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs.

### Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme Payments

3

3.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Department may, in accordance with
these Regulations, make a payment to an eligible farm business.

3.2

A payment application approved by the Department in a relevant scheme year
shall be paid into the account of the applicant from the month of January in
the following scheme year.

3.3

The Department may make payments for a scheme year for up to an annual maximum
number of 352,000 eligible animals.

### Specific requirements; animals and farm businesses

4

4.1

An eligible animal must be–

4.1.a

a bull, heifer or steer born in Northern Ireland in either case retained by
the applicant’s eligible farm business throughout a period of 60 days during
the 100 days immediately preceding the date of slaughter;

4.1.b

slaughtered at or under the maximum age specified in column 2 of Table 1 and
during the scheme year specified in column 1 of Table 1 below–

Table 1 Column 1 Scheme year Column 2 maximum age at slaughter Year 1 30
months Year 2 28 months Year 3 27 months Year 4 onwards 26 months

4.1.c

slaughtered in an approved slaughterhouse in Northern Ireland or exported for
slaughter outside Northern Ireland.

4.1.d

slaughtered wholly or mainly for human consumption.

4.2

For determining requirements under paragraph (1) information recorded on the
Northern Ireland Food Animal Information System maintained by the Department
will be used.

4.3

No payment under these Regulations shall be made in respect of an eligible
animal which has been acquired by the Department for slaughter under disease
control legislation.

5

An eligible farm business shall–

5.a

have applied for a payment under the scheme on or before the last day of the
relevant scheme year; and

5.b

be eligible for a payment under the Basic Payment Scheme.

### Provision of information

6

If an applicant has provided information which is incomplete, misleading or
inaccurate in relation to an animal then that animal shall be ineligible.

### Scheme Payment

7

The amount of the scheme payment is set out in Table 2 below–

Table 2 Payment Period Amount payable for an eligible animal For the period
from 1 January to 31 January 2024 inclusive. £20 For the period from 1
February to 29 February 2024 inclusive £40 For the period from 1 March to 31
March 2024 inclusive. £60 For the period from 1 April 2024. £75

### Withholding and recovery of overpayments

8

8.1

This regulation applies where an application for payment has been approved by
the Department and it becomes aware that the applicant—

8.1.a

is not eligible to receive that payment;

8.1.b

has without reasonable cause obstructed an authorised person in the exercise
of their powers under regulation 9; or

8.1.c

has failed to provide reasonably required assistance to an authorised person
under regulation 10.

8.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the Department may–

8.2.a

revoke the approval of the application for payment; and

8.2.b

where payment has not been made withhold the payment or any part of it; or

8.2.c

where payment has already been made, recover from the applicant an amount
equal to the whole or any part of the payment—

8.2.c.i

as a civil debt; or

8.2.c.ii

by way of offsetting against any sum otherwise payable to the applicant by the
Department.

8.3

Before exercising the power under paragraph (2), the Department must by a
withdrawal or recovery notice, (“ the notice ”)—

8.3.a

give the applicant a written explanation of the reasons for the proposed
action;

8.3.b

afford the applicant the opportunity to make written representations within 14
days beginning with the date of the issue of the notice; and

8.3.c

consider any representations made by or on behalf of the applicant.

### Powers of authorised persons

9

9.1

An authorised person may exercise any of the powers specified paragraphs (2)
to (4) for the purposes of these Regulations.

9.2

An authorised person on producing, if so required, a duly authenticated
document showing the person’s authority to do so, may at all reasonable hours
enter any land other than a building used only as a dwelling house.

9.3

An authorised person may—

9.3.a

carry out any inquiries, checks, examinations, measurements and tests;

9.3.b

take samples;

9.3.c

inspect any part of the land (whether it is farmed or is withdrawn from
agricultural production) and any livestock, crops, machinery or equipment;

9.3.d

mark any animal or other thing for identification purposes;

9.3.e

have access to, inspect and copy any documents or records (in whatever form
they are held) or remove such records to enable them to be copied;

9.3.f

have access to, inspect and check the operation of, any computer and any
associated apparatus or material which is or has been in use in connection
with the documents or records; and for this purpose require any person having
charge of, or otherwise concerned with the operation of, the computer,
apparatus or material to afford such assistance as is reasonably required and,
where a document or record is kept by means of a computer, reasonably require
the document to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away;

9.3.g

remove a carcase found on the land for the purpose of carrying out a post-
mortem examination on it;

9.3.h

take a photograph of anything on the land; and

9.3.i

remove anything reasonably believed to be evidence of any failure to meet the
eligibility conditions.

9.4

An authorised person entering any premises or land by virtue of this
regulation may take with them such other persons as they consider necessary.

9.5

For the purposes of this regulation a computer includes any electronic device.

### Assistance to authorised persons

10

An applicant or any employee, agent, contractor or tenant of an applicant
shall give an authorised person such assistance as may be reasonably required
to enable the authorised person to exercise the powers conferred by regulation
9.

### Offences and penalties

11

11.1

Any person who—

11.1.a

without reasonable cause obstructs an authorised person or a person
accompanying the authorised person (see regulation 9(4)) in exercise of the
power conferred on the authorised person by regulation 9; or

11.1.b

without reasonable cause fails to comply with a requirement under regulation
10, shall be guilty of an offence.

11.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed as requiring any person to answer
any question if to do so may incriminate that person.

11.3

A person guilty of an offence under paragraph (1)(a) shall be liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

11.4

A person guilty of an offence under paragraph (1)(b) shall be liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Agriculture, Environment
and Rural Affairs on 11th December 2023 (L.S.) Rosemary Agnew A senior officer
of the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs The Department
of Finance approves the making of these Regulations. Sealed with the Official
Seal of the Department of Finance on 11th December 2023 (L.S.) Barry Armstrong
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations establish the Beef Carbon Reduction Scheme. The Scheme
provides for payments to be made by the Department to eligible farm businesses
in relation to the slaughter of bulls, heifers and steers which meet the
eligible animal requirements.

The Scheme— specifies the payments available (regulation 3); specifies the
eligibility criteria for animals and farm businesses (regulations 4 and 5);
specifies the provision of information (regulation 6); specifies the Scheme
payment (regulation 7); provides the powers for withholding and recovery of
overpayments (regulation 8); provides for the powers of authorised persons
(regulations 9); specifies the assistance to authorised persons (regulation
10); and provides for the offences and penalties (regulation 11).

