Title: The Parental Bereavement Leave (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers inserted into the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (N.I. 16) (the “1996 Order”) by the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (c. 5).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/156

## The Parental Bereavement Leave (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

Regulations made by the Department for the Economy and laid before the
Assembly under Article 251(1A) of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months
from the date of their coming into operation

Employment Parental Bereavement

Made 28th September 2023

Coming into operation 29th September 2023

The Department for the Economy makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 70C(1) and (2) , 112EA(1) to (8), 112EB(1),
(4) and (5), 112EC, 112ED , 131  and 251(6) of the Employment Rights (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 .

### GENERAL


#### Citation and commencement


1

These Regulations may be cited as the Parental Bereavement Leave (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 29th
September 2023.

#### Application


2

These Regulations apply in respect of children who die on or after 6th April
2022.

#### Interpretation


3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ the 1996 Order ” means the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;
“ adopter ” means a person who intends to adopt C and to whom the Intercountry
Adoption (Hague Convention) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003  apply; “
approved foster parent ” means a person approved as a foster parent by the
authority under regulation 3 of the Foster Placement (Children) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1996 ; “ approved prospective adopter ” means a person
considered by the authority by virtue of the Adoption Agencies Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1989  to be a person suitable to adopt a child; “ authority
” has the same meaning as in the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ; “ C
” means the child in relation to whom an entitlement to parental bereavement
leave arises; “ intended parent ” means a person who— has applied, or intended
to apply during the period of 6 months beginning with the day of C’s birth—
with another person for an order under section 54 (parental orders: two
applicants) of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008  in respect of
C; or as the sole applicant for an order under section 54A(parental orders:
one applicant) of that Act  in respect of C; and expected the court to make
such an order on that application in respect of C; “ official notification ”
means written notification, issued by or on behalf of the relevant domestic
authority, that it is prepared to issue a certificate to the overseas
authority concerned with the adoption of C, or has issued a certificate and
sent it to that authority, confirming, in either case, that the adopter is
eligible to adopt and has been assessed and approved as being a suitable
adoptive parent; “ parental bereavement leave ” means leave under regulation
4; “ placed for adoption ” means— placed for adoption by virtue of regulation
12 of the Adoption Agencies Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1989 ; placed by an
authority with a person who is an approved foster parent who is also an
approved prospective adopter where the authority— is considering adoption for
C, or is satisfied that adoption is in the best interests of C, and is
considering whether that person would be a suitable adoptive parent for C;
placed for adoption under the Adoption and Children Act 2002  or the Adoption
and Children (Scotland) Act 2007 ; placed in accordance with section 22C of
the Children Act 1989  (ways in which looked after children are to be
accommodated and maintained) with a local authority foster parent who is also
a prospective adopter, following consideration in accordance with subsection
(9B)(c) of that section ; or placed in accordance with section 81 of the
Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014  with a prospective adopter,
following consideration in accordance with subsection (10) of that section; “
prospective adopter ” means a person who has been approved as suitable to
adopt a child and has been notified of that decision in accordance with
regulation 30B(4) of the Adoption Agencies Regulations 2005  or regulation
28(3) of the Adoption Agencies (Wales) Regulations 2005 ; “ relevant domestic
authority ” means— in the case of an adopter to whom the Intercountry Adoption
(Hague Convention) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 apply, the Department
of Health ; and in any other case, the Central Authority designated in
accordance with Article 6 of the Convention on Protection of Children and Co-
operation in respect of Intercountry Adoption, concluded at the Hague on 29th
May 1993; “ statutory leave ” means leave provided for in Part 9 of the 1996
Order.

3.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  applies to these Regulations
as it applies to an Act of the Assembly (but see regulations 16 to 21); and
the Interpretation Act 1978  shall not apply.

### ENTITLEMENT TO PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT LEAVE


#### Entitlement to parental bereavement leave


4

4.1

An employee is entitled to be absent from work to take parental bereavement
leave if he or she—

4.1.a

satisfies one of the conditions specified in paragraph (2); and

4.1.b

complies with the notice requirements in regulation 6.

4.2

The conditions referred to in paragraph (1) are that, at the date of C’s
death, the employee is—

4.2.a

C’s parent;

4.2.b

C’s natural parent and named in an order made pursuant to section 51A(2)(a) of
the Adoption and Children Act 2002  or section 11(3)(aa) of the Children
(Scotland) Act 1995 , provided that such an order has not subsequently been
revoked or discharged;

4.2.c

a person with whom C has been placed for adoption, for so long as that
placement has not been disrupted, as mentioned in paragraph (3);

4.2.d

an adopter—

4.2.d.i

with whom C was living; and

4.2.d.ii

who has received official notification in respect of C;

4.2.e

an intended parent of C;

4.2.f

C’s parent in fact; or

4.2.g

the partner of P.

4.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(c), a placement has been disrupted—

4.3.a

when C has been returned to the agency under Article 31(3) of the Adoption
(Northern Ireland) Order 1987 ;

4.3.b

when C has been returned under sections 31 to 35 of the Adoption and Children
Act 2002 ;

4.3.c

in Scotland, when C has been returned to the adoption agency, adoption society
or nominated person in accordance with section 25(6) of the Adoption and
Children (Scotland) Act 2007; or

4.3.d

when C’s placement—

4.3.d.i

with a local authority foster parent who is also a prospective adopter in
accordance with section 22C of the Children Act 1989 following consideration
in accordance with subsection (9B)(c) of that section ; or

4.3.d.ii

with a prospective adopter in accordance with section 81 of the Social
Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014;

has been terminated.

4.4

Subject to paragraph (6), a person is C’s parent in fact if that person, for a
continuous period of at least four weeks ending with the day on which C dies—

4.4.a

lived with C in the person’s own home; and

4.4.b

had day to day responsibility for C’s care.

4.5

For the purposes of the continuous period mentioned in paragraph (4), no
account is to be taken of any absences of a temporary or intermittent nature.

4.6

A person is not to be regarded as C’s parent in fact if—

4.6.a

C is in the care of that person in premises in which any parent of C’s, or any
person who is not a parent of C’s but who has responsibility for C, is living;
or

4.6.b

that person was or is entitled to receive remuneration, whether by way of
wages or otherwise, in respect of the care of C.

4.7

A person has responsibility for C, for the purposes of paragraph (6)(a), if
the person has parental responsibility within the meaning of Article 6 of the
Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 .

4.8

For the purposes of paragraph (6)(b), the following payments are not to be
regarded as remuneration—

4.8.a

any fostering fee or allowance paid to an approved foster parent;

4.8.b

payments wholly or mainly intended to reimburse the person for expenses which
arise from, or are expected to arise from, the person’s care of C;

4.8.c

amounts received pursuant to the terms of a will, trust or similar instrument
which makes provision in respect of C’s care.

4.9

In this regulation—

4.9.a

“ P ” means any person who satisfies one of the conditions in paragraph (2)(a)
to (f);

4.9.b

“ partner ” means a person (whether of a different sex or the same sex) who
lives with C and P in an enduring family relationship but is not a relative of
P of a kind specified in sub-paragraph (c);

4.9.c

the relatives of P referred to in sub-paragraph (b) are P’s parent,
grandparent, sister, brother, aunt or uncle;

4.9.d

references to relationships in sub-paragraph (c)—

4.9.d.i

are to relationships of the full blood or half blood or, in the case of an
adopted person, such of those relationships as would exist but for the
adoption; and

4.9.d.ii

include the relationship of a child with his or her adoptive, or former
adoptive, parents;

but do not include any other adoptive relationships.

4.10

Where an employee is eligible to take parental bereavement leave under this
regulation as a result of the death of more than one child, the employee is
entitled to parental bereavement leave in respect of each child.

#### Options in respect of parental bereavement leave


5

5.1

The minimum period of parental bereavement leave which may be taken by an
employee is one week.

5.2

An employee may choose to take either one or two weeks’ parental bereavement
leave.

5.3

Where an employee chooses to take two weeks’ parental bereavement leave, the
weeks need not be consecutive.

5.4

Parental bereavement leave may be taken at any time within the period of 56
weeks beginning with the date of C’s death.

5.5

Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of this regulation are subject to regulation 8.

#### Notice requirements for parental bereavement leave


6

6.1

An employee must give his or her employer notice of his or her intention to
take any absence from work as parental bereavement leave specifying—

6.1.a

the date of C’s death;

6.1.b

the date on which the employee chooses any period of absence to begin; and

6.1.c

whether the employee intends that period of absence to be a period of one or
two weeks’ parental bereavement leave.

6.2

Where any week which an employee intends to be treated as parental bereavement
leave begins within Period A, notice provided for in paragraph (1) must be
given to the employer—

6.2.a

before the employee is due to start work on the employee’s first day of
absence from work in that week; or

6.2.b

in a case where it is not reasonably practicable for the employee to give
notice in accordance with sub-paragraph (a), as soon as is reasonably
practicable.

6.3

Where any week which an employee intends to be treated as parental bereavement
leave begins within Period B, notice provided for in paragraph (1) must be
given to the employer at least one week before the start of that week.

6.4

Where an employee gives notice in accordance with paragraph (2) or (3) to take
a period of parental bereavement leave which includes a week which begins—

6.4.a

in Period A, the employee may cancel that week’s parental bereavement leave by
giving notice to the employer no later than the time on the first day of that
week at which the employee would have been due to start work if the employee
was not taking parental bereavement leave;

6.4.b

in Period B, the employee may cancel that week’s parental bereavement leave by
giving notice to the employer at least one week before the start of that week.

6.5

An employee may not cancel any week of parental bereavement leave which has
already commenced.

6.6

In this regulation—

“ Period A ” means the period of 56 days beginning with the date of C’s death;
“ Period B ” means the period beginning the day after the end of Period A and
ending with the end of the period specified in regulation 5(4).

#### Commencement of parental bereavement leave


7

7.1

An employee’s period of parental bereavement leave begins on the date
specified in his or her notice under regulation 6(1) except where—

7.1.a

he or she has cancelled the week or weeks of parental bereavement leave
specified in that notice in accordance with regulation 6(4); or

7.1.b

paragraph (2) applies.

7.2

In a case where—

7.2.a

the employee notifies his or her employer of the employee’s intention to begin
his or her parental bereavement leave on the same day as notice is given to
his or her employer in accordance with regulation 6(2); and

7.2.b

he or she is already at work on that day;

the employee’s period of parental bereavement leave begins on the day after
that day.

#### Commencement of other statutory leave


8

8.1

This regulation applies where an employee’s period of parental bereavement
leave has commenced in accordance with regulation 7 and, before that period is
due to end, the employee begins another period of statutory leave.

8.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the period of parental bereavement leave ends
immediately before the start of the other period of statutory leave and any
remaining entitlement to parental bereavement leave—

8.2.a

may be taken after the end of the other period of statutory leave (but within
the period specified in regulation 5(4)); and

8.2.b

must be taken in a single consecutive period.

8.3

Where paragraph (1) applies, and the employee chooses, in accordance with
paragraph (2)(a), to take his or her remaining entitlement to parental
bereavement leave after the end of the other period of statutory leave, he or
she must give a separate notice in respect of that remaining entitlement, in
accordance with regulation 6 (other than the requirement under regulation
6(1)(c)).

8.4

Where any remaining entitlement to parental bereavement leave includes part of
a week as a result of paragraph (2), the portion of the remaining entitlement
comprising part of a week will be deemed to be a week for the purposes of the
requirements set out in regulation 6(1) to (5).

### TAKING PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT LEAVE


#### Application of terms and conditions during parental bereavement leave


9

9.1

An employee who takes parental bereavement leave, is, during any period of
leave—

9.1.a

entitled to the benefit of all of the terms and conditions of employment which
would have applied if the employee had not been absent; and

9.1.b

bound by any obligations arising under those terms and conditions, subject
only to the exception in Article 112EB(1)(b) of the 1996 Order .

9.2

In paragraph (1)(a), “ terms and conditions of employment ” has the meaning
given by Article 112EB(2) of the 1996 Order, and accordingly does not include
terms and conditions about remuneration.

9.3

For the purposes of Article 112EB of the 1996 Order, only sums payable to an
employee by way of wages or salary are to be treated as remuneration.

9.4

In the case of accrual of rights under an employment-related benefit scheme
within the meaning given by paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to the Social Security
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989 , nothing in paragraph (1)(a) imposes a
requirement which exceeds the requirements of paragraph 5D  of that Schedule.

#### Right to return after parental bereavement leave


10

10.1

An employee who returns to work after a period of parental bereavement leave
which was—

10.1.a

an isolated period of parental bereavement leave; or

10.1.b

the last of two or more consecutive periods of statutory leave which did not
include any—

10.1.b.i

period of parental leave of more than four weeks; or

10.1.b.ii

period of statutory leave which when added to any other periods of statutory
leave (excluding parental leave) taken in relation to the same child as the
period of parental bereavement leave the employee is returning from means that
the total amount of statutory leave taken in relation to that child totals
more than 26 weeks;

is entitled to return from leave to the job in which the employee was employed
before the absence.

10.2

An employee who returns to work after a period of parental bereavement leave
not falling within the description within paragraph (1)(a) or (b) is entitled
to return from leave to the job in which he or she was employed before the
absence, or, if it is not reasonably practicable for the employer to permit
the employee to return to that job, to another job which is both suitable and
appropriate for the employee to do in the circumstances.

10.3

The reference in paragraphs (1) and (2) to the job in which the employee was
employed before the absence are references to the job in which the employee
was employed—

10.3.a

if the return is from an isolated period of parental bereavement leave,
immediately before that period;

10.3.b

if the return is from consecutive periods of statutory leave, immediately
before the first such period.

10.4

In this regulation, “ parental leave ” means leave under regulation 13(1) of
the Maternity and Parental Leave etc. Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999 .

#### Right to return after parental bereavement leave: supplementary


11

11.1

The right to return under regulation 10 is a right to return—

11.1.a

with the employee’s seniority, pension and similar rights as they would have
been if the employee had not been absent; and

11.1.b

on terms and conditions not less favourable than those which would have
applied if the employee had not been absent.

11.2

In the case of accrual of rights under an employment-related benefit scheme
within the meaning given by paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to the Social Security
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989, nothing in paragraph (1)(a) above imposes a
requirement which exceeds the requirements of paragraphs 5A to 6 of that
Schedule .

#### Protection from detriment


12

12.1

An employee is entitled under Article 70C  of the 1996 Order not to be
subjected to any detriment by any act, or any deliberate failure to act, by an
employer because—

12.1.a

the employee took, sought to take, or made use of the benefits of, parental
bereavement leave; or

12.1.b

the employer believed that the employee was likely to take parental
bereavement leave.

12.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), an employee makes use of the benefits of
parental bereavement leave if, during a period of parental bereavement leave,
the employee benefits from any of the terms and conditions of employment
preserved by regulation 9 during that period.

12.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply where the detriment in question amounts to a
dismissal within the meaning of Part 11 of the 1996 Order.

#### Unfair Dismissal


13

13.1

An employee who is dismissed is entitled under Article 131 of the 1996 Order
to be regarded for the purposes of Part 11 of that Order as unfairly dismissed
if the reason or principal reason for the dismissal is of a kind specified in
paragraph (3).

13.2

An employee who is dismissed is also to be regarded for the purposes of Part
11 of the 1996 Order as unfairly dismissed if—

13.2.a

the reason or principal reason for the dismissal is that the employee was
redundant;

13.2.b

it is shown that the circumstances constituting the redundancy applied equally
to one or more employees in the same undertaking who had positions similar to
that held by the employee and who have not been dismissed by the employer; and

13.2.c

it is shown that the reason or principal reason for which the employee was
selected for dismissal was a reason of a kind specified in paragraph (3).

13.3

The reasons referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) are reasons connected with
any of the following facts—

13.3.a

that the employee took, sought to take, or made use of the benefits of
parental bereavement leave;

13.3.b

that the employer believed that the employee was likely to take parental
bereavement leave.

13.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(a), an employee makes use of the benefits of
parental bereavement leave if, during a period of parental bereavement leave,
the employee benefits from any of the terms and conditions of employment
preserved by regulation 9 during that period.

#### Calculation of a week’s pay for the purposes of Chapter 4 of Part 1 of the 1996 Order


14

Where—

14.a

under Chapter 4 of Part 1 of the 1996 Order, the amount of a week’s pay of an
employee falls to be calculated by reference to the average rate of
remuneration, or the average amount of remuneration, payable to the employee
in respect of a period of 12 weeks ending on a particular date (referred to as
the “ calculation date ”);

14.b

during a week in that period, the employee was absent from work on parental
bereavement leave; and

14.c

remuneration is payable to the employee in respect of that week under their
contract of employment, but the amount payable is less than the amount that
would be payable if he or she were working;

that week must be disregarded for the purpose of the calculation and account
must be taken of remuneration in earlier weeks so as to bring up to 12 the
number of weeks of which account is taken.

### CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS


#### Contractual rights to parental bereavement leave


15

Where an employee is entitled to parental bereavement leave (referred to in
this regulation as “ the statutory right ”) and also to a right which
corresponds to that right and which arises under the employee’s contract of
employment or otherwise—

15.a

the employee may not exercise the statutory right and the corresponding right
separately but may, in taking the leave for which the two rights provide, take
advantage of whichever right is, in any particular respect, the more
favourable; and

15.b

the provisions of the 1996 Order and of these Regulations relating to the
statutory right apply, subject to any modifications necessary to give effect
to any more favourable contractual terms, to the exercise of the composite
right described in sub-paragraph (a) as they apply to the exercise of the
statutory right.

### TRANSITIONAL AND REVOCATION PROVISIONS


#### Transitional provisions


16

The revocation and re-enactment of provisions by these Regulations does not
affect the continuity of the law.

17

17.1

This regulation applies to a reference (expressed or implied) in these
Regulations, any statutory provision, or any other instrument or document, to
a provision of these Regulations.

17.2

The reference is, subject to its context, to be read as being or including a
reference to any or all of the corresponding earlier provisions, in relation
to times, circumstances or purposes in relation to which those earlier
provisions had effect.

17.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), the corresponding earlier provisions are—

17.3.a

the corresponding provision revoked by these Regulations;

17.3.b

the corresponding provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 ;

17.3.c

the corresponding provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 .

18

18.1

This regulation applies to a reference (expressed or implied) in any statutory
provision, or any other instrument or document to—

18.1.a

a provision revoked by these Regulations;

18.1.b

a provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023; or

18.1.c

a provision revoked by the Parental Bereavement Leave (No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2022.

18.2

The reference is, subject to its context, to be read as being or including a
reference to the corresponding provision of these Regulations, in relation to
times, circumstances or purposes in relation to which that provision has
effect.

19

19.1

The revocation of any provision by these Regulations does not affect the
previous operation of that provision, except as provided by regulation 20.

19.2

The revocation by these Regulations of the savings made by regulations 19 and
20 of the Parental Bereavement Leave Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 does
not affect the operation of those savings in so far as they are not
specifically reproduced in these Regulations but remain capable of having
effect.

20

20.1

Anything done, or having effect as if done, under (or for the purposes of or
in reliance on) a provision revoked by these Regulations and in operation or
effective immediately before the time these Regulations come into operation,
has effect after that time as if done instead under (or for the purposes of or
in reliance on) the corresponding provision of these Regulations.

20.2

Any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred
under a provision revoked by these Regulations is to be treated as having
acquired, accrued or incurred instead under the corresponding provision of
these Regulations.

20.3

Any reference in paragraph (1) or (2) to—

20.3.a

a thing done, or having effect as if done, under (or for the purposes of or in
reliance on) a provision revoked by these Regulations, or

20.3.b

a right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred
under a provision revoked by these Regulations,

includes a reference to a thing that has effect as if done under that
provision, or is treated as having been acquired, accrued or incurred under
that provision, by virtue of regulation 20 of the Parental Bereavement Leave
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.

20.4

The revocation of any provision by these Regulations does not affect-

20.4.a

any offence committed against that provision, or any penalty or punishment
incurred in respect thereof, or

20.4.b

any investigation or legal proceeding in respect of any such penalty or
punishment;

and any investigation or legal proceeding in respect of any such penalty or
punishment may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty or
punishment may be imposed, as if the provision had not been revoked.

21

21.1

Regulations 16 to 20 have effect in place of sections 28(2) and 29 of the
Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  (“ 1954 Act ”)

21.2

Nothing in this Part affects any other provision of the 1954 Act.

21.3

In this Part, “instrument” and “statutory provision” have the meaning given to
them by section 1(c) and (f) of the 1954 Act.

#### Revocation


22

The Parental Bereavement Leave Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 are
revoked.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 28th
September 2023. (L.S.) Colin Jack A senior officer of the Department for the
Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers inserted into the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (N.I. 16) (the “ 1996 Order ”)
by the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Act (Northern Ireland)  2022 (c.
5) .

The Regulations revoke and re-enact the provisions of the Parental Bereavement
Leave Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 which would otherwise cease to have
effect by virtue of Article 251(1A) of the Employment Rights (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996.

These Regulations provide for a statutory entitlement for bereaved parents who
are employees to take up to two weeks’ leave from their job called parental
bereavement leave in the 56 weeks following the death of a child.

Part 2 relates to entitlement to parental bereavement leave. The right to take
parental bereavement leave is conferred by regulation 4 which sets out the
conditions for entitlement which must be satisfied by the employee in order to
take parental bereavement leave. These include substantive requirements, such
as the employee falling within the definition of a bereaved parent (in
particular, specifying the types of parental relationships in respect of which
the new entitlement arises), as well as procedural requirements, such as the
employee giving appropriate notices to their employer. Where an employee is
entitled to parental bereavement leave under regulation 4 as the result of the
death of more than one child, the employee is entitled to parental bereavement
leave in respect of each child.

Regulation 5 sets out the number of weeks of parental bereavement leave that
are available to a bereaved parent and gives an employee the option of taking
either one or two weeks’ parental bereavement leave. The weeks taken as
parental bereavement leave do not need to be taken consecutively. It also
provides that parental bereavement leave may only be taken within the period
of 56 weeks beginning with the date of the child’s death.

Regulation 6 details the notice requirements and other information the
bereaved parent must provide to their employer before taking parental
bereavement leave. An employee does not need to provide notice in writing to
his or her employer, but the length of notice required to book and cancel
parental bereavement leave will vary depending on whether the period the
employee intends to take as parental bereavement leave falls within 56 days of
the child’s death or later. Regulations 7 and 8 respectively set out when an
employee’s period of bereavement leave may start and what happens when a
period of parental bereavement leave is interrupted by another type of
statutory leave under Part 9 of the 1996 Order.

Part 3 contains provisions applicable in relation to the taking of parental
bereavement leave. Regulation 9 elaborates on the new Article 112EB of the
1996 Order, by providing that an employee is entitled during his or her
absence on leave to the benefit of all of his or her terms and conditions of
employment apart from the right to remuneration (excluded by Article
112EB(2)(b)); also that the employee is subject to all of the obligations
under those terms and conditions except in so far as they are inconsistent
with the right to take parental bereavement leave (the exception appears in
Article 112EB(1)(b)). Regulations 10 and 11 provide for an employee’s right to
return to work after taking a period of parental bereavement leave,
distinguishing the case where the leave was an isolated period of absence from
the case where it followed another period of statutory leave. Regulations 12
and 13 provide that an employee entitled to parental bereavement leave is
protected from detriment and dismissal attributable to the fact that they took
or sought to take parental bereavement leave.

Part 4 contains provisions applicable where an employee has a contractual
right to parental bereavement leave, in addition to the statutory right
contained within these Regulations.

Part 5 (regulations 16 to 22) contains provisions in respect of the
Transitional arrangements that will ensure a continuity of entitlement between
the revoked Regulations and current Regulations. This part also contains the
revocation of the Parental Bereavement Leave Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2023.

A separate impact assessment has not been prepared for these Regulations. The
Regulations are part of a package of legislative measures and the relevant
impact assessment is the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Bill impact
assessment which was published in April 2020. (  https://www.economy-
ni.gov.uk/sites/default/files/consultations/economy/equality-impact-
assessment-parental-bereavement-leave-and-pay.pdf ).

