Title: The Representation of the People (Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-06-29
Description: These Regulations make provision related to the change in franchise for citizens of the European Union for local government elections in England, and for Police and Crime Commissioner (“PCC”) elections in England and Wales.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1150

## The Representation of the People (Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review) Regulations 2023

    Local Government, England       Police, England And Wales
Representation Of The People, England And Wales       Town And Country
Planning, England

  Made   25th October 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 10ZC(3), 10ZE(4), 13(1), 53(1) and (3), and 201(3) of,
and paragraphs 1(2) and (2A) and 3ZA(1) and (2) of Schedule 2 to, the
Representation of the People Act 1983 , by paragraph 16 of Schedule 4B to the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , and by sections 58(1), (5) and (6) and
154(5) (as extended by section 26(3) of the Welsh Language Act 1993 ) of the
Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 .       The Secretary of
State has consulted the Electoral Commission, in accordance with paragraph
16(5) of Schedule 4B to the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and section
7(1) and (2)(e) and (hc) of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums
Act 2000 .           A draft of these Regulations has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament in accordance with
section 201(2) of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , section 333(3A)
of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , and section 154(2) of the Police
Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011.

### Introduction


#### Citation, commencement, extent and savings


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Representation of the People (Franchise
Amendment and Eligibility Review) Regulations 2023.

1.2

This regulation and regulation  38(3)  come into force on the day after the
day on which they are made, and the remainder of these Regulations comes into
force on 7th May 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.4

The amendments made by—

1.4.a

regulations  32(a)  and  35  do not apply to an application under section
10ZC(1)(a) of the 1983 Act made before 7th May 2024;

1.4.b

regulation  38(3)  do not apply to a business referendum for which the date of
poll, as stated in the notice published in accordance with rule 6 of Schedule
7 to the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012 , is on or
before 6th May 2024.

#### Interpretation


2

In these Regulations—

      “ 1983 Act ” means the Representation of the People Act 1983;
“ 2001 Regulations ” means the Representation of the People (England and
Wales) Regulations 2001 ;           “ 2011 Act ” means the Police Reform and
Social Responsibility Act 2011;           “ 2012 Order ” means the Police and
Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012 ;           “ PCC election ” means an
election of a police and crime commissioner in accordance with Chapter 6 of
Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 ;           “
PCC elections rules ” means the rules set out at Parts 1 to 7 of Schedule 3 to
the 2012 Order.

### Review of registration entitlement of relevant citizens of the Union in England and of eligibility of relevant citizens of the Union to vote in PCC elections in Wales


#### Interpretation


##### Interpretation


3

In this Part—

“ eligibility criteria ” means the criteria for eligibility to vote set out in
section 52(1C) of the 2011 Act ;   “ notice of alteration ” means a notice
under section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B(3), (3B) or (3D) or 13BC(3) or (6) of the
1983 Act;   “ registration criteria ” means the criteria for registration set
out in section 4(3)(c) of the 1983 Act ; “ relevant citizen of the Union ” has
the same meaning as in section 202(1) of the 1983 Act ; “ relevant person ”
means a person who— is a relevant citizen of the Union, and either— on the
coming into force of this Part— is registered in a register of local
government electors in England  or Wales , or the registration officer is
required to enter the applicant in such a register in accordance with section
10ZC(1) of the 1983 Act, or has submitted an application under section 10ZC of
the 1983 Act before the coming into force of this Part, and that application
is granted on or after the coming into force of this Part.

##### Meaning of “address” in specified circumstances


4

4.1

This regulation applies where a relevant person is registered pursuant to—

4.1.a

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act ,

4.1.b

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act , or

4.1.c

a service declaration .

4.2

Where this regulation applies, references in this Part to the relevant
person’s address are to—

4.2.a

for a person who has made a declaration of local connection, the address
stated by the person in that declaration pursuant to section 7B(3)(a)(i) of
the 1983 Act, or the address of the registration officer’s office (as the case
may be);

4.2.b

for a person who is registered pursuant to an application for anonymous entry,
the address given pursuant to regulation 26(1)(b) or 31G(6) of the 2001
Regulations (as the case may be);

4.2.c

for a person who is registered pursuant to a service declaration, the person’s
correspondence address or British Forces Post Office Number.

#### Review of registration entitlement of relevant citizens of the Union in England


##### Duty to determine whether relevant citizens of the Union continue to satisfy the registration criteria


5

5.1

A registration officer appointed for an area in England must determine in
accordance with regulations  6  to  13  whether a relevant person in the
registration officer’s area continues to satisfy the registration criteria.

5.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), a registration officer must make the
determination specified in paragraph (1) by the end of 31st January 2025.

5.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply where at the end of 31st January 2025—

5.3.a

the registration officer has requested information from a relevant person
under regulation  10 , and the date for response specified in that request has
not yet passed,

5.3.b

the 14 day period within which the relevant person may request a review
hearing, following notification from the registration officer pursuant to
regulation  12 , has not yet passed, or

5.3.c

the relevant person has requested a hearing pursuant to regulation  12(2)(d) ,
and

5.3.c.i

the review has not yet been heard, or

5.3.c.ii

the review has been heard but the subject of the review has not been notified
of the outcome of the review,

and in consequence the registration officer has not made a determination.

5.4

Where paragraph (3) applies, the registration officer must make the
determination specified in paragraph (1) as soon as reasonably practicable
after 31st January 2025.

5.5

Nothing in this Chapter prevents a registration officer from reviewing the
eligibility of a relevant person to be or to remain registered in accordance
with section 10ZE of the 1983 Act for reasons other than that they are a
relevant person.

##### Procedure for reviewing entitlement to registration – data-based review


6

6.1

A registration officer appointed for an area in England must conduct a review
in respect of a relevant person, to determine whether that person continues to
satisfy the registration criteria.

6.2

As part of a review under paragraph (1), the registration officer may consider
(amongst other things) any information provided in accordance with regulation
26(1)(fa) of the 2001 Regulations  as part of an application received from a
relevant person pursuant to section 10ZC(1)(a) of the 1983 Act.

##### Procedure for reviewing entitlement to registration – correspondence-based review


7

7.1

Subject to paragraph (2), where a registration officer is not satisfied
following a review under regulation  6  that a relevant person continues to
satisfy the registration criteria, the registration officer must—

7.1.a

give notice to that person containing information specified at paragraph (3)
(a “first review notice”), and

7.1.b

enter the review in the list kept pursuant to regulation 31E of the 2001
Regulations.

7.2

Where the relevant person is registered pursuant to—

7.2.a

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act,

7.2.b

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act, or

7.2.c

a service declaration,

and the date on which the relevant person’s entitlement to remain registered
under (as the case may be) section 7C, 9C or 15 of the 1983 Act  expires is
before the end of 31st January 2025, paragraph (1) is to be read as if for
“must” there were substituted  “may” .

7.3

A first review notice must—

7.3.a

explain that the criteria under section 4 of the 1983 Act by which a citizen
of a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of local
government electors have changed,

7.3.b

state that the registration officer is not certain that the relevant person
remains entitled to be registered, and the grounds for the registration
officer’s opinion,

7.3.c

require that the relevant person provide such further information as specified
in the notice relating to whether that person meets the registration criteria,

7.3.d

provide information on how the relevant person may respond to the request for
information, and

7.3.e

state that it is an offence to provide false information to the registration
officer, and the maximum penalty for that offence.

7.4

Paragraph (5) applies where—

7.4.a

the registration officer sends a first review notice to a relevant person, and

7.4.b

that person does not respond within a reasonable time from the date on which
that notice is sent.

7.5

Where this paragraph applies, the registration officer must give a further
notice to the relevant person, setting out the same information as at
paragraph (3) (a “second review notice”).

7.6

Subject to paragraph (7), a first or second review notice may be given to a
relevant person either—

7.6.a

by sending it to the person’s address, or

7.6.b

by electronic means.

7.7

Where the first review notice was given to a relevant person by electronic
means, the second review notice must be sent to the person’s address.

7.8

The registration officer may contact the relevant person, either by telephone
or by visiting the address to which a first or second review notice was
delivered, to—

7.8.a

obtain information requested in the notice, or

7.8.b

encourage the relevant person to provide the information requested.

##### Notification of possible removal in the event of non-response


8

8.1

This regulation applies where—

8.1.a

the registration officer has given first and second review notices to a
relevant person, and

8.1.b

the relevant person has not responded within a reasonable time from the date
of the second review notice.

8.2

Where this regulation applies, the registration officer must send a notice to
the relevant person (a “notification of possible removal”) which must—

8.2.a

include the information set out in regulation  7(3) ,

8.2.b

state the date of issue of the notice, and

8.2.c

state that if within 14 days beginning with the date of issue the registration
officer has not received the information requested—

8.2.c.i

the registration officer may determine the review and remove the person’s
entry from the register, and

8.2.c.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the registration
officer’s determination in those circumstances.

8.3

A notification of possible removal must be delivered to the relevant person by
paper communication to the person’s address, accompanied by a pre-addressed
reply envelope, return postage of which must be prepaid.

##### Requirement to attempt personal contact with relevant person


9

9.1

This regulation applies where—

9.1.a

a registration officer has issued a notification of possible removal to a
relevant person,

9.1.b

the relevant person is not registered pursuant to—

9.1.b.i

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act,

9.1.b.ii

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act, or

9.1.b.iii

a service declaration,

9.1.c

the relevant person has not responded to the notification of possible removal,
and

9.1.d

the registration officer has not previously attempted to contact the relevant
person by telephone or by visiting the address.

9.2

Where this regulation applies, within 7 days beginning with the date of issue
of the notification of possible removal, the registration officer must attempt
to contact the relevant person, either by telephone or by visiting the
address, to—

9.2.a

obtain information requested in the notification, or

9.2.b

encourage the relevant person to provide the information requested.

9.3

Where this regulation applies, a registration officer must not determine that
the relevant person has ceased to satisfy the registration criteria before the
registration officer has attempted to contact the relevant person in
accordance with paragraph (2).

9.4

In this regulation, the “ address ” means the address to which the first or
second review notice under regulation  7(1)  or (5) was delivered.

##### Request for further information


10

10.1

The registration officer may request further information from a relevant
person, including information that may be requested of an applicant for
registration under regulation 26B(10A) to 26B(10C), and regulation 26BB, of
the 2001 Regulations , where—

10.1.a

the registration officer has sent a first or second review notice or
notification of possible removal to the relevant person, and

10.1.b

the relevant person has responded but the registration officer considers
further information is necessary for the officer to be satisfied that the
relevant person satisfies the registration criteria.

10.2

A request for further information pursuant to paragraph (1) may be given to
the relevant person by sending it to the person’s address, or by electronic
means, and must state that if by a specified date that is a reasonable time
after the request was issued the registration officer has not received the
information requested—

10.2.a

the registration officer may determine the review and remove the person’s
entry from the register, and

10.2.b

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the registration
officer’s determination in those circumstances.

##### Confirmation of continued registration following review


11

11.1

Where, in accordance with this Chapter, a registration officer determines that
the relevant person continues to satisfy the registration criteria, the
registration officer must—

11.1.a

send a confirmation notice to that person in accordance with paragraph (2),
and

11.1.b

mark that person’s name in accordance with regulation 42(3C) of the 2001
Regulations .

11.2

A confirmation notice under paragraph (1) must—

11.2.a

be sent to the person’s address, or by electronic means,

11.2.b

state that the criteria under section 4 of the 1983 Act by which a citizen of
a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of local
government electors have changed, and

11.2.c

state that the registration officer has determined that the relevant person
continues to satisfy those criteria.

11.3

The requirement under regulation 36(2)(b) of the 2001 Regulations for the
registration officer to send a copy of a notice of alteration to any person
affected by its contents does not apply in respect of a notice of alteration
resulting from the determination mentioned in paragraph (1).

##### Procedure for removal following response to communications


12

12.1

This regulation applies where—

12.1.a

a relevant person has responded to a notice, notification or request under
regulations  7  to  10  or has provided requested information in response to
the registration officer making contact with that person, and

12.1.b

the registration officer is not satisfied that the relevant person continues
to satisfy the registration criteria.

12.2

The registration officer must send a notice to the relevant person’s address,
which must—

12.2.a

state the date of issue of the notice,

12.2.b

advise that the criteria under section 4 of the 1983 Act by which a citizen of
a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of local
government electors have changed,

12.2.c

state that the registration officer is of the opinion that the relevant person
has ceased to satisfy the registration criteria, and the grounds for the
registration officer’s opinion,

12.2.d

state that if the relevant person does not notify the registration officer
within 14 days beginning with the date of issue that the relevant person
requires the review to be heard—

12.2.d.i

the registration officer may determine the review and remove the relevant
person’s entry from the register, and

12.2.d.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the registration
officer’s determination in those circumstances, and

12.2.e

state that after 14 days beginning with the date of issue, the relevant person
can contact the registration officer to find out if the registration officer
has removed the relevant person’s entry from the register.

12.3

The relevant person is entitled to require the review to be heard by notifying
the registration officer within 14 days beginning with the date of issue of
the notice sent under paragraph (2), and where the relevant person does so the
following provisions of the 2001 Regulations apply—

12.3.a

regulation 31F(2) to (7), and

12.3.b

regulation 31FZA(1), which applies as if the reference to regulation 31D(2)
were a reference to a notice under paragraph (2).

12.4

Where—

12.4.a

the registration officer has delivered the notice under paragraph (2), and

12.4.b

the relevant person has not requested a hearing within 14 days beginning with
the date of issue of the notice,

the registration officer may determine that the relevant person has ceased to
satisfy the registration criteria and, if so, remove the relevant person’s
entry from the register.

12.5

The requirement under regulation 36(2)(b) of the 2001 Regulations for the
registration officer to send a copy of a notice of alteration to any person
affected by its contents does not apply in respect of a notice of alteration
resulting from the determination mentioned in paragraph (4).

##### Confirmation of ceased registration following non-response to communications


13

13.1

This regulation applies where a relevant person does not respond—

13.1.a

to a notification of possible removal, within the period of 14 days beginning
with the date of issue of that notification, or

13.1.b

to a request for further information following a notification of possible
removal, by the specified date in that request.

13.2

Where this regulation applies—

13.2.a

the registration officer may determine that the relevant person has ceased to
satisfy the registration criteria, and

13.2.b

if the registration officer does so, the registration officer must—

13.2.b.i

send a notification to the relevant person’s address, containing the
information set out in paragraph (3), and

13.2.b.ii

remove the relevant person’s entry from the register.

13.3

A notification under paragraph (2) must—

13.3.a

advise that the criteria under section 4 of the 1983 Act by which a citizen of
a member State is eligible to be registered in the register of local
government electors have changed,

13.3.b

state that the registration officer has determined that the relevant person
does not satisfy those criteria, and the registration officer’s reasoning for
that determination,

13.3.c

state that there is no right of appeal against that determination,

13.3.d

state that the relevant person may apply to register again if they consider
they are eligible to do so, and

13.3.e

be accompanied by an electoral registration application form under regulation
26(3) of the 2001 Regulations and by a pre-addressed reply envelope the
postage of which has been pre-paid.

13.4

The requirement under regulation 36(2)(b) of the 2001 Regulations for the
registration officer to send a copy of a notice of alteration to any person
affected by its contents does not apply in respect of a notice of alteration
resulting from the determination mentioned in paragraph (2)(a).

#### Review of eligibility of relevant citizens of the Union to vote in a PCC election in Wales


##### Duty to determine whether relevant citizens of the Union continue to satisfy eligibility criteria


14

14.1

A registration officer appointed for an area in Wales must determine in
accordance with this Chapter whether a relevant person continues to satisfy
the eligibility criteria.

14.2

Subject to paragraph  (3) , a registration officer must make the determination
specified in paragraph (1) by the end of 31st January 2025.

14.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply when at the end of 31st January 2025—

14.3.a

a registration officer has requested information from a relevant person under
regulation  19(1) , and the date for response specified in that request has
not yet passed, or

14.3.b

the 14 day period within which the relevant person may request a review
hearing, following notification from the registration officer pursuant to
regulation  21(2) , has not yet passed,

14.3.c

the relevant person has requested a hearing pursuant to regulation  21(2) (e),
and

14.3.c.i

the review has not been heard, or

14.3.c.ii

the review has been heard but the subject of the review has not been notified
of the outcome of the review,

and in consequence the registration officer has not made a determination.

14.4

Where paragraph  (3)  applies, the registration officer must discharge the
functions specified in paragraph  (1)  as soon as reasonably practicable after
31st January 2025.

##### Procedure for reviewing eligibility to vote in a PCC election – data-based review


15

15.1

A registration officer in Wales must conduct a review in respect of a relevant
person, to determine whether that person continues to satisfy the eligibility
criteria.

15.2

As part of a review under paragraph  (1) , the registration officer may
consider (amongst other things) any information provided in accordance with
regulation 26(1)(fa) of the 2001 Regulations as part of an application
received from a relevant person pursuant to section 10ZC(1)(a) of the 1983
Act.

##### Procedure for reviewing eligibility to vote in a PCC election – correspondence-based review


16

16.1

Subject to paragraph (2), where a registration officer is not satisfied
following a review under regulation  15(1)  that the relevant person continues
to satisfy the eligibility criteria, the registration officer must—

16.1.a

give notice to that person containing information specified at paragraph  (2)
(a “first review notice”), and

16.1.b

enter the review in the list kept pursuant to regulation 31E of the 2001
Regulations.

16.2

Where the relevant person is registered pursuant to an application for
anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act and the date on which the
relevant person’s entitlement to remain registered under section 9C of the
1983 Act expires is before the end of 31st January 2025, paragraph (1) is to
be read as if for “must” there were substituted  “may” .

16.3

A first review notice must—

16.3.a

explain that the criteria under section 52 of the 2011 Act by which a citizen
of a member State is eligible to vote in a PCC election have changed,

16.3.b

state that eligibility to vote in PCC elections in Wales is unrelated to
eligibility to register and vote in local government elections in Wales,

16.3.c

state that the registration officer is not certain that the relevant person
remains eligible to vote in a PCC election, and the grounds for the
registration officer’s opinion,

16.3.d

require that the relevant person provide such further information as specified
in the notice relating to whether that person meets the eligibility criteria,

16.3.e

provide information on how the relevant person may respond to the request for
information, and

16.3.f

state that it is an offence to provide false information to the registration
officer, and the maximum penalty for that offence.

16.4

Paragraph  (5)  applies where—

16.4.a

the registration officer sends to a relevant person a first review notice, and

16.4.b

that person does not respond within a reasonable time from the date on which
that notice is sent.

16.5

Where this paragraph applies, the registration officer must give a further
notice to the relevant person, setting out the same information as at
paragraph  (2)  (a “second review notice”).

16.6

Subject to paragraph (7), a first or second review notice may be given to a
relevant person either—

16.6.a

by sending it to the person’s address, or

16.6.b

by electronic means.

16.7

Where the first review notice was given to a relevant person by electronic
means, the second review notice must be sent to the person’s address.

16.8

The registration officer may contact the relevant person, either by telephone
or by visiting the address to which a first or second review notice was
delivered, to—

16.8.a

obtain information requested in the notice, or

16.8.b

encourage the relevant person to provide the information requested.

##### Notification of possible ineligibility in the event of non-response


17

17.1

This regulation applies where—

17.1.a

the registration officer has given first and second review notices to a
relevant person, and

17.1.b

the relevant person has not responded within a reasonable time from the date
of the second review notice.

17.2

Where this regulation applies, the registration officer must send a notice to
a relevant person (a “notification of possible ineligibility”) which must—

17.2.a

include the information set out in regulation  16(3) ,

17.2.b

state the date of issue of the notice, and

17.2.c

state that if within 14 days beginning with the date of issue the registration
officer has not received the information requested—

17.2.c.i

the registration officer may determine that the person is no longer eligible
to vote in a PCC election, and

17.2.c.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the registration
officer’s determination in those circumstances.

17.3

A notification of possible ineligibility must be delivered to the relevant
person by paper communication to the person’s address, accompanied by a pre-
addressed reply envelope, return postage of which must be prepaid.

##### Requirement to attempt personal contact with relevant person


18

18.1

This regulation applies where—

18.1.a

a registration officer has issued a notification of possible ineligibility to
a relevant person,

18.1.b

the relevant person is not registered pursuant to—

18.1.b.i

a declaration of local connection under section 7B of the 1983 Act,

18.1.b.ii

an application for anonymous entry under section 9B of the 1983 Act, or

18.1.b.iii

a service declaration,

18.1.c

the relevant person is aged 16 or over,

18.1.d

the relevant person has not responded to the notification of possible
ineligibility, and

18.1.e

the registration officer has not previously attempted to contact the relevant
person by telephone or by visiting the address.

18.2

Where this regulation applies, within 7 days beginning with the date of issue
of a notification of possible ineligibility the registration officer must
attempt to contact the relevant person either by telephone or by visiting the
address, to—

18.2.a

obtain information requested in the notification, or

18.2.b

encourage the relevant person to provide the information requested.

18.3

Where this regulation applies, a registration officer must not determine that
the relevant person has ceased to satisfy the eligibility criteria before the
registration officer has attempted to contact the relevant person in
accordance with paragraph (2).

18.4

In this regulation, the “ address ” means the address to which the first or
second review notice under regulation  16(1)  or (5) was delivered.

##### Request for further information


19

19.1

The registration officer may request further information from a relevant
person, including information that may be requested of an applicant for
registration under regulation 26BA and 26BB of the 2001 Regulations , where—

19.1.a

the registration officer has sent a first or second review notice or
notification of possible ineligibility to the relevant person, and

19.1.b

the relevant person has responded but the registration officer considers
further information is necessary for the officer to be satisfied that the
relevant person satisfies the eligibility criteria.

19.2

A request for further information pursuant to paragraph (1) may be given to
the relevant person by sending it to the person’s address, or by electronic
means, and must—

19.2.a

state that eligibility to vote in PCC elections in Wales is unrelated to
eligibility to register and vote in local government elections in Wales,

19.2.b

state that if by a specified date that is a reasonable time after the request
was issued the registration officer has not received the information
requested—

19.2.b.i

the registration officer may determine that the relevant person has ceased to
satisfy the eligibility criteria, and

19.2.b.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the registration
officer’s determination in those circumstances.

##### Confirmation of continued eligibility following review


20

20.1

Where, in accordance with this Chapter, a registration officer determines that
the relevant person continues to satisfy the eligibility criteria, the
registration officer must—

20.1.a

send a confirmation notice to that person in accordance with paragraph (2),
and

20.1.b

mark the person’s name in accordance with regulation 42(3B) of the 2001
Regulations .

20.2

A confirmation notice under paragraph (1) must—

20.2.a

be sent to the person’s address, or by electronic means,

20.2.b

state that eligibility criteria under section 52(1C) of the 2011 Act for a
citizen of a member State to vote in PCC elections have changed,

20.2.c

state that eligibility to vote in PCC elections in Wales is unrelated to
eligibility to register and vote in local government elections in Wales, and

20.2.d

state that the registration officer has determined that the relevant person
continues to satisfy those criteria.

20.3

The requirement under regulation 36(2)(b) of the 2001 Regulations for the
registration officer to send a copy of a notice of alteration to any person
affected by its contents does not apply in respect of a notice of alteration
resulting from the determination mentioned in paragraph (1).

##### Procedure for determination of ineligibility following response to communications


21

21.1

This regulation applies where—

21.1.a

a relevant person has responded to a notice, notification or request under
regulations  16  to  19  or has provided requested information in response to
the registration officer making contact with that person, and

21.1.b

the registration officer is not satisfied that the relevant person continues
to satisfy the eligibility criteria.

21.2

The registration officer must send a notice to the relevant person’s address,
which must—

21.2.a

state the date of issue of the notice,

21.2.b

advise that eligibility criteria under section 52 of the 2011 Act for a
citizen of a member State to vote in PCC elections have changed,

21.2.c

state that the registration officer is of the opinion that the relevant person
has ceased to satisfy the eligibility criteria, and the grounds for the
registration officer’s opinion,

21.2.d

state that eligibility to vote in PCC elections in Wales is unrelated to
eligibility to register and vote in local government elections in Wales,

21.2.e

state that if the relevant person does not notify the registration officer
within 14 days beginning with the date of issue that the relevant person
requires the review to be heard—

21.2.e.i

the registration officer may determine that the relevant person is not
eligible to vote in a PCC election, and

21.2.e.ii

the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the registration
officer’s determination in those circumstances.

21.3

The relevant person is entitled to require the review to be heard by notifying
the registration officer within 14 days beginning with the date of issue of
the notice sent under paragraph (2), and where the relevant person does so the
following provisions of the 2001 Regulations apply—

21.3.a

regulation 31F(2) to (7), and

21.3.b

regulation 31FZA(1), which applies as if the reference to regulation 31D(2)
were a reference to a notice under paragraph  (2) .

21.4

The registration officer may determine that the relevant person has ceased to
satisfy the eligibility criteria where—

21.4.a

the registration officer has delivered the notice under paragraph  (2) , and

21.4.b

the relevant person has not requested a hearing within 14 days beginning with
the date of that notice.

##### Confirmation of ceased eligibility following non-response to communications


22

22.1

This regulation applies where a relevant person does not respond—

22.1.a

to a notification of possible ineligibility within the period of 14 days
beginning with the date of issue of that notification, or

22.1.b

to a request for further information by the specified date in that request.

22.2

Where this regulation applies, the registration officer—

22.2.a

may determine that the relevant person has ceased to satisfy the eligibility
criteria, and

22.2.b

if the registration officer does so, must send a notification to the relevant
person’s address, containing the information set out in paragraph (3).

22.3

A notification under paragraph (2) must—

22.3.a

advise that eligibility criteria under section 52 of the 2011 Act for a
citizen of a member State to vote in PCC elections have changed,

22.3.b

state that eligibility to vote in PCC elections in Wales is unrelated to
eligibility to register and vote in local government elections in Wales,

22.3.c

state that the registration officer has determined that the relevant person
does not satisfy those criteria, and the registration officer’s reasoning for
that determination,

22.3.d

state that there is no right of appeal against that determination.

##### Eligibility appeals


23

Paragraph 4 of Schedule A1 to the 2012 Order (eligibility appeals)  applies in
respect of a determination under this Chapter that a relevant person has
ceased to satisfy the eligibility criteria as it applies to such a
determination under that Schedule.

#### Supplementary provisions for Chapters 2 and 3


##### Applications to register during correspondence-based review


24

24.1

This regulation applies where a registration officer receives an application
from a relevant person pursuant to section 10ZC(1)(a) of the 1983 Act —

24.1.a

following the sending of a first or second review notice, notification of
possible removal or request for further information to that relevant person in
accordance with Chapter 2, and

24.1.b

before the registration officer has—

24.1.b.i

issued a notice pursuant to regulation  11(1)  or  13(2) , or

24.1.b.ii

made a determination pursuant to regulation 12(4).

24.2

This regulation also applies where a registration officer receives an
application from a relevant person pursuant to section 10ZC(1)(a) of the 1983
Act—

24.2.a

following the sending of a first or second notice of review, notification of
possible ineligibility, or request for further information to that relevant
person in accordance with Chapter 3, and

24.2.b

before the registration officer has—

24.2.b.i

issued a notice pursuant to regulation  20(1) , or  22(2) , or

24.2.b.ii

made a determination pursuant to regulation 21(4).

24.3

The registration officer must treat information provided within the
application in relation to regulation 26(1)(fa) of the 2001 Regulations as a
response to a review notice, notification of possible removal or ineligibility
or request for information (as the case may be).

##### Information about operation of procedures for reviewing entitlement to registration


25

25.1

As soon as practicable after 31st January 2025, a registration officer in
England must supply to the Electoral Commission the information required by
paragraph (2).

25.2

The information referred to in paragraph (1) must be contained in a document
which must state the name of the area in respect of which the registration
officer has been appointed, and must list the following in respect of that
area—

25.2.a

the number of relevant persons reviewed pursuant to regulation  6 ,

25.2.b

the number of relevant persons to whom a confirmation notice was sent pursuant
to regulation  11  following the review pursuant to regulation  6 , and of
those—

25.2.b.i

the number of qualifying EU citizens , and

25.2.b.ii

the number of EU citizens with retained rights ,

25.2.c

the respective numbers of relevant persons who received—

25.2.c.i

a first review notice pursuant to regulation  7(1) ,

25.2.c.ii

a second review notice pursuant to regulation  7(5) , or

25.2.c.iii

a notification of possible removal pursuant to regulation  8(2) ,

25.2.d

the number of relevant persons who received a request for further information
pursuant to regulation  10 ,

25.2.e

the number of relevant persons treated as having responded to a first or
second review notice, notification of possible removal, or request for further
information by way of application to register, in accordance with regulation
24 ,

25.2.f

the number of relevant persons to whom a confirmation notice was sent pursuant
to regulation  11  following a notice, notification or request under
regulations  7  to  10 ,

25.2.g

the number of relevant persons to whom regulation  7(2)  applies and whose
eligibility to remain registered was determined by the registration officer in
accordance with Chapter 2, and of those—

25.2.g.i

the number of qualifying EU citizens, and

25.2.g.ii

the number of EU citizens with retained rights,

25.2.h

the number of relevant persons to whom a notice was delivered pursuant to
regulation  12(2) ,

25.2.i

the number of relevant persons who requested a review hearing pursuant to
regulation  12(2)(d) ,

25.2.j

the number of relevant persons to whom a notification was delivered pursuant
to regulation  13(2)(b)(i) ,

25.2.k

the number of relevant persons whose eligibility to remain registered was
reviewed other than in accordance with these Regulations, between the coming
into force of this regulation and the end of 31st January 2025, and

25.2.l

the number of persons registered as qualifying EU citizens or as EU citizens
with retained rights as at the end of 31st January 2025.

##### Information about operation of procedures for reviewing eligibility to vote in PCC elections


26

26.1

As soon as practicable after 31st January 2025, a registration officer in
Wales must supply to the Electoral Commission the information required by sub-
paragraph (2).

26.2

The information referred to in paragraph (1) must be contained in a document
which must state the name of the area in respect of which the registration
officer has been appointed, and must list the following in respect of that
area—

26.2.a

the number of relevant persons reviewed pursuant to regulation  15(1) ,

26.2.b

the number of relevant persons to whom a confirmation notice was sent pursuant
to regulation  20(1) , following the review pursuant to regulation  15(1) ,
and of those—

26.2.b.i

the number of qualifying EU citizens, and

26.2.b.ii

the number of EU citizens with retained rights,

26.2.c

the respective number of persons who, in the course of a correspondence-based
review pursuant to these Regulations, received—

26.2.c.i

first review notice pursuant to regulation  16(1) ,

26.2.c.ii

second review notice pursuant to regulation  16(5) , or

26.2.c.iii

notification of possible ineligibility pursuant to regulation  17(2) ,

26.2.d

the number of relevant persons who received a request for further information
pursuant to regulation  19(1) ,

26.2.e

the number of relevant persons treated as having responded to a first or
second review notice, notification of possible ineligibility, or request for
further information by way of application to register, in accordance with
regulation  24 ,

26.2.f

the number of relevant persons to whom a confirmation notice was sent pursuant
to regulation  20(1)  following a notice, notification or request under
regulations  16  to  19 ,

26.2.g

the number of relevant persons to whom   regulation 16(2)   applies and whose
eligibility to remain registered was determined by the registration officer in
accordance with Chapter 3, and of those—

26.2.g.i

the number of qualifying EU citizens, and

26.2.g.ii

the number of EU citizens with retained rights,

26.2.h

the number of relevant persons to whom a notice was delivered pursuant to
regulation  21(1) ,

26.2.i

the number of relevant persons who requested a review hearing pursuant to
regulation  21(2) (e),

26.2.j

the number of persons to whom a notification was delivered pursuant to
regulation  22(2) , and

26.2.k

the number of persons registered as qualifying EU citizens or as EU citizens
with retained rights as at the end of 31st January 2025.

##### Electoral Commission requirements


27

27.1

The Electoral Commission must—

27.1.a

design communications and notices to be used by registration officers under—

27.1.a.i

regulations  7(1)(a) ,  8(2) ,  11(1)(a) ,  12(2)  and  13(2)(b)(i) , and

27.1.a.ii

regulations  16(1)(a) ,  17(2) ,  20(1)(a) ,  21(2) , and  22(2) ,

27.1.b

obtain the approval of the Secretary of State to the communications and
notices, and

27.1.c

having obtained that approval, make the communications and notices available
to registration officers.

27.2

Before giving approval in respect of the design of any communication or notice
referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), the Secretary of State must consult the
Welsh Ministers.

### Additional provision related to the franchise change for EU citizens


#### Date for publication of revised registers for 2024


28

28.1

This regulation applies to the requirement under section 13(1)(a) of the 1983
Act for registration officers to publish, for 2024, revised versions of—

28.1.a

the registers maintained in respect of areas in England under section 9(1)(a)
and (b) of the 1983 Act ;

28.1.b

the registers maintained in respect of areas in Wales under section 9(1)(a) of
that Act.

28.2

The date for the end of the period described in section 13(1) of the 1983 Act,
being the period during which the revised registers must be published, is 1st
February 2025.

#### Eligibility to vote in election to fill vacancy in office of commissioner: transitional provision


29

29.1

This paragraph applies in respect of a PCC election held in a police area in
Wales under section 51 of the 2011 Act (election to fill vacancy in office of
commissioner)  for which notice of election pursuant to the PCC elections
rules  is published on or before the end of 31st January 2025.

29.2

For the purposes of that election, article 2(1) of the 2012 Order applies as
if—

29.2.a

in the definition of “register of electors”, for sub-paragraph (b)(ii) there
were substituted—

29.2.a.ii

in the case of peers disqualified from voting as an elector at parliamentary
elections and relevant citizens of the Union, qualifying EU citizens and EU
citizens with retained rights  who will have attained the age of 18 on the
date of the poll, the register of local government electors;

;

29.2.b

after the definition of “registration officer” there were inserted—

      “ relevant citizen of the Union ” means a citizen of a member State—
who is a relevant person for the purposes of Part 2 of the Representation of
the People (Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review) Regulations 2023, and
on the date on which notice of election is published, a review of eligibility
under Chapter 3 of that Part has not been completed;

.

### Amendments relating to applications to register by qualifying EU citizens and EU citizens with retained rights


#### Amendment of the 2001 Regulations


30

The 2001 Regulations are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 3 (interpretation)


31

In regulation 3 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

31.a

after the definition of “overseas elector” insert—

      “ PCC election ” means an election of a police and crime commissioner in
accordance with Chapter 6 of Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011;

;

31.b

after the definition of “relevant contact details” insert—

      “ relevant EU applicant ” means an applicant who is a citizen of a
member State that is not listed in Schedule 6A to the 1983 Act , other than a
citizen of Cyprus, Malta or the Republic of Ireland;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 26 (applications for registration)


32

In regulation 26 (applications for registration)—

32.a

in paragraph (1), after sub-paragraph (f), insert—

32.a.fa

in the case of a relevant EU applicant, an indication as to whether the
applicant meets the requirements set out in section 203B of the 1983 Act ;

;

32.b

in paragraph (3), for sub-paragraphs (b) and (ba) substitute—

32.b.b

a statement that persons without lawful immigration status are ineligible to
register to vote, that registration officers may request checks in relation to
an applicant’s immigration status against Home Office records, and that, for
persons applying to register as EU citizens with retained rights only, this
may include checks in relation to historical immigration status;

32.b.ba

a statement that the following are ineligible to register to vote as local
government electors—

32.b.ba.i

in relation to registration in England, persons who are not Commonwealth
citizens, citizens of the Republic of Ireland, qualifying EU citizens or EU
citizen with retained rights, or

32.b.ba.ii

in relation to registration in Wales, persons who are not Commonwealth
citizens, citizens of the Republic of Ireland, relevant citizens of the Union
or qualifying foreign citizens;

32.b.bb

a statement that registration officers may require the applicant to provide
additional information in relation to nationality, may carry out checks
against Government records, and that, for persons applying to register as EU
citizens with retained rights only, this may include checks in relation to
historical nationality;

32.b.bc

a statement that, for applicants in Wales, the application requirement under
paragraph (1)(fa) is relevant only in relation to eligibility to vote in PCC
elections and not in relation to entitlement to register under section 4 of
the 1983 Act;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 26B (power to request additional evidence where certain information is unavailable or where the registration officer considers it necessary)


33

In regulation 26B (power to request additional evidence where certain
information is unavailable or where the registration officer considers it
necessary), before paragraph (11) insert—

33.10A

In relation to the registration of local government electors in England, where
a registration officer considers that additional evidence is necessary in
order to determine whether the applicant is a qualifying EU citizen or an EU
citizen with retained rights, the registration officer may require that the
applicant provide them with one or both of the following—

33.10A.a

information enabling the registration officer to verify the applicant’s
current or historical immigration status by electronic means, or

33.10A.b

a letter or document issued by the Home Office which indicates the current or
historical immigration status of the applicant.

33.10B

Where a registration officer has requested additional evidence under paragraph
(10A) to determine whether a relevant EU applicant is an EU citizen with
retained rights and either—

33.10B.a

the applicant is not able to provide the requested information, or

33.10B.b

otherwise, the registration officer considers it appropriate,

the registration officer may request a statement of eligibility from the
applicant.

33.10C

A statement of eligibility under paragraph (10B) must be in writing and—

33.10C.a

must include—

33.10C.a.i

the applicant’s full name, date of birth, and the address in respect of which
the applicant applies to be registered,

33.10C.a.ii

the applicant’s full name as at IP completion day and, if different from the
name provided under paragraph (i), an explanation for that difference,

33.10C.a.iii

confirmation that the applicant is aware that it is an offence to provide
false information to the registration officer, and of the maximum penalty for
that offence, and

33.10C.a.iv

the date on which it was made;

33.10C.b

must, where required by the registration officer, also include any or all of
the following—

33.10C.b.i

the date on which the applicant initially resided in the United Kingdom,

33.10C.b.ii

the nationality of the applicant as at IP completion day,

33.10C.b.iii

the immigration status held by the applicant as at IP completion day,

33.10C.b.iv

the applicant’s current immigration status,

33.10C.b.v

details of any other forms of immigration status held by the applicant since
IP completion day,

33.10C.b.vi

details of any addresses in the United Kingdom at which the applicant has
resided since IP completion day, and

33.10C.c

may include any other information or be accompanied by any documentary
evidence relating to the applicant’s status as an EU citizen with retained
rights.

.

#### New regulations 26BA (EU citizens: power to request additional evidence of immigration status or historical residency for purposes of determining eligibility to vote in a PCC election in Wales) and 26BB (EU citizens: power to request additional evidence as to change of name)


34

After regulation 26B insert—

######## EU citizens: power to request additional evidence of immigration status or historical residency for purposes of determining eligibility to vote in a PCC election in Wales


34.26BA

34.26BA.1

Where a registration officer considers that additional evidence is necessary
in order to determine whether a person who is a citizen of a member State and
who makes an application under section 10ZC of the 1983 Act in Wales is
eligible to vote in a PCC election, the registration officer may require that
person to provide the registration officer with one or both of the following—

34.26BA.1.a

information enabling the registration officer to verify the person’s current
or historical immigration status by electronic means;

34.26BA.1.b

a letter or document issued by the Home Office which indicates the current or
historical immigration status of the person.

34.26BA.2

Paragraphs (10B) and (10C) of regulation 26B apply following a request under
paragraph (1) as they apply following a request under paragraph (10A) of that
regulation.

######## EU citizens: power to request additional evidence as to change of name


34.26BB

34.26BB.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

34.26BB.1.a

a person has made an application under section 10ZC of the 1983 Act to
register as a local government elector, and

34.26BB.1.b

the applicant’s name on an electronic certificate or document provided in
accordance with regulation 26B(10A) to (10C) or 26BA is different from the
name provided in accordance with regulation 26(1)(a).

34.26BB.2

Where this paragraph applies, the registration officer may require the
applicant to provide—

34.26BB.2.a

an explanation as to the difference in name, and

34.26BB.2.b

such other evidence as the officer considers appropriate that confirms the
change of the applicant’s name.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 42 (marking of names)


35

In regulation 42 (marking of names)—

35.a

in paragraph (3)—

35.a.i

for “To” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (3B), to” ;

35.a.ii

after “electors” insert  “in Wales” ;

35.b

after paragraph (3A), insert—

35.b.3B

To indicate that a relevant citizen of the Union who is registered only in the
register of local government electors in Wales is also a qualifying EU citizen
or an EU citizen with retained rights, the letter “B” shall be placed against
the person’s entry.

35.b.3C

To indicate that a qualifying EU citizen or an EU citizen with retained rights
is registered only in the register of local government electors in England,
the letter “B” shall be placed against the person’s entry.

.

### Amendments relating to Police and Crime Commissioner elections


#### Amendment of the 2012 Order


36

36.1

The 2012 Order is amended as follows.

36.2

In article 2 (interpretation), in the definition of “register of electors”, in
sub-paragraph (b), for “relevant citizens of the Union” substitute
“qualifying EU citizens and EU citizens with retained rights” .

36.3

Before article 4 (effect of register of electors) insert—

########## Procedure for reviewing voter eligibility in PCC election in Wales


36.3.3A

Schedule A1 (procedure for reviewing voter eligibility to vote in PCC
elections in Wales) has effect in relation to PCC elections in Wales.

.

36.4

In article 4 for paragraph (4)(b)(iii) substitute—

36.4.iii

a qualifying EU citizen or an EU citizen with retained rights;

.

36.5

Before Schedule 1 (supply of register) insert the new Schedule A1 as set out
in Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

36.6

In Schedule 2 (absent voting in PCC elections), in Part 4 (forms referred to
in Parts 1 to 3 of this Schedule), for form 1 (proxy paper at particular PCC
election) substitute the corresponding form in Schedule 2 to these
Regulations.

#### Amendment of the Police and Crime Commissioner (Welsh Forms) Order 2021


37

In Schedule 3 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms)
Order 2021 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms) , for form 1
(proxy paper) substitute the corresponding form in Schedule 3 to these
Regulations.

### Amendments relating to business referendums


#### Amendment of the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012


38

38.1

Schedule 6 to the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) is amended as follows.

38.2

In paragraph 1 (interpretation)—

38.2.a

omit the definitions of “citizen of the European Union” and “qualifying
Commonwealth citizen”;

38.2.b

for the definition of “qualifying citizen” substitute—

      “ qualifying citizen ” means a person who is—         a qualifying
Commonwealth citizen within the meaning given by section 4 of the 1983 Act,
a citizen of the Republic of Ireland,           a qualifying EU citizen within
the meaning given by section 203A of the 1983 Act, or           an EU citizen
with retained rights within the meaning given by section 203B of the 1983 Act;

.

38.3

In Part 11 (appendix of forms), for form A (non-domestic rate-payer
registration form) and form B (voting choices form) substitute the
corresponding forms in Schedule 4 to these Regulations.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Jacob Young   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     25th October 2023

  Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012: New Schedule A1

Regulation 36(5)

  Procedure for reviewing voter eligibility in PCC election in Wales

Article 3A

######## Interpretation


1

In this Schedule—

      “ eligibility criteria ” means the criteria for eligibility to vote in a
PCC election set out in section 52(1C) of the 2011 Act;           “ relevant
person ” means a person who is registered in a register of local government
electors in Wales with a letter “B” against their entry.

######## Procedure for reviewing eligibility of relevant persons to vote in PCC elections in Wales


2

2.1

A registration officer in Wales must determine whether a relevant person has
ceased to satisfy the eligibility criteria in accordance with this paragraph
if the officer receives information that causes the officer to suspect that
the relevant person does not satisfy the eligibility criteria.

2.2

The registration officer must conduct a review in respect of the relevant
person, and where the registration officer is not satisfied that the relevant
person meets the eligibility criteria, the registration officer must—

2.2.a

send a notice to that person—

2.2.a.i

stating the date of issue of the notice,

2.2.a.ii

stating that the registration officer is not satisfied that the relevant
person is eligible to vote in a PCC election, and the grounds for his opinion,

2.2.a.iii

stating that eligibility to vote in PCC elections in Wales is unrelated to
eligibility to register and vote in local government elections in Wales, and

2.2.a.iv

requiring the relevant person to provide such further information as may be
requested of an applicant for registration under regulation 26BA of the 2001
Regulations, and

2.2.b

enter the review in the list kept pursuant to regulation 31E of the 2001
Regulations.

2.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies where—

2.3.a

the registration officer sends to a relevant person a notice in the form
specified in sub-paragraph (2), and

2.3.b

that person does not respond to the registration officer’s satisfaction, or at
all, within the period of 28 days beginning with the date of issue of that
notice.

2.4

The registration officer must send a further notice to the relevant person
which states—

2.4.a

the date of issue of the notice,

2.4.b

that the registration officer is not satisfied that the relevant person is or
was eligible to vote in a PCC election, and the grounds for the registration
officer’s opinion,

2.4.c

that if within 14 days beginning with the date of issue of the notice, the
relevant person does not require the review to be heard—

2.4.c.i

the registration officer may determine that the relevant person is not
eligible to vote in a PCC election, and

2.4.c.ii

if so, the relevant person would not be entitled to appeal against the
registration officer’s determination in those circumstances, and

2.4.d

that after 14 days beginning with the date of issue of the notice, the
relevant person can contact the registration officer to find out if the
registration officer has determined the relevant person’s eligibility to vote
in a PCC election.

2.5

Where—

2.5.a

the registration officer sends to a relevant person a further notice pursuant
to sub-paragraph (4), and

2.5.b

the relevant person does not, within the period of 14 days beginning with the
date of issue of that notice, notify the registration officer that the
relevant person requires the review to be heard,

the registration officer may determine, without a hearing, that the relevant
person does not or has ceased to satisfy the eligibility criteria and, if so,
must update the person’s register entry in accordance with regulation 42 of
the 2001 Regulations.

######## Hearings of reviews


3

3.1

The relevant person is entitled to require the review to be heard by notifying
the registration officer within 14 days beginning with the date of issue of
the notice sent under paragraph 2(4), and where the relevant person does so
regulation 31F(2) to (7) and 31FZA(1) of the 2001 Regulations apply to that
requirement as they apply to a requirement in respect to a review under
regulation 31D of the 2001 Regulations, subject to the following
modifications.

3.2

Regulation 31F(6) applies as if, for the words from “was not entitled” to
“1983 Act” there were substituted  “does not or has ceased to satisfy the
eligibility criteria” .

3.3

Regulation 31FZA(1) applies as if—

3.3.a

the reference to regulation 31D(2) were a reference to paragraph 2(4) of this
Schedule;

3.3.b

in sub-paragraph (a), the reference to section 56(1)(azd) or (aa) of the 1983
Act  were a reference to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.

######## Eligibility appeals


4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), an appeal lies to the County Court from a
determination by a registration officer under this Schedule that a person does
not meet the eligibility criteria.

4.2

An appeal does not lie where the person desiring to appeal has not availed
themselves of an opportunity in this Schedule to be heard by or make
representations to the registration officer as to their eligibility or has not
given notice of appeal within the time prescribed in sub-paragraph (3)(a).

4.3

A person desiring to appeal must—

4.3.a

give notice of appeal to the registration officer when the determination is
made, or within 14 days thereafter, and

4.3.b

specify the grounds of appeal.

4.4

The registration officer must forward any such notice to the appropriate
county court in accordance with rules of court together with—

4.4.a

a statement of the material facts which in the registration officer’s opinion
have been established in the case, and

4.4.b

the registration officer’s decision upon the whole case and on any point which
may be specified as a ground of appeal.

4.5

Where it appears to the registration officer that any notices of appeal given
to them are based on similar grounds, the registration officer must inform the
appropriate county court of this to enable the court (if it thinks fit) to
consolidate the appeals or to select a case as a test case.

  Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012: New Form

Regulation 36(6)

  Form 1: Proxy form

  Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021: New Form

Regulation 37

  Form 1: Proxy form

  Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012: New Forms

Regulation 38(3)

  Form A: non-domestic rate-payer registration form

  Form B: voting choices form

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision related to the change in franchise for
citizens of the European Union for local government elections in England, and
for Police and Crime Commissioner (“ PCC ”) elections in England and Wales.

  Part 2 provides, at Chapter 2, a process for the review of the entitlement
of citizens of member States of the European Union to remain registered on the
register of local government electors in England following the change in
registration criteria in section 4 of the Representation of the People Act
1983 (c. 2)  (“ the 1983 Act ”). Chapter 3 of that Part provides a similar
process for the review of the eligibility of registered citizens of member
States of the European Union to vote in PCC elections in Wales following the
change in eligibility criteria in section 52(1C) of the Police Reform and
Social Responsibility Act  2011 (c. 13) .

  Chapter 4 of Part 2 also provides for registration officers to supply
anonymised information to the Electoral Commission on steps taken in each of
the review processes, which (with limited exceptions) is to be concluded by
the end of 31st January 2025. Regulation 28 requires the Electoral Commission
to create designs of some of the communications and notices to be used by
registration officers in these review processes.

  Part 3 provides for a revised date for the end of which revised versions of
certain electoral registers for 2024 must be published by electoral
registration officers under section 13 of the 1983 Act. Part 3 also contains
transitional provisions relating to PCC elections conducted prior to the end
of the review process under Chapter 3 of Part 2.

  Part 4 makes amendments to the Representation of the People (England and
Wales) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/341 ) as to the content of applications
for registration on the register of local government electors in England and
Wales, due to the changes to registration entitlement and PCC election voting
eligibility. The amendments also give a power to registration officers to seek
further evidence from applicants where necessary to determine eligibility to
vote in PCC elections in Wales.

  Part 5 makes amendments to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order
2012 ( S.I. 2012/1917 ) (“ the 2012 Order ”) and the Police and Crime
Commissioner (Welsh Forms) Order 2021 ( S.I. 2021/291 ). Amendments to the
2012 Order in relation to England reflect the change in franchise of citizens
of the European Union to register on the register of local government
electors, and to act as proxies in PCC elections; and amendments in relation
to Wales introduce a procedure to review from time to time the eligibility of
registered EU citizens to vote in PCC elections in Wales.

  Part 6 makes amendments to the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums)
Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/2031 ) in relation to business referendums, to
reflect the revised eligibility of citizens of the European Union to vote on
behalf of a business at such a business referendum.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of businesses, the voluntary sector and the public sector is available
from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities at 2 Marsham
Street, London, SW1P 4DF and published with the Explanatory Memorandum
alongside this instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

