Title: The Magistrates’ Courts Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-11-06
Description: This Order amends the Magistrates’ Courts Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 102) to increase the fees payable in respect of proceedings in the Magistrates’ Court over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024). It also amends the 1996 Order to introduce some new fees and make other amendments in consequence of amendments to the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (S.I. 1996 No. 3158) (N.I. 22)) and the Registration of Clubs (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (S.I. 1996 No. 3159) (N.I. 23)) made by the Licensing and Registraton of Clubs (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2021 (c.7).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/170

## The Magistrates’ Courts Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

Magistrates’ Courts

Made 10th October 2023

Coming into operation 1st November 2023

The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
116(1) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978  and now vested in it ,
makes the following Order with the concurrence of the Department of Finance .
The Department has, in accordance with section 116(1) of that Act, consulted
with the Lady Chief Justice.

### Citation and commencement


1

This Order may be cited as the Magistrates’ Courts Fees (Amendment) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st November 2023.

### Amendment of the Magistrates’ Courts Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996


2

The Magistrates’ Courts Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996  is amended as
follows.

3

For Schedules 1 and 2 substitute the new Schedules 1 and 2 set out in the
Schedule to this Order.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 10th October
2023 Richard Pengelly A senior officer of the Department of Justice The
Department of Finance concurs in the making of this Order. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance 10th October 2023 Patrick Neeson A
senior officer of the Department of Finance

Article 3

Article 4

Court Fees  A. In proceedings to which Part VI of the Order applies Debt
Proceedings Fee As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 1. Process (ordinary,
enforcement or committal) £43.00 £47.00 2. Set-off, counterclaim, decree
(including an order made on application under Part VIII of the Judgments
Enforcement (Northern Ireland) Order 1981) or dismiss £28.00 £31.00 Ejectment
Proceedings 3. Process (including proceedings where a claim for rent or sum
due under Article 69 of the Order is joined with a claim for possession)
£43.00 £47.00 4. Decree or dismiss £28.00 £31.00 Duplicate Orders and Extracts
from Register 5. Notice for duplicate orders £43.00 £47.00 6. Duplicate order
£43.00 £47.00 7. Certified extract from register £43.00 £47.00 B. In
proceedings to which Part VII of the Order applies 8. Notice of application or
notice of appeal to a magistrates’ court £142.00 £155.00 C. Appeals and case
stated 9. Copy notice of appeal lodged with Clerk of Petty Sessions or process
in relation to civil proceedings £142.00 £155.00 10. Copy notice of appeal
lodged with Clerk of Petty Sessions for a complaint, application, appeal or
process (except where appellant in prison or in respect of civil proceedings)
£43.00 Subject to a maximum fee of £215.00 £47.00 Subject to a maximum fee of
£235.00 11. Written application for case stated £142.00 £155.00 12. Case
stated £142.00 £155.00 D. Notices of application under the Licensing (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 13. (a) Application for renewal under Article 14 £386.00
£421.00 (b) Application for protection order under Article 26 £97.00 £106.00
(c) Application for temporary continuance of business in other premises under
Article 29 £97.00 £106.00 (d) Application for transfer under Article 22
£386.00 £421.00 (e) Application for transfer and renewal under Article 23
£773.00 £843.00 (f) Application for order for alternative permitted hours
under Article 43 £386.00 £421.00 (g) Application for order for additional
permitted hours under Article 44 £386.00 £421.00 (h) Application for order for
further additional permitted hours under Article 44A £386.00 £421.00 (i)
Application under Article 44B(1) for revocation or modification of an order
made under Article 44A £386.00 £421.00 (j) Application for order under Article
48 (suitability of certain premises for functions) £386.00 £421.00 (k)
Application for order under Article 52E (Local producer’s premises:
suitability for on-sales) £386.00 £421.00 (l) Application for order under
Article 52F (Local producer’s premises: authorisation for on-sales) £97.00
£106.00 (m) Application for order under Article 58A (suitability of certain
premises for underage functions) £225.00 £245.00 (n) Application for an
authorisation under Article 58B (authorisations for underage functions) £97.00
£106.00 (o) Additional fee for an application for renewal out of time under
Article 16 for each month or part of a month £161.00 £175.00 (p) Application
for the grant of each occasional licence under Article 30— (i) for the first
day £117.00 £128.00 (ii) for each additional day £28.00 £31.00 (q) Application
for grant of an extension licence under Article 47 £97.00 £106.00 (r)
Application with respect to a licence for an indoor arena or outdoor stadia
under Article 77A £386.00 £421.00 14. (a) For each inspection of the register
of licences as provided for under Article 35 £31.00 £34.00 (b) For each copy
of all or any part of any entry taken from the register of licences as
provided for under Article 35 - in respect of each licensed premises £15.00
£16.00 15. A duplicate licence, being a certified copy of particulars recorded
in the register of licences, issued under Article 38(2) £213.00 £232.00 E.
Applications under the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements (Northern
Ireland) Order 1985 Bookmakers’ Licences and Bookmaking Office Licences 16. A
notice of application for the grant of bookmaker’s licence under Article 8(1)
£366.00 £399.00 17. A notice of application for renewal of a bookmaker’s
licence under Article 16(1) £265.00 £289.00 18. A notice of application for
renewal out of time of a bookmaker’s licence under Article 20(1) £425.00
£463.00 19. A notice of application for renewal of a bookmaking office licence
under Article 18(1) £265.00 £289.00 20. A notice of application for renewal
out of time of bookmaking office licence under Article 20(1) £425.00 £463.00
21. A notice of application for transfer of bookmaking office licence under
Article 23(1) £265.00 £289.00 22. A notice of application for concurrent
transfer and renewal of bookmaking office licence under Article 24(1) £498.00
£543.00 23. Application for temporary continuance of business in other
premises under Article 26 £97.00 £106.00 24. A notice of application for
revocation of a bookmaker’s licence under Article 27(1) £265.00 £289.00 25. A
notice of application for revocation of a bookmaking office licence under
Article 28(1) £265.00 £289.00 Bingo Club Licences 26. A notice of application
for the grant of bingo club licence under Article 63(1) £265.00 £289.00 27. A
notice of application for the provisional grant of a bingo club licence under
Article 65(1) £265.00 £289.00 28. A notice of application for the renewal of
bingo club licence under Article 67(1) £265.00 £289.00 29. A notice of
application for the renewal out of time of a bingo club licence under Article
69(1) £425.00 £463.00 30. Bingo club grant declared final £142.00 £155.00
Gaming Machine Certificates and Permits 31. A notice of application for the
grant of a gaming machine certificate under Article 85(1) £265.00 £289.00 32.
A notice of application for the renewal of a gaming machine certificate under
Article 87(1) £265.00 £289.00 33. A notice of application for the renewal of a
gaming machine certificate out of time under Article 89(1) £425.00 £463.00 34.
A notice of application for the grant of a gaming machine permit under Article
85(3) £265.00 £289.00 Registration of Clubs 35. A notice of application for
the registration of a club under Article 96(1) £265.00 £289.00 36. A notice of
application for the renewal of registration of a club under Article 98(1)
£265.00 £289.00 37. A notice of application for the renewal of registration of
a club out of time under Article 100(1) £425.00 £463.00 Lottery Certificates
38. A notice of application for the grant of a lottery certificate under
Article 142(1) £322.00 £351.00 39. A notice of application for renewal of a
lottery certificate under Article 144(1) £265.00 £289.00 40. A notice of
application for renewal out of time of a lottery certificate under Article
146(1) £425.00 £463.00 41. A notice of application for revocation of a lottery
certificate under Article 149(1) £265.00 £289.00 Supplementary 42. (a) For
each inspection of the register of licences, certificates and permits kept
under Article 174(1) £31.00 £34.00 (b) For each copy of all or any part of an
entry taken from the register of licences, certificates and permits kept under
Article 174(1) £15.00 £16.00 43. (a) For each inspection of the register of
clubs kept under Article 175(1) £31.00 £34.00 (b) For each copy of all or part
of an entry taken from the register of clubs kept under Article 175(1) £15.00
£16.00 44. A duplicate of any licence, certificate or permit referred to in
Article 179(1) being a certified copy of particulars recorded in the register
kept under Article 174(1) or 175(1), as the case may be, and issued under
Article 179(2) £213.00 £232.00 F. Applications under the Registration of Clubs
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 45. On every application for the renewal of
registration of a club under Article 7 £386.00 £421.00 46. Additional fee for
application to renew registration out of time under Article 9 for each month
or part of month £147.00 £160.00 47. Application for continuance of club in
other temporary premises under Article 12 £97.00 £106.00 48. (a) For each
inspection of the register of clubs as provided for under Article 17 £31.00
£34.00 (b) For each copy of all or any part of any entry taken from the
register of clubs as provided for under Article 17 £15.00 £16.00 49. A
duplicate certificate of registration being a certified copy of particulars
recorded in the register of clubs, issued under Article 20(2) £213.00 £232.00
G. Miscellaneous 50. A certificate of conviction or order £43.00 £47.00 51. A
certificate authorising the grant of game dealer’s licence £142.00 £155.00 52.
A notice of application for a licence under section 1 of the General Dealers
(Ireland) Act 1903 £142.00 £155.00 53. A notice of application, or an
application, to a magistrates’ court (other than an application brought by an
employer under paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 1 to the Justice Act (Northern
Ireland) 2016) not otherwise provided for £142.00 £155.00 54. On a copy,
including a photographic copy, of all or any part of any document not
otherwise provided for— (a) five sheets or less £7.00 £8.00 (b) for each sheet
thereafter £0.50 £0.50 (c) on a copy order/decree including certified or
sealed £15.00 £16.00 (d) on a copy order/decree produced online £13.00 £14.00
H. Applications under the Child Support (Northern Ireland) Order 1991 55. A
notice of application for a declaration of parentage under Article 28 £71.00
£77.00 56. A summons on an application for a liability order under Article
33(2) £71.00 £77.00 57. An application for a summons or warrant under
regulation 29 of the Child Support (Collection and Enforcement) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1992 £71.00 £77.00 I. Applications under the Children
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995 58. An application for an order under Parts II
or III not otherwise provided for £71.00 £77.00 59. An application for an
order under Article 50 (care or supervision order) 55, (education supervision
order) or 62 (child assessment order) £71.00 £77.00 60. An application for an
order under Article 53 (contact or refusal of contact with a child in care) or
13 (change of child’s surname or removal from the jurisdiction) £71.00 £77.00
61. An application for a financial provision order under Schedule 1 £71.00
£77.00 62. An application to vary, extend or discharge an order made under any
of the provisions of the Order mentioned at items 58 to 61 above £52.00 £57.00
63. An application under Article 129 (affecting the registration of a child-
minder) or an appeal under Article 131 (appeal in relation to registration of
child-minder) £71.00 £77.00 64. An appeal under Article 113 (appeal in
relation to foster parenting) £71.00 £77.00 65. An appeal under Article 145
(appeal in relation to licence to take part in public performance) £71.00
£77.00 66. Any ex-parte application under Article 63 (emergency protection)
£0.00 £0.00 67. Full application under Article 63 £0.00 £0.00 68. Application
for a maintenance order to be sent outside Northern Ireland for enforcement
£71.00 £77.00 69. On a C2 application £71.00 £77.00 70. Application for leave
to apply under Article 44 (secure accommodation) £71.00 £77.00 Note: Where an
application under the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 requires the
leave of the Court the relevant fee applies where leave is sought but no
further fee may be charged if leave is granted and the application is made. J.
Applications under the Family Homes and Domestic Violence (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998 71. Any ex-parte (emergency) application £0.00 £0.00 72. Full
application £0.00 £0.00 73. On a C2 application £0.00 £0.00 74. Any other
application under the Family Homes and Domestic Violence (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998, not otherwise provided for £0.00 £0.00 K. Applications under the
Domestic Proceedings (Northern Ireland) Order 1980 75. Any application under
Domestic Proceedings (Northern Ireland) Order 1980 and Article 98 of the
Magistrates’ Court (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 £71.00 £77.00

Article 2

Fees payable for service of a summons or process  Fee As of 01/11/23 As of
01/10/24 1. (1) Subject to sub-paragraph (2) and paragraph 3, for the service
of a summons or process or document £15.00 £16.00 (2) Where service of a
summons or process is required to be personal £19.00 £21.00 2. For the service
of a summons or process where there are two or more defendants or witnesses in
the same proceedings there shall be a separate fee for each defendant or
witness 3. Where a document relating to a summons is served together with the
summons, for each document served £4.00 £4.00

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends the Magistrates’ Courts Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (
S.R. 1996 No. 102 ) to increase the fees payable in respect of proceedings in
the Magistrates’ Court over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st
November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024). It
also amends the 1996 Order to introduce some new fees and make other
amendments in consequence of amendments to the Licensing (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996 No. 3158) (N.I. 22))  and the Registration of Clubs
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996 No. 3159) (N.I. 23))  made by the
Licensing and Registraton of Clubs (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland)  2021
(c.7) .

An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from the Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals
Service, Laganside House, 23-27 Oxford Street, Belfast BT1 3LA or online
alongside this Statutory Rule at  www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

