Title: The Agricultural Holdings (Units of Production) (Wales) Order 2023
Date: 2023-07-27
Description: This Order prescribes units of production for the assessment of the productive capacity of agricultural land situated in Wales and sets out the amount which is to be regarded as the net annual income from each such unit for the periods 12 September 2021 to 11 September 2022 and 12 September 2022 to 11 September 2023, for certain purposes of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (“the 1986 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/42

## The Agricultural Holdings (Units of Production) (Wales) Order 2023

    Landlord And Tenant, Wales

  Made   17 January 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   19 January 2023

  Coming into force   10 February 2023

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 4
of Schedule 6 to the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986  and now vested in them
make the following Order.

### Title, application, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Agricultural Holdings (Units of Production)
(Wales) Order 2023, it applies in relation to Wales and comes into force on 10
February 2023.

1.2

In this Order—

      “ designated maps ” (“ mapiau dynodedig ”) means the two volumes of maps
numbered 1 and 2; each volume being marked “Volume of maps of less favoured
farming areas in Wales” and with the number of the volume dated 20 May 1991
and signed by the Secretary of State for Wales and deposited at the offices of
the Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ;           “
disadvantaged land ” (“ tir dan anfantais ”) (except in the expression “
severely disadvantaged land ”) means any area of land shown coloured blue on
the designated maps;           “ eligible hectare ” (“ hectar cymwys ”) has
the same meaning as in Article 32(2) of Regulation 1307/2013;           “ less
favoured area ” (“ ardal lai ffafriol ”) means any area of disadvantaged land
or severely disadvantaged land;           “ Regulation 1307/2013 ” (“ Rheoliad
1307/2013 ”) means Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing rules for direct payments to
farmers under support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural
policy ;           “ severely disadvantaged land ” (“ tir dan anfantais
ddifrifol ”) means any area of land shown coloured pink on the designated
maps.

### Assessment of the productive capacity of land

2

2.1

Paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) have effect for the purpose of the assessment of
the productive capacity of a unit of agricultural land situated in Wales, in
order to determine whether that unit is a commercial unit of agricultural land
within the meaning of paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 6 to the Agricultural
Holdings Act 1986.

2.2

Where the land in question is capable, when farmed under competent management,
of being used to produce any livestock, farm arable crop, outdoor
horticultural crop or fruit as mentioned in any of the entries 1 to 3 in
column 1 of the Schedule to this Order, then—

2.2.a

the unit of production prescribed in relation to that use of the land is the
unit in the corresponding entry in column 2,

2.2.b

the amount determined for the period of 12 months, beginning with 12 September
2021, as the net annual income from that unit of production in that period is
the amount in the corresponding entry in column 3, and

2.2.c

the amount determined for the period of 12 months, beginning with 12 September
2022, as the net annual income from that unit of production in that period is
the amount in the corresponding entry in column 4.

2.3

Where land capable, when farmed under competent management, of producing a net
annual income was an eligible hectare in 2020 in accordance with entry 4 in
column 1 of the Schedule to this Order, then—

2.3.a

the unit of production prescribed in relation to that use of the land is the
unit in the corresponding entry in column 2, and

2.3.b

the amount determined for the period of 12 months, beginning with 12 September
2021, as the net annual income from that unit of production in that period is
the amount in the corresponding entry in column 3.

2.4

Where land capable, when farmed under competent management, of producing a net
annual income was an eligible hectare in 2021 in accordance with entry 4 in
column 1 of the Schedule to this Order, then—

2.4.a

the unit of production prescribed in relation to that use of the land is the
unit in the corresponding entry in column 2, and

2.4.b

the amount determined for the period of 12 months, beginning with 12 September
2022, as the net annual income from that unit of production in that period is
the amount in the corresponding entry in column 4.

      Lesley Griffiths   Minister for Rural Affairs, North Wales and Trefnydd,
one of the Welsh Ministers     17 January 2023

  Prescribed units of production and determination of net annual income

Article 2

      column 1 column 2 column 3 column 4 Farming use Unit of production Net
annual income from unit of production (£) for the period of 12 months
beginning with 12 September 2021 Net annual income from unit of production (£)
for the period of 12 months beginning with 12 September 2022       (1)
This is the figure for animals (irrespective of age) which are kept for 12
months. In the case of animals kept for less than 12 months, a pro rata
adjustment of this figure is to be made.           1. Livestock Dairy cows cow
641 813 Beef breeding cows: on land in a less favoured area cow -144 -106 on
other land cow -264 -156 Beef fattening cattle (semi-intensive) head -149 -18
(1) Dairy replacements head 90 99 (1) Ewes: on land in a less favoured area
ewe -20 -12 on other land ewe 3 23 Store lambs (including ewe lambs sold as
shearlings) head 5 9 Pigs: sows and gilts in pig sow or gilt 244 269 porker
head 8 9.1 cutter head 10.8 12.1 bacon head 12.7 14.5 Poultry: laying hens
bird 4.3 4.2 broilers bird 0.3 0.3 point-of-lay pullets bird 0.8 0.8 Christmas
turkeys bird 10.5 12.5 2. Farm arable crops Barley hectare 145 397 Beans
hectare 7 135 Oilseed rape hectare 250 294 Dried peas hectare -20 -50
Potatoes: first early hectare 3,190 3,460 maincrop (including seed) hectare
2,410 2,410 Sugar beet hectare 160 460 Wheat hectare 370 480 3. Outdoor
horticultural crops and fruit Orchard fruit hectare 3,090 3,460 Soft fruit
hectare 14,720 15,460 4. Eligible hectares Land which was in 2020 (see column
3) or in 2021 (see column 4), an eligible hectare for the purposes of
Regulation 1307/2013 severely disadvantaged land hectare 132.70 114.98
disadvantaged land hectare 131.19 114.96 all other land hectare 33.46 79.06

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order prescribes units of production for the assessment of the
productive capacity of agricultural land situated in Wales and sets out the
amount which is to be regarded as the net annual income from each such unit
for the periods 12 September 2021 to 11 September 2022 and 12 September 2022
to 11 September 2023, for certain purposes of the Agricultural Holdings Act
1986 (“ the 1986 Act ”).

  An assessment of the productive capacity of agricultural land is required in
determining whether or not the land in question is a “ commercial unit of
agricultural land ” for the purposes of the succession provisions of the 1986
Act; in particular sections 36(3) and 50(2) which address this question. A
“commercial unit of agricultural land” is a unit of agricultural land, which,
when farmed under competent management, is capable of producing a net annual
income which is not less than the aggregate of the average annual earnings of
two full-time male agricultural workers aged 20 years or over. Paragraph 3 of
Schedule 6 to the 1986 Act provides a definition of “commercial unit of
agricultural land”.

  Article 2 of this Order provides that, in determining this annual income
figure, whenever a particular farming use mentioned in column 1 of the
Schedule is relevant to the assessment of the productive capacity of the land
in question, the units of production specified in column 2 and the net annual
income specified in column 3 or 4 will form the basis of the assessment.

  This Order includes net annual income figures for land which was in 2020 or
2021, an eligible hectare within the meaning of Article 32(2) of Regulation
(EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December
2013 establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes
within the framework of the common agricultural policy. There are separate
figures in the Schedule for disadvantaged land and severely disadvantaged
land, land in a less favoured area and other land.

  The Welsh Ministers’ code of practice on the carrying out of regulatory
impact assessments was considered in relation to this Order. As a result, it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with this Order.

