Title: The Magistrates’ Courts (Stalking Protection Orders) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-01-25
Description: These Rules contain provisions relating to sections 6 to 16 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (2022 c.17) which make provision in relation to stalking protection orders.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/175

## The Magistrates’ Courts (Stalking Protection Orders) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Magistrates’ Courts   Procedure

  Made   20th September 2023

  Coming into operation in accordance with Rule 1   19th October 2023

      The Magistrates’ Courts Rules Committee makes and the Department of
Justice, after consultation with the Lady Chief Justice, allows the following
Rules in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 13 of the Magistrates’
Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

These Rules may be cited as the Magistrates’ Courts (Stalking Protection
Orders) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on the
same day as section 7 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland)
2022 .

1.2

In these Rules—

1.2.a

“ the Act ” means the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 and
expressions used have the same meaning as in the Act;

1.2.b

a reference to a Form by number means the Form so numbered in the Schedule to
these Rules or a form to like effect.

### Stalking protection order and interim stalking protection order


2

2.1

A summons issued on foot of a complaint for —

2.1.a

a stalking protection order under section 7 of the Act; or

2.1.b

an interim stalking protection order under section 11 of the Act,

shall be in Form 1.

2.2

A stalking protection order shall be in Form 2.

2.3

An interim stalking protection order shall be in Form 3.

### Application for variation, renewal or discharge


3

A summons issued on foot of a complaint for the variation, renewal or
discharge of—

3.a

a stalking protection order under section 10 of the Act; or

3.b

an interim stalking protection order under section 11(7) of the Act,

shall be made in Form 4.

### Service of Documents


4

4.1

Subject to paragraph (2), service of a summons under these Rules may be
effected—

4.1.a

by a member of the Police Service of Northern Ireland serving a copy of the
summons on the defendant in person; or

4.1.b

by sending a copy of the summons by ordinary post to the defendant at the
defendant’s last known address (in which case the summons shall be deemed to
have been received by the defendant in the ordinary course of post, unless the
defendant proves to the contrary).

4.2

In the case of a summons on foot of a complaint for the variation, renewal or
discharge of an order specified in Rule 3 issued by the defendant mentioned in
that order, service shall be effected in accordance with paragraphs (2), (6)
and (7) of Rule 11 of the Magistrates’ Courts Rules (Northern Ireland) 1984
by delivering a copy of the summons to any police station and leaving a copy
with the officer in charge or any other constable.

4.3

Where the court makes a stalking protection order or an interim stalking
protection order, the clerk of petty sessions shall serve a copy of that order
on the defendant—

4.3.a

where the defendant is present, in person if practicable; or

4.3.b

by sending it by ordinary post to the defendant’s last-known address (in which
case the order shall be deemed to have been received by the defendant in the
ordinary course of post unless the defendant proves to the contrary).

4.4

Where the court makes an order varying, renewing or discharging an order
specified in Rule 3, the clerk of petty sessions shall serve on the defendant
a copy of the order as it has been varied, renewed or discharged—

4.4.a

where the defendant is present, in person if practicable; or

4.4.b

by sending it by ordinary post to the defendant at either the defendant’s last
known address or any address which is currently notified by the defendant
under section 14 of the Act (in which case the order shall be deemed to have
been received by the defendant in the ordinary course of post unless the
defendant proves to the contrary).

4.5

In paragraph (4), a reference to the defendant is a reference to the defendant
in the proceedings in which the order was originally made.

      Nigel Broderick   Steven Keown   Tracey McCloskey   Debbie Maclam   John
O’Neill     Dated 20th September 2023             In exercise of the powers
conferred upon me by Article 13 of the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland)
Order 1981 and after consultation with the Lady Chief Justice, I allow these
Rules.       Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 9th
October 2023         Richard Pengelly CB   A senior officer of the Department
of Justice

















## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Rules)

  These Rules contain provisions relating to sections 6 to 16 of the
Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 ( 2022 c.17 ) which make
provision in relation to stalking protection orders.

  Rule 2 prescribes the procedure for an application for a stalking protection
order and an interim stalking protection order.

  Rule 3 prescribes the procedure for an application for variation, renewal or
discharge of a stalking protection order or an interim stalking protection
order.

  Rule 4 prescribes the manner in which a summons or an order required to be
served under these Rules may be served.

