Title: The Food Supplements and Food for Specific Groups (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-09-10
Description: These Regulations make provision in relation to vitamins and minerals permitted in the manufacture of food supplements and certain categories of food. Regulation 6(2)(b) corrects a copying error made in SI 2019/651. Following consultation with the SI Registrar, this instrument has been issued under the free issue procedure.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/28

## The Food Supplements and Food for Specific Groups (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023

    This Statutory Instrument has been printed partially to correct errors in
S.I. 2019/651  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of
that Statutory Instrument.

    Food

  Made   11th January 2023

  Laid before Parliament   13th January 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 16(1)(a) and 48(1) of the Food Safety Act 1990 ,
Articles 11(1)(b) and (g), 16(1)(a) and 16A(2) of Regulation (EU) No 609/2013
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on food intended
for infants and young children, food for special medical purposes, and total
diet replacement for weight control  and regulation 2(2) of the Nutrition
(Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 .       The Secretary of State has
consulted in accordance with Article 9 of Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the
general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European
Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety .
In accordance with Article 16A of Regulation (EU) No 609/2013 and regulation
5(2) of the Nutrition (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019, these
Regulations are made with the consent of the Scottish and Welsh Ministers.
The Secretary of State has had regard to relevant advice given by the Food
Standards Agency in accordance with section 48(4A) of the Food Safety Act
1990.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Food Supplements and Food for Specific
Groups (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2023.

1.2

Subject to paragraph (2A), these Regulations come into force on 10th February
2023.

1.2A

Regulation 6(2)(a) comes into force on 10th August 2024.

1.3

Any amendment made by these Regulations has the same extent as the provision
amended.

### Amendment to the Processed Cereal-based Foods and Baby Foods for Infants and Young Children (England) Regulations 2003

2

2.1

The Processed Cereal-based Foods and Baby Foods for Infants and Young Children
(England) Regulations 2003  are amended as follows.

2.2

In Schedule 4 (Nutritional Substances)—

2.2.a

in paragraph 1 (Vitamins) after “Folic acid” insert  “Calcium-L-methylfolate”
; and

2.2.b

in paragraph 4 (Salts of minerals and trace elements) after—

2.2.b.i

“Ferrous carbonate” insert  “Ferrous bisglycinate” ; and

2.2.b.ii

“Zinc acetate” insert  “Zinc chloride” .

### Amendment to Regulation (EU) No 609/2013

3

3.1

Regulation (EU) No 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
12 June 2013 on food intended for infants and young children, food for special
medical purposes, and total diet replacement for weight control is amended as
follows.

3.2

In the Annex, in the section of the table entitled “Vitamins”, under the
substance “Folate”, for the entry in respect of “calcium-L-methylfolate”,
substitute—

      calcium-L-methylfolate X X X

### Amendment to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/127

4

4.1

Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/127 of 25 September 2015
supplementing Regulation (EU) No 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of
the Council as regards the specific compositional and information requirements
for infant formula and follow-on formula and as regards requirements on
information relating to infant and young child feeding  is amended as follows.

4.2

In Article 4 (requirements on pesticides), for paragraph 1, substitute—

4.2.1

For the purposes of this Article, ‘residue’ means pesticide residue as
referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of Article 3(2) of Regulation  (EC) No
396/2005 .

.

### Amendment to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/128

5

5.1

Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/128 of 25 September 2015
supplementing Regulation (EU) No 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of
the Council as regards the specific compositional and information requirements
for food for special medical purposes  is amended as follows.

5.2

In Article 3 (requirements on pesticides in food for special medical purposes
developed to satisfy the nutritional requirements of infants and young
children), for paragraph 1, substitute—

5.2.1

For the purposes of this Article, ‘residue’ means pesticide residue as
referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of Article 3(2) of Regulation  (EC) No
396/2005 .

.

### Amendment to the Nutrition (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019

6

6.1

The Nutrition (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 are amended as
follows.

6.2

In Schedule 1 (Vitamins and minerals which may be used in the manufacture of
food supplements), in the second column of the table (Minerals)—

6.2.a

in the entry for Copper, for “(µg)” substitute  “(mg)” ; and

6.2.b

in the entry for Zinc, for “(µg)” substitute  “(mg)” .

6.3

In Schedule 2 (Vitamin and mineral substances which may be used in the
manufacture of food supplements)—

6.3.a

in Part A of the table (Vitamins), in entry 7 after “(c) inositol
hexanicotinate (inositol hexaniacinate)” insert  “(d) nicotinamide riboside
chloride” ; and

6.3.b

in Part B of the table (Minerals), after the entry “magnesium acetyl taurate”
insert  “magnesium citrate malate” .

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care
Neil O’Brien   Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State,   Department of Health
and Social Care     11th January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision in relation to vitamins and minerals
permitted in the manufacture of food supplements and certain categories of
food. Regulation 6(2)(b) corrects a copying error made in  SI 2019/651 .
Following consultation with the SI Registrar, this instrument has been issued
under the free issue procedure.

  Regulation 2 amends Schedule 4 to the Processed Cereal-based Foods and Baby
Foods for Infants and Young Children (England) Regulations 2003 to permit the
addition of calcium-L-methylfolate, ferrous bisglycinate and zinc chloride as
permitted forms of substances which can be added to processed cereal-based
foods and baby foods.

  Regulation 3 amends the Annex (‘Great Britain List’) to the retained EU
Regulation No 609/2013 to permit the addition of calcium-L-methylfolate as a
permitted form of substances which can be added to infant formula and follow-
on formula.

  Regulation 4 amends the definition of pesticide residue in the retained
Article 4 of the EU Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/127 which pertains to
infant formula and follow-on formula.

  Regulation 5 amends the definition of pesticide residue in the retained
Article 3 of the EU Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/128 which pertains to
food for special medical purposes developed to satisfy the nutritional
requirements of infants and young children.

  Regulation 6 amends the units of measurement for copper and zinc from
micrograms (µg) to milligrams (mg) in Schedule 1 (Vitamins and Minerals which
may be used in the manufacture of food supplements) to the Nutrition
(Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019. It also amends Schedule 2 to the
Nutrition (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 to permit the addition
of nicotinamide riboside chloride and magnesium citrate malate as permitted
forms of vitamins and mineral substances which may be used in the manufacture
of food supplements.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

