Title: Workers (Predictable Terms and Conditions) Act 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/46

## Workers (Predictable Terms and Conditions) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Workers (except agency workers): right to request predictable work pattern

1

1.1

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended in accordance with this section.

1.2

For the title of Part 8A substitute—

  Rights to request changes to terms and conditions etc

1.3

Before section 80F insert—

  Chapter 1

  Flexible working

1.4

After section 80I insert—

######### Predictable work pattern: workers (except agency workers)

########## Statutory right to request predictable work pattern

1.4.80IA

1.4.80IA.1

A worker may apply to the worker’s employer for a change in terms and
conditions of employment if—

1.4.80IA.1.a

there is a lack of predictability, in relation to the work that the worker
does for the employer, as regards any part of the worker’s work pattern,

1.4.80IA.1.b

the change relates to the worker’s work pattern, and

1.4.80IA.1.c

the worker’s purpose in applying for the change is to get a more predictable
work pattern.

(But see section  80IB  concerning restrictions on the making of an
application.)

1.4.80IA.2

The work pattern of a worker is made up of—

1.4.80IA.2.a

the number of hours that the worker works,

1.4.80IA.2.b

the days of the week on which, and the times on those days when, the worker
works,

1.4.80IA.2.c

the period for which the worker is contracted to work, and

1.4.80IA.2.d

such other aspects of the worker’s terms and conditions of employment as the
Secretary of State may specify by regulations.

1.4.80IA.3

If a worker works under a worker’s contract with a fixed term of 12 months or
less—

1.4.80IA.3.a

there is to be regarded as being a lack of predictability as regards the
period for which the worker is contracted to work, and

1.4.80IA.3.b

the worker’s purpose in applying for a change to the duration of the contract
is to be regarded as being to get a more predictable work pattern if the
change would result in a longer fixed term or the removal of the provision in
the worker’s contract restricting its duration.

1.4.80IA.4

An application under this section must—

1.4.80IA.4.a

state that it is such an application, and

1.4.80IA.4.b

specify the change applied for and the date on which it is proposed the change
should become effective.

1.4.80IA.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

1.4.80IA.5.a

the form of applications under this section, and

1.4.80IA.5.b

when such an application is to be taken to be made.

1.4.80IA.6

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
cases.

########## Restrictions on the making of an application under section 

1.4.80IB

1.4.80IB.1

An agency worker may not make an application under section  80IA  (see instead
Chapter 2 of this Part).

1.4.80IB.2

“Agency worker” has the same meaning in this section as in the Agency Workers
Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/93 ) (see regulation 3 of the Regulations).

1.4.80IB.3

A worker may only make an application under section  80IA  to the worker’s
employer if the worker was employed by the same employer (whether or not under
the same worker’s contract) at some point during the month immediately
preceding such period, ending with the making of the application, as is
specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

1.4.80IB.4

Section  80IA  is subject to section  80IM  (which restricts the right to make
multiple applications under this Part).

1.4.80IB.5

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
cases.

1.4.80IB.6

“Work pattern” has the same meaning in this section as in section  80IA  (see
section  80IA (2) ).

########## Employer’s duties in relation to an application under section 

1.4.80IC

1.4.80IC.1

An employer to whom an application under section  80IA  is made—

1.4.80IC.1.a

must deal with the application in a reasonable manner,

1.4.80IC.1.b

must notify the worker of the decision on the application within the decision
period, and

1.4.80IC.1.c

may only reject the application because the employer considers that one or
more of the following grounds applies—

1.4.80IC.1.c.i

the burden of additional costs,

1.4.80IC.1.c.ii

detrimental effect on ability to meet customer demand,

1.4.80IC.1.c.iii

detrimental impact on the recruitment of staff,

1.4.80IC.1.c.iv

detrimental impact on other aspects of the employer’s business,

1.4.80IC.1.c.v

insufficiency of work during the periods the worker proposes to work,

1.4.80IC.1.c.vi

planned structural changes, and

1.4.80IC.1.c.vii

such other grounds as the Secretary of State may specify by regulations.

1.4.80IC.2

Subsection  (1)  applies even if the worker ceases to be employed by the
employer during the decision period.

1.4.80IC.3

In such a case—

1.4.80IC.3.a

the employer may also reject the application on the ground that—

1.4.80IC.3.a.i

the worker terminated the worker’s contract (with or without notice) other
than in circumstances in which the worker was entitled to terminate it without
notice by reason of the employer’s conduct;

1.4.80IC.3.a.ii

the employer terminated the worker’s contract (with or without notice) and the
employer’s reason for doing so (or, if more than one, the employer’s principal
reason for doing so) is a qualifying reason and in the circumstances
(including the size and administrative resources of the employer’s
undertaking) the employer acted reasonably in treating the reason (or the
principal reason) as a sufficient reason for terminating the contract, and

1.4.80IC.3.b

if the employer grants the application, the employer must, before the end of
the offer period, offer the worker a new worker’s contract with terms and
conditions that—

1.4.80IC.3.b.i

taken as a whole, are not less favourable than the terms and conditions of the
worker’s contract at the time the application was made, and

1.4.80IC.3.b.ii

reflect the change relating to the worker’s work pattern that was applied for.

1.4.80IC.4

In subsection  (3)(a)(ii)  “ qualifying reason ” means—

1.4.80IC.4.a

a reason that fulfils the requirement in section 98(1)(b), or

1.4.80IC.4.b

in relation to a worker who was not an employee immediately before ceasing to
be employed, a reason that would fulfil the requirement in section 98(1)(b) if
references in that provision and in section 98(2) and (3) to an employee were
references to a worker.

1.4.80IC.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)(c)(vii)  may provide for a modified version
of a specified ground to apply in cases where the worker ceases to be employed
by an employer.

1.4.80IC.6

If an employer allows a worker to appeal a decision to reject an application,
the reference in subsection  (1)(b)  to the decision on the application is a
reference to—

1.4.80IC.6.a

the decision on the appeal, or

1.4.80IC.6.b

if more than one appeal is allowed, the decision on the final appeal.

1.4.80IC.7

For the purposes of subsections  (1)(b) ,  (2)  and  (5)  the decision period
applicable to a worker’s application under section  80IA  is the period of one
month beginning with the date on which the application is made.

1.4.80IC.8

For the purposes of subsection  (3)(b)  the offer period applicable to a
worker’s application under section  80IA  is the period of two weeks beginning
with date on which the employer grants the application.

1.4.80IC.9

An application under section  80IA  is to be treated as having been withdrawn
by the worker if—

1.4.80IC.9.a

the worker without good reason has failed to attend both the first meeting
arranged by the employer to discuss the application and the next meeting
arranged for that purpose, or

1.4.80IC.9.b

where the employer allows the worker to appeal a decision to reject an
application or to make a further appeal, the worker without good reason has
failed to attend both the first meeting arranged by the employer to discuss
the appeal and the next meeting arranged for that purpose,

and the employer has notified the worker that the employer has decided to
treat that conduct of the worker as a withdrawal of the application.

1.4.80IC.10

“Work pattern” has the same meaning in this section as in section  80IA  (see
section  80IA (2) ).

########## Complaints to employment tribunals

1.4.80ID

1.4.80ID.1

A worker who makes an application under section  80IA  may present a complaint
to an employment tribunal—

1.4.80ID.1.a

that the worker’s employer has failed in relation to the application to comply
with section  80IC (1)  (as read, where applicable, with section  80IC (3)(a)
),

1.4.80ID.1.b

that the worker’s employer has failed, having granted the application, to
comply with section  80IC (3)(b) ,

1.4.80ID.1.c

that a decision by the employer to reject the application was based on
incorrect facts, or

1.4.80ID.1.d

that the employer’s notification under section  80IC (9)  was given in
circumstances that did not satisfy one of the requirements in section  80IC
(9)(a)  and  (b) .

1.4.80ID.2

No complaint under subsection  (1)(a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  may be made in respect
of an application which has been disposed of by agreement or withdrawn.

1.4.80ID.3

In the case of an application which has not been disposed of by agreement or
withdrawn—

1.4.80ID.3.a

no complaint under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (c)  may be made until—

1.4.80ID.3.a.i

the employer notifies the worker of the employer’s decision on the
application, or

1.4.80ID.3.a.ii

if the decision period applicable to the application (see section  80IC (7) )
comes to an end without the employer notifying the worker of the employer’s
decision on the application, the end of the decision period;

1.4.80ID.3.b

no complaint under subsection  (1)(b)  may be made until—

1.4.80ID.3.b.i

the employer offers the worker a new worker’s contract, or

1.4.80ID.3.b.ii

if the offer period applicable to the application (see section  80IC (8) )
comes to an end without the employer offering the worker a new worker’s
contract, the end of the offer period.

1.4.80ID.4

If an employer allows a worker to appeal a decision to reject an application,
subsection  (3)(a)  applies as if the references to the employer notifying the
worker of the employer’s decision on the application were references to the
employer notifying the worker of the employer’s decision on the appeal or, if
more than one appeal is allowed, the decision on the final appeal.

1.4.80ID.5

A complaint under subsection  (1)(d)  may be made as soon as the notification
under section  80IC (9)  complained of is given to the worker.

1.4.80ID.6

An employment tribunal may not consider a complaint under this section unless
it is presented—

1.4.80ID.6.a

before the end of the period of three months beginning with the relevant date,
or

1.4.80ID.6.b

within such further period as the tribunal considers reasonable in a case
where it is satisfied that it was not reasonably practicable for the complaint
to be presented before the end of that period of three months.

1.4.80ID.7

In subsection  (6)(a) , the reference to the relevant date is a reference to
the first date on which the worker may make a complaint under subsection
(1)(a) ,  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  (as the case may be).

1.4.80ID.8

Section 207A(3) and section 207B (extension of time limits in certain
circumstances) apply for the purposes of subsection  (6)(a) .

########## Remedies

1.4.80IE

1.4.80IE.1

Where an employment tribunal finds a complaint under section  80ID  well-
founded it must make a declaration to that effect and may—

1.4.80IE.1.a

make an order for reconsideration of the application, and

1.4.80IE.1.b

make an award of compensation to be paid by the employer to the worker.

1.4.80IE.2

Where an employment tribunal makes an order under subsection  (1)(a) , section
80IC  is to apply as if the application had been made on the date of the
order.

1.4.80IE.3

The amount of compensation under subsection  (1)(b)  is to be such amount, not
exceeding the permitted maximum, as the tribunal considers just and equitable
in all the circumstances.

1.4.80IE.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , the permitted maximum is such number of
weeks’ pay as the Secretary of State may specify by regulations.

1.4.80IE.5

In calculating a week’s pay for the purposes of determining the permitted
maximum for an award of compensation to a worker who is not an employee,
Chapter 2 of Part 14 is to apply as if—

1.4.80IE.5.a

references in that Chapter and in section 234 (normal working hours) to an
employee were references to a worker;

1.4.80IE.5.b

references in that Chapter and in section 234 to a contract of employment were
references to a worker’s contract;

1.4.80IE.5.c

“week” meant—

1.4.80IE.5.c.i

in relation to a worker whose remuneration is calculated weekly by a week
ending with a day other than a Saturday, a week ending with that other day,
and

1.4.80IE.5.c.ii

in relation to any other worker, a week ending with Saturday.

1.5

The Schedule contains amendments of other legislation.

### Agency workers: right to request predictable work pattern

2

In the Employment Rights Act 1996, after section  80IE  (inserted by section
1) insert—

####### Predictable work pattern: agency workers

######## Statutory right to request predictable work pattern: agency workers

2.80IF

2.80IF.1

An agency worker may apply to a temporary work agency with which the agency
worker has a contract to perform work or services personally (whether or not a
contract of employment) for a change in the terms and conditions of the
contract if—

2.80IF.1.a

there is a lack of predictability, in relation to the work that the agency
worker is supplied by the temporary work agency to do for a particular hirer,
as regards any part of the agency worker’s work pattern,

2.80IF.1.b

the change relates to the agency worker’s work pattern, and

2.80IF.1.c

the agency worker’s purpose in applying for the change is to get a more
predictable work pattern.

(But see section  80IG  concerning restrictions on the making of an
application.)

2.80IF.2

An agency worker may apply to a hirer under whose supervision and direction
the agency worker is working for the hirer to enter into a contract of
employment or other worker’s contract with the agency worker if—

2.80IF.2.a

there is a lack of predictability, in relation to the work that the agency
worker does for the hirer, as regards any part of the agency worker’s work
pattern,

2.80IF.2.b

the change relates to the agency worker’s work pattern, and

2.80IF.2.c

the agency worker’s purpose in applying for the change is to get a more
predictable work pattern.

(But see section  80IG  concerning restrictions on the making of an
application.)

2.80IF.3

For the purposes of subsections  (1)  and  (2) , in relation to the work done
by the agency worker for a particular hirer, the work pattern of the agency
worker is made up of—

2.80IF.3.a

the number of hours that the agency worker works,

2.80IF.3.b

the days of the week on which, and the times on those days when, the agency
worker works,

2.80IF.3.c

the period for which the agency worker is supplied to work, and

2.80IF.3.d

such other aspects of the agency worker’s terms and conditions of work as the
Secretary of State may specify by regulations.

2.80IF.4

If an agency worker’s contract with a temporary work agency provides for the
agency worker to be supplied to work for a particular hirer for a period of 12
months or less—

2.80IF.4.a

there is to be regarded as being a lack of predictability as regards the
period for which the agency worker is supplied to work, and

2.80IF.4.b

the agency worker’s purpose in applying to the temporary work agency for a
change to the duration of the contract is to be regarded as being to get a
more predictable work pattern if the change would result in the contract
providing for the agency worker to be supplied to work for that hirer for a
period of more than 12 months beginning with the date of the change.

2.80IF.5

An application under this section must state that it is such an application
and—

2.80IF.5.a

in the case of an application to a temporary work agency—

2.80IF.5.a.i

specify the change applied for, and

2.80IF.5.a.ii

specify the date on which it is proposed the change should become effective,
and

2.80IF.5.b

in the case of an application to a hirer—

2.80IF.5.b.i

specify whether the application is for a contract of employment or for a
worker’s contract other than a contract of employment, and

2.80IF.5.b.ii

specify the date on which it is proposed the agency worker should start work
under the worker’s contract.

2.80IF.6

An application to a hirer for a contract of employment is to be treated as an
application for a contract—

2.80IF.6.a

for the agency worker to do the same or broadly similar work to the work that
the agency worker does for the hirer;

2.80IF.6.b

the relevant terms and conditions of which, taken as a whole, are not less
favourable than the relevant terms and conditions (if any) that, at the time
the application is made—

2.80IF.6.b.i

are ordinarily included in the contracts of employees of the hirer doing the
same or broadly similar work to the work that the agency worker does for the
hirer, having regard, where relevant, to whether they have a similar level of
qualification and skills, or

2.80IF.6.b.ii

would be ordinarily included in such contracts if the employer had any such
employees.

2.80IF.7

An application to a hirer for a worker’s contract other than a contract of
employment is to be treated as an application for a contract—

2.80IF.7.a

for the agency worker to do the same or broadly similar work to the work that
the agency worker does for the hirer;

2.80IF.7.b

the relevant terms and conditions of which, taken as a whole, are not less
favourable than the relevant terms and conditions (if any) that, at the time
the application is made—

2.80IF.7.b.i

are ordinarily included in the contracts of workers of the hirer who are not
employees and who are doing the same or broadly similar work to the work that
the agency worker does for the hirer, having regard, where relevant, to
whether they have a similar level of qualification and skills, or

2.80IF.7.b.ii

would be ordinarily included in such contracts if the employer had any such
workers.

2.80IF.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

2.80IF.8.a

the form of applications under this section, and

2.80IF.8.b

when such an application is to be taken to be made.

2.80IF.9

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
cases.

2.80IF.10

In this section “ relevant terms and conditions ” has the same meaning as in
regulation 5(2) of the Agency Workers Regulations 2010 (see regulation 6).

######## Restrictions on the making of an application under section 

2.80IG

2.80IG.1

An agency worker may only make an application under section  80IF  to a
temporary work agency if the agency worker also had a contract of the kind
mentioned in section  80IF (1)  with the temporary work agency (whether or not
the same contract) at some point during the month immediately preceding such
period, ending with the making of the application, as is specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

2.80IG.2

An agency worker may only make an application under section  80IF  to a hirer
if—

2.80IG.2.a

during such period, ending with the making of the application, as is specified
in regulations made by the Secretary of State the agency worker worked in the
same role with the same hirer for at least 12 continuous calendar weeks during
one or more assignments, and

2.80IG.2.b

the role that the agency worker had during those 12 continuous calendar weeks
is the same role in which the agency worker is working for the hirer at the
time the application is made.

2.80IG.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) —

2.80IG.3.a

whether or not an agency worker worked or works in the same role is to be
determined in accordance with regulation 7(3) of the Agency Workers
Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/93 );

2.80IG.3.b

whether or not an agency worker has worked for at least 12 continuous calendar
weeks is to be determined in accordance with regulation 7(4) to (11) of the
Agency Workers Regulations 2010 (and, accordingly, “ week ” has the same
meaning as it has in those provisions of those Regulations).

2.80IG.4

Section  80IF  is subject to section  80IM  (which restricts the right to make
multiple applications under this Part).

2.80IG.5

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
cases.

######## Temporary work agency’s and hirer’s duties in relation to an application under section 

2.80IH

2.80IH.1

A temporary work agency or a hirer to whom an application under section  80IF
is made—

2.80IH.1.a

must deal with the application in a reasonable manner,

2.80IH.1.b

must notify the agency worker of the decision on the application within the
decision period, and

2.80IH.1.c

may only reject the application because the temporary work agency or the hirer
(as the case may be) considers that one or more of the following grounds
applies—

2.80IH.1.c.i

the burden of additional costs,

2.80IH.1.c.ii

detrimental effect on ability to meet customer demand,

2.80IH.1.c.iii

detrimental impact on the recruitment of staff,

2.80IH.1.c.iv

detrimental impact on other aspects of the temporary work agency’s or hirer’s
business,

2.80IH.1.c.v

insufficiency of work during the periods the agency worker proposes to work,

2.80IH.1.c.vi

planned structural changes, and

2.80IH.1.c.vii

such other grounds as the Secretary of State may specify by regulations.

2.80IH.2

If a temporary work agency or a hirer allows an agency worker to appeal a
decision to reject an application, the reference in subsection  (1)(b)  to the
decision on the application is a reference to—

2.80IH.2.a

the decision on the appeal, or

2.80IH.2.b

if more than one appeal is allowed, the decision on the final appeal.

2.80IH.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b)  the decision period applicable to an
agency worker’s application under section  80IF  is the period of one month
beginning with the date on which the application is made.

2.80IH.4

An application under section  80IF  is to be treated as having been withdrawn
by the agency worker if—

2.80IH.4.a

the agency worker without good reason has failed to attend both the first
meeting arranged by the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may
be) to discuss the application and the next meeting arranged for that purpose,
or

2.80IH.4.b

where the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may be) allows the
agency worker to appeal a decision to reject an application or to make a
further appeal, the agency worker without good reason has failed to attend
both the first meeting arranged by the temporary work agency or the hirer to
discuss the appeal and the next meeting arranged for that purpose,

and the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may be) has notified
the agency worker that the temporary work agency or the hirer has decided to
treat that conduct of the agency worker as a withdrawal of the application.

######## Application of section 

2.80II

2.80II.1

Section  80IH (1)  applies even if—

2.80II.1.a

in the case of an application to a temporary work agency, the contract that
the agency worker has with the temporary work agency comes to an end during
the decision period;

2.80II.1.b

in the case of an application to a hirer, the agency worker stops working
under the supervision and direction of the hirer during the decision period.

2.80II.2

In a case falling within subsection  (1)(a) —

2.80II.2.a

the temporary work agency may also reject the application on the ground that—

2.80II.2.a.i

the agency worker terminated the contract (with or without notice) other than
in circumstances in which the agency worker was entitled to terminate it
without notice by reason of the temporary work agency’s conduct;

2.80II.2.a.ii

the temporary work agency terminated the contract (with or without notice) and
the temporary work agency’s reason for doing so (or, if more than one, the
temporary work agency’s principal reason for doing so) is a qualifying reason
and in the circumstances (including the size and administrative resources of
the temporary work agency’s undertaking) the temporary work agency acted
reasonably in treating the reason (or the principal reason) as a sufficient
reason for terminating the contract, and

2.80II.2.b

if the temporary work agency grants the application, the temporary work agency
must, before the end of the offer period, offer the agency worker a new
contract with terms and conditions that—

2.80II.2.b.i

taken as a whole, are not less favourable than the terms and conditions of the
contract that the agency worker had with the temporary work agency at the time
the application was made, and

2.80II.2.b.ii

reflect the change relating to the agency worker’s work pattern that was
applied for.

2.80II.3

In subsection  (2)(a)(ii)  “ qualifying reason ” means a reason falling within
subsection  (4)  or some other substantial reason of a kind such as to justify
the termination of the contract of an agency worker doing work of the kind
which the agency worker was supplied by the temporary work agency to do.

2.80II.4

A reason falls within this subsection if it—

2.80II.4.a

relates to the capability or qualifications of the agency worker to do work of
the kind which the agency worker was supplied by the temporary work agency to
do,

2.80II.4.b

relates to the conduct of the agency worker, or

2.80II.4.c

is that the agency worker could not continue to do work of the kind which the
agency worker was supplied by the temporary work agency to do without
contravention (whether on the part of the agency worker, on the part of the
temporary work agency or on the part of a hirer to whom the agency worker was
supplied) of a duty or restriction imposed by or under any legislation.

2.80II.5

In a case falling within subsection  (1)(b) , the hirer may also reject the
application on the ground that—

2.80II.5.a

the agency worker declined to continue working under the supervision and
direction of the hirer other than in circumstances in which the agency worker
was entitled to do so without notice by reason of the hirer’s conduct;

2.80II.5.b

the hirer told the temporary work agency, in accordance with the arrangements
between them, to stop supplying the agency worker and the hirer’s reason for
doing so (or, if more than one, the hirer’s principal reason for doing so) is
a qualifying reason and in the circumstances (including the size and
administrative resources of the hirer’s undertaking) the hirer acted
reasonably in treating the reason (or the principal reason) as a sufficient
reason for telling the temporary work agency to stop supplying the agency
worker.

2.80II.6

In subsection  (5)(b)  “ qualifying reason ” means a reason falling within
subsection  (7)  or some other substantial reason of a kind such as to justify
telling a temporary work agency to stop supplying an agency worker doing work
of the kind which the agency worker was supplied to the hirer to do.

2.80II.7

A reason falls within this subsection if it—

2.80II.7.a

relates to the capability or qualifications of the agency worker to do work of
the kind which the agency worker was supplied to the hirer to do,

2.80II.7.b

relates to the conduct of the agency worker, or

2.80II.7.c

is that the agency worker could not continue to do work of the kind which the
agency worker was supplied to the hirer to do without contravention (whether
on the part of the agency worker, on the part of the hirer or on the part of
the temporary work agency that supplied the agency worker) of a duty or
restriction imposed by or under any legislation.

2.80II.8

Regulations under section  80IH (1)(c)(vii)  may provide for a modified
version of a specified ground to apply in cases where—

2.80II.8.a

the contract that an agency worker has with a temporary work agency comes to
an end, or

2.80II.8.b

an agency worker stops working under the supervision and direction of a hirer.

2.80II.9

In this section—

      “ capability ”, in relation to an agency worker, means the agency
worker’s capability assessed by reference to skill, aptitude, health or any
other physical or mental quality;           “ decision period ”, in relation
to an application, has the same meaning as in section  80IH (1)(b)  (see
section  80IH (3) );           “ offer period ” means the period of two weeks
beginning with date on which the temporary work agency grants the application;
“ qualifications ”, in relation to an agency worker, means any degree, diploma
or other academic, technical or professional qualification relevant to the
work which the agency worker is supplied to the hirer to do.

######## Complaints to employment tribunals

2.80IJ

2.80IJ.1

An agency worker who makes an application under section  80IF  may present a
complaint to an employment tribunal—

2.80IJ.1.a

that the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may be) has failed in
relation to the application to comply with section  80IH (1)  (as read, where
applicable, with section  80II (2)(a)  or  (5) ),

2.80IJ.1.b

that the temporary work agency has failed, having granted the application, to
comply with section  80II (2)(b) ,

2.80IJ.1.c

that a decision by the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may be)
to reject the application was based on incorrect facts, or

2.80IJ.1.d

that the notification by the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case
may be) under section  80IH (4)  was given in circumstances that did not
satisfy one of the requirements in section  80IH (4)(a)  and  (b) .

2.80IJ.2

No complaint under subsection  (1)(a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  may be made in respect
of an application which has been disposed of by agreement or withdrawn.

2.80IJ.3

In the case of an application which has not been disposed of by agreement or
withdrawn—

2.80IJ.3.a

no complaint under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (c)  may be made until—

2.80IJ.3.a.i

the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may be) notifies the
agency worker of the decision on the application, or

2.80IJ.3.a.ii

if the decision period applicable to the application (see section  80IH (3) )
comes to an end without the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case
may be) notifying the agency worker of the decision on the application, the
end of the decision period;

2.80IJ.3.b

no complaint under subsection (1)(b) may be made until—

2.80IJ.3.b.i

the temporary work agency offers the agency worker a new contract, or

2.80IJ.3.b.ii

if the offer period applicable to the application (see section  80II (9) )
comes to an end without the temporary work agency offering the worker a new
contract, the end of the offer period.

2.80IJ.4

If a temporary work agency or a hirer allows an agency worker to appeal a
decision to reject an application, subsection  (3)(a)  applies as if the
references to the temporary work agency or the hirer (as the case may be)
notifying the agency worker of the decision on the application were references
to the temporary work agency or the hirer notifying the agency worker of the
decision on the appeal or, if more than one appeal is allowed, the decision on
the final appeal.

2.80IJ.5

A complaint under subsection  (1)(d)  may be made as soon as the notification
under section  80IH (4)  complained of is given to the agency worker.

2.80IJ.6

An employment tribunal may not consider a complaint under this section unless
it is presented—

2.80IJ.6.a

before the end of the period of three months beginning with the relevant date,
or

2.80IJ.6.b

within such further period as the tribunal considers reasonable in a case
where it is satisfied that it was not reasonably practicable for the complaint
to be presented before the end of that period of three months.

2.80IJ.7

In subsection  (6)(a) , the reference to the relevant date is a reference to
the first date on which the agency worker may make a complaint under
subsection  (1)(a) ,  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) , as the case may be.

2.80IJ.8

Section 207B (extension of time limits in certain circumstances) apply for the
purposes of subsection  (6)(a) .

######## Remedies

2.80IK

2.80IK.1

Where an employment tribunal finds a complaint under section  80IJ  well-
founded it must make a declaration to that effect and may—

2.80IK.1.a

make an order for reconsideration of the application, and

2.80IK.1.b

make an award of compensation to be paid by the temporary work agency or the
hirer (as the case may be) to the agency worker.

2.80IK.2

Where an employment tribunal makes an order under subsection  (1)(a) , section
80IH  is to apply as if the application had been made on the date of the
order.

2.80IK.3

The amount of compensation under subsection  (1)(b)  is to be such amount, not
exceeding the permitted maximum, as the tribunal considers just and equitable
in all the circumstances.

2.80IK.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , the permitted maximum is such number of
weeks’ pay as the Secretary of State may specify by regulations.

2.80IK.5

In calculating a week’s pay for the purposes of determining the permitted
maximum for an award of compensation to be paid by a temporary work agency to
an agency worker who is not an employee, Chapter 2 of Part 14 is to apply as
if—

2.80IK.5.a

references in that Chapter and in section 234 (normal working hours) to an
employee were references to the agency worker;

2.80IK.5.b

references in that Chapter and in section 234 to a contract of employment were
references to the agency worker’s contract with the temporary work agency and
references to employed and employment were construed accordingly;

2.80IK.5.c

references in that Chapter to an employer were references to the temporary
work agency;

2.80IK.5.d

the reference in section 228(3)(d) to other employers was a reference to other
temporary work agencies;

2.80IK.5.e

“week” meant—

2.80IK.5.e.i

where the agency worker’s remuneration is calculated weekly by a week ending
with a day other than a Saturday, a week ending with that other day, and

2.80IK.5.e.ii

where the agency worker’s remuneration is not so calculated, a week ending
with Saturday.

2.80IK.6

For the purposes of determining the permitted maximum for an award of
compensation to be paid by a hirer to an agency worker—

2.80IK.6.a

a week’s pay is the average weekly remuneration received by the agency worker,
in the relevant period, in relation to the assignment during which the agency
worker made the application under section  80IF ;

2.80IK.6.b

the reference in paragraph  (a)  to the relevant period is—

2.80IK.6.b.i

where the assignment mentioned in that paragraph ended on or before the date
the complaint was presented to the employment tribunal under section  80IJ , a
reference to the 12 week period (or, in a case where the assignment was
shorter than 12 weeks, that period) ending with the last day of the
assignment;

2.80IK.6.b.ii

where the assignment mentioned in that paragraph had not so ended, a reference
to the 12 week period (or, in a case where the assignment was shorter than 12
weeks, that period) ending with the date of the complaint.

2.80IK.7

Subsection  (6)(a)  is subject to section 227.

######## Interpretation of Chapter 3

2.80IL

2.80IL.1

“ Agency worker ” has the same meaning as in the Agency Workers Regulations
2010 ( S.I. 2010/93 ) (see regulation 3).

2.80IL.2

“ Assignment ” has the same meaning as in the Agency Workers Regulations 2010
(see regulation 2).

2.80IL.3

“ Hirer ” has the same meaning as in the Agency Workers Regulations 2010 (see
regulation 2).

2.80IL.4

“ Temporary work agency ” has the same meaning as in the Agency Workers
Regulations 2010 (see regulation 4) and includes, where the context requires,
a former temporary work agency.

2.80IL.5

“ Work pattern ” has the meaning given by section  80IF (3) .

### Restrictions on multiple applications to vary terms and conditions

3

3.1

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended in accordance with this section.

3.2

After section  80IL  (inserted by section 2) insert—

######### Restrictions on multiple applications under this Part

########## No more than two applications to be made in any 12 month period

3.2.80IM

3.2.80IM.1

This section limits the number of statutory applications to vary terms and
conditions that may be made by one person (W) to another person (E) during any
period of 12 months.

3.2.80IM.2

During any period of 12 months—

3.2.80IM.2.a

a maximum of two statutory applications to vary terms and conditions may be
made by W to E for the purpose of improving predictability, and

3.2.80IM.2.b

a maximum of two applications under section 80F may made by W to E otherwise
than for the purpose of improving predictability.

3.2.80IM.3

For the purposes of this section and section  80IN , each of the following is
a statutory application to vary terms and conditions made by W to E—

3.2.80IM.3.a

an application made under section 80F by W (as the qualifying employee) to E
(as the employer);

3.2.80IM.3.b

an application made under section  80IA  by W (as the worker) to E (as the
worker’s employer);

3.2.80IM.3.c

an application made under section  80IF (1)  by W (as the agency worker) to E
(as the temporary work agency);

3.2.80IM.3.d

an application made under section  80IF (2)  by W (as the agency worker) to E
(as the hirer).

3.2.80IM.4

For the purposes of this section a statutory application to vary terms and
conditions is made for the purpose of improving predictability if it is—

3.2.80IM.4.a

an application made under section 80F where—

3.2.80IM.4.a.i

the change applied for related to W’s work pattern, and

3.2.80IM.4.a.ii

the change had, or would have had (if it had been made), the effect of making
W’s work pattern more predictable, or

3.2.80IM.4.b

an application made under section  80IA ,  80IF (1)  or  80IF (2) .

3.2.80IM.5

In this section “ work pattern ” has the same meaning as in section  80IA
(see section  80IA (2) ).

########## No new applications while an earlier application is proceeding

3.2.80IN

3.2.80IN.1

A person (W) may not make a statutory application to vary terms and conditions
to a particular person (E) if another statutory application to vary terms and
conditions to E is proceeding.

3.2.80IN.2

For the purposes of this section an application is “proceeding” during any of
these periods—

3.2.80IN.2.a

the period—

3.2.80IN.2.a.i

beginning when the application is made, and

3.2.80IN.2.a.ii

ending when the application is concluded;

3.2.80IN.2.b

any period—

3.2.80IN.2.b.i

beginning when an appeal against a decision to refuse the application is
brought, and

3.2.80IN.2.b.ii

ending when the appeal is concluded;

3.2.80IN.2.c

any period—

3.2.80IN.2.c.i

beginning when, in accordance with section 80G(1C)(b), the decision period for
an application or appeal is extended with retrospective effect, and

3.2.80IN.2.c.ii

ending when the application or appeal is concluded.

3.2.80IN.3

For that purpose, an application or appeal is “concluded” when any of these
events occurs—

3.2.80IN.3.a

a decision is made on the application or appeal under section 80G,  80IC  or
80IH ;

3.2.80IN.3.b

the application or appeal is withdrawn;

3.2.80IN.3.c

the application or appeal is disposed of by agreement;

3.2.80IN.3.d

the decision period specified in section 80G,  80IC (7) ,  80IH (3)  for the
application or appeal ends without a decision, withdrawal or agreed disposal.

### Extent, commencement and short title

4

4.1

This Act extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

4.2

Sections 1 to 3 and the Schedule come into force on such day as the Secretary
of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint; and
different days may be appointed for different purposes.

4.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may make—

4.3.a

incidental, supplementary or consequential provision, or

4.3.b

transitional provision or savings.

4.4

This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

4.5

This Act may be cited as the Workers (Predictable Terms and Conditions) Act
2023.

  Amendments of other legislation

Section 1

##### Existing legislation

###### Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 (c. 52)

1

In section 212A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act
1992 (arbitration scheme for unfair dismissal cases etc), in subsection (1),
after paragraph (za) insert—

1.zb

section  80IC (1)  or  (3)(b) ,  80ID (1)(c) ,  80IH (1) ,  80II (2)(b)  or
80IJ (1)(c)  of that Act (predictable work pattern),

.

###### Employment Tribunals Act 1996 (c. 17)

2

In section 18 of the Employment Tribunals Act 1996 (conciliation: relevant
proceedings etc), in subsection (1)(b), after “80H,” insert  “ 80ID ,  80IJ ,”
.

###### Employment Rights Act 1996 (c. 18)

3

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

4

After section 47E insert—

########## Predictable work pattern

4.47EA

4.47EA.1

A worker has the right not to be subjected to any detriment by any act, or any
deliberate failure to act, by the worker’s employer done on the ground that
the worker—

4.47EA.1.a

made (or proposed to make) an application under section  80IA  to the
employer,

4.47EA.1.b

brought proceedings against the employer under section  80ID , or

4.47EA.1.c

alleged the existence of any circumstance which would constitute a ground for
bringing such proceedings.

4.47EA.2

This section does not apply where—

4.47EA.2.a

the worker is an employee, and

4.47EA.2.b

the detriment in question amounts to dismissal within the meaning of Part 10.

5

After section 47EA (as inserted by paragraph  4 ) insert—

########## Predictable work pattern: agency workers

5.47EB

5.47EB.1

An agency worker has the right not to be subjected to any detriment by any
act, or any deliberate failure to act, by a temporary work agency or a hirer
done on the ground that the agency worker—

5.47EB.1.a

made (or proposed to make) an application under section  80IF  to the
temporary work agency or (as the case may be) the hirer,

5.47EB.1.b

brought proceedings against the temporary work agency or (as the case may be)
the hirer under section  80IJ , or

5.47EB.1.c

alleged the existence of any circumstance which would constitute a ground for
bringing such proceedings.

5.47EB.2

This section does not apply where—

5.47EB.2.a

the agency worker is an employee, and

5.47EB.2.b

the detriment in question amounts to dismissal within the meaning of Part 10.

5.47EB.3

In this section, “ agency worker ”, “ hirer ” and “ temporary work agency ”
have the same meaning as in Chapter 3 of Part 8B (see section  80IL ).

6

6.1

Section 48 (enforcement) is amended as follows.

6.2

After subsection (1B) insert—

6.2.1C

A worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the worker has
been subjected to a detriment in contravention of section  47EA .

6.3

After subsection (1C) (as inserted by sub-paragraph  (2) ) insert—

6.3.1D

An agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the
agency worker has been subjected to a detriment in contravention of section
47EB  by a temporary work agency or a hirer.

6.4

In subsection (2), for “or (1B)” substitute  “, (1B) or  (1C) ” .

6.5

In subsection (2A), after “(1AA)” insert  “or  (1D) ” .

7

7.1

Section 49 (remedies) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1), for “or (1B)” substitute  “, (1B) or (1C)” .

7.3

In subsection (1A), after “section 48(1AA)” insert  “or  (1D) ” .

7.4

At the end insert—

7.4.8

Where—

7.4.8.a

the complaint is made under section 48(1C),

7.4.8.b

the detriment to which the worker is subjected is the termination of the
worker’s contract, and

7.4.8.c

that contract is not a contract of employment,

any compensation must not exceed the compensation that would be payable under
Chapter 2 of Part 10 if the worker had been an employee and had been dismissed
for the reason specified in section 104CA.

8

8.1

Section 80F (statutory right to request contract variation) is amended as
follows.

8.2

In subsection (2)—

8.2.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

8.2.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

8.3

For subsection (4) substitute—

8.3.4

This section is subject to section  80IM  (which restricts the right to make
multiple applications under this Part).

8.4

For alternative provision about the amendment of section 80F, see paragraphs
21  and  22  of this Schedule.

9

After section 104C insert—

########## Predictable work pattern

9.104CA

 An employee who is dismissed is to be regarded for the purposes of this Part
as unfairly dismissed if the reason (or, if more than one, the principal
reason) for the dismissal is that the employee—

9.104CA.a

made (or proposed to make) an application under section  80IA  or  80IF ,

9.104CA.b

brought proceedings against the employer under section  80ID  or  80IJ , or

9.104CA.c

alleged the existence of any circumstance which would constitute a ground for
bringing such proceedings.

10

In section 105 (redundancy), after subsection (7BA) insert—

10.7BAA

This subsection applies if the reason (or, if more than one, the principal
reason) for which the employee was selected for dismissal was one of those
specified in section 104CA.

11

In section 108 (qualifying period of employment), in subsection (3), after
paragraph (gi) insert—

11.gia

section 104CA applies,

.

12

In section 192 (armed forces), in subsection (2)(e), after “104C,” insert
“104CA,” .

13

In section 194 (House of Lords staff), in subsection (2)(c), for “and 47E”
substitute  “, 47E and  47EA ” .

14

In section 195 (House of Commons staff), in subsection (2)(c), for “and 47E”
substitute  “, 47E and  47EA ” .

15

In section 199 (mariners), in subsection (2), after “47E,” insert  “47EA,” .

16

16.1

Section 205A (employee shareholders) is amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

16.2.ba

the right to make an application under section  80IA  (request for predictable
work pattern),

.

16.3

After subsection (8) insert—

16.3.8A

The reference in subsection (2)(ba) to making an application under section
80IA  does not include a reference to making an application within the period
of 14 days beginning with the day on which the employee shareholder returns to
work from a period of parental leave under regulations under section 76.

17

In section 225 (calculation date for purposes of working out a week’s pay), at
the end insert—

17.7

Where the calculation is for the purposes of section  80IE , the calculation
date is the day on which the application under section  80IA  was made.

17.8

Where the calculation date is for the purposes of section  80IK , the
calculation date is the day on which the application under section  80IF  was
made.

18

In section 227 (maximum amount of week’s pay), in subsection (1), after
paragraph (za) insert—

18.zb

an award of compensation under section  80IE (1)(b) ,

18.zc

an award of compensation under section  80IK (1)(b) ,

.

19

In section 235 (other definitions), in subsection (1), in paragraph (b) of the
definition of “week”, after “80EA” insert  “,  80IG (2)  and  (3) ” .

20

In section 236 (orders and regulations), in subsection (3) (instruments
subject to affirmative procedure), after “80G,” insert  “ 80IC ,  80IH ,” .

##### Legislation in Parliament at the same time as this Act

###### Employment Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023

21

21.1

This paragraph makes provision to deal with the consequences of this Act
coming into force before the Employment Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023.

21.2

In section 1 of the Employment Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023 (flexible
working), omit subsections (2) and (3) (which are superseded by the provision
made by paragraph  8  of this Schedule).

21.3

Omit paragraph  22  of this Schedule.

22

22.1

This paragraph makes provision to deal with the consequences of the Employment
Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023 coming into force before this Act.

22.2

Omit paragraph  8  of this Schedule.

22.3

In section 80F (statutory right to request contract variation), for
subsections (4) to (4B) (inserted by section 1(3) of the Employment Relations
(Flexible Working) Act 2023) substitute—

22.3.4

This section is subject to section  80IM  (which restricts the right to make
multiple applications under this Part).

22.4

Omit paragraph  21  of this Schedule.

