Title: Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones) (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-09-16
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/10

## Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones) (Scotland) Act 2024

### Establishment of safe access zones for protected premises

#### Meaning of “protected premises”

1

In this Act, “ protected premises ” means—

1.a

a building—

1.a.i

that is, contains or forms part of a hospital, and

1.a.ii

in which abortion services are provided, or

1.b

a place that is approved under section 1(3) of the Abortion Act 1967 for the
purposes of that section but does not include a place forming part of a class
of place that is so approved (see section 1(3A)(a) of that Act).

#### Establishment of safe access zones

2

2.1

A safe access zone is established for each protected premises in accordance
with this section.

2.2

A safe access zone for protected premises consists of—

2.2.a

the protected premises,

2.2.b

the public area of the grounds (if any), and

2.2.c

each public area of land within 200 metres (or such other distance as extended
under  section 7  or reduced under  section 8 ) of the boundary of the
protected site.

2.3

The Scottish Ministers must—

2.3.a

on the day on which this section comes into force, publish a list of protected
premises and the safe access zone for each protected premises, and

2.3.b

maintain the list in accordance with this Act.

2.4

The list maintained under  subsection (3) (b)  must, for each protected
premises—

2.4.a

identify the protected premises by name and address,

2.4.b

if there are grounds, identify the boundary of the grounds by reference to a
map,

2.4.c

specify the distance of the boundary of the safe access zone from the boundary
of the protected site,

2.4.d

identify the boundary of the safe access zone by reference to a map, and

2.4.e

specify the day on which the safe access zone takes effect.

2.5

In  subsection (4) , references to “protected premises” include references to
proposed protected premises notified under  section 3 (2) .

2.6

A safe access zone for protected premises (or proposed protected premises)
takes effect—

2.6.a

at the beginning of the day on which this section comes into force except in a
case mentioned in  paragraph (b) ,

2.6.b

at the beginning of the day specified in the list maintained by the Scottish
Ministers under  subsection (3) (b)  in the case of—

2.6.b.i

the notification of proposed protected premises under  section 3 (2) ,

2.6.b.ii

the updating of the list in accordance with  section 3 (4)  where the Scottish
Ministers become aware of protected premises without such notification,

2.6.b.iii

the extension of a safe access zone under  section 7 (2) ,  (3)  or  (5) ,

2.6.b.iv

the reduction of a safe access zone under  section 8 (1) .

2.7

In this section—

      “ grounds ”, in relation to protected premises, means land adjacent to
and associated with the protected premises,           “ protected site ” means
the protected premises and any grounds,           “ public area ”, in relation
to land, means—         an outdoor area of land that the public may access,
and           any partially enclosed structure on the land that the public may
access.

#### Notification of proposed protected premises etc.

3

3.1

Subsection (2)  applies where, after  section 1  comes into force, abortion
services are intended to be provided at premises (“proposed protected
premises”) being—

3.1.a

a building that is, contains or forms part of a hospital, or

3.1.b

a place that is approved under section 1(3) of the Abortion Act 1967 for the
purposes of that section but does not include a place forming part of a class
of place that is so approved (see section 1(3A)(a) of that Act).

3.2

The operator of the proposed protected premises must notify the Scottish
Ministers of the day on which the operator intends to start providing abortion
services at the proposed protected premises.

3.3

Where the Scottish Ministers receive notification under  subsection (2) , they
must update the list maintained under  section 2 (3) (b) .

3.4

If, after section 1 comes into force, the Scottish Ministers become aware that
abortion services are being provided at protected premises and no notification
has been given in respect of the protected premises in accordance with
subsection (2) , the Scottish Ministers must update the list maintained under
section 2 (3) (b) .

3.5

Where the Scottish Ministers update the list in accordance with subsection (3)
or (4), the day specified for the purposes of section 2(4)(e) as the day on
which the safe access zone takes effect must be no earlier than the end of the
period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the list is updated.

### Offences relating to safe access zones

#### Offence of influencing, preventing access or causing harassment etc. in safe access zone

4

4.1

A person who is in a safe access zone for protected premises commits an
offence if the person does an act with the intention of, or is reckless as to
whether the act has the effect of—

4.1.a

influencing the decision of another person to access, provide or facilitate
the provision of abortion services at the protected premises,

4.1.b

preventing or impeding another person from accessing, providing or
facilitating the provision of abortion services at the protected premises, or

4.1.c

causing harassment, alarm or distress to another person in connection with the
other person’s decision to access, provide or facilitate the provision of
abortion services at the protected premises,

where in each case the other person is in the safe access zone for the purpose
of accessing, providing or facilitating the provision of abortion services at
the protected premises.

4.2

Where a person does an act in a safe access zone constituting an offence under
subsection (1)  and the act has a continuing effect, it does not matter for
the purpose of that subsection whether the other person referred to in the
subsection is in the safe access zone at the time the person does the act.

4.3

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

4.3.a

on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum,

4.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

#### Offence of influencing, preventing access or causing harassment etc. in area visible or audible from safe access zone

5

5.1

A person who is in a relevant area relating to protected premises commits an
offence if the person—

5.1.a

does an act that is capable of being seen or heard by another person who is
within the safe access zone for the protected premises, and

5.1.b

does so with the intention of, or is reckless as to whether the act has the
effect of—

5.1.b.i

influencing the decision of another person to access, provide or facilitate
the provision of abortion services at the protected premises,

5.1.b.ii

preventing or impeding another person from accessing, providing or
facilitating the provision of abortion services at the protected premises, or

5.1.b.iii

causing harassment, alarm or distress to another person in connection with the
other person’s decision to access, provide or facilitate the provision of
abortion services at the protected premises,

where in each case the other person is in the safe access zone for the
protected premises for the purpose of accessing, providing or facilitating the
provision of abortion services at the protected premises.

5.2

In  subsection (1) , the reference to an act that is capable of being seen or
heard by another person does not include an act that is capable of being seen
or heard by the other person only indirectly by means of seeing or hearing a
recording or transmission of the act received by the other person by
electronic means.

5.3

Where a person does an act in a relevant area relating to protected premises
constituting an offence under  subsection (1)  and the act has a continuing
effect, it does not matter for the purpose of that subsection whether any
other person referred to in the subsection is in the safe access zone for the
protected premises at the time the person does the act.

5.4

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

5.4.a

on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum,

5.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

5.5

In this section, “ relevant area ”, in relation to protected premises, means
an area that is not a public area (within the meaning of  section 2 (7) )
forming part of the safe access zone for the protected premises but which is
situated within the area between the protected premises and the boundary of
the safe access zone.

#### Exceptions to offences

6

A person does not commit an offence under  section 4 (1)  or  5 (1)  where the
person does anything in the course of—

6.a

accompanying with permission another person who is accessing (or attempting to
access) abortion services at protected premises but only to the extent that
the person’s act affects the other person,

6.b

providing, or facilitating the provision of, abortion services at protected
premises,

6.c

providing other health care at protected premises,

6.d

engaging in conduct that is lawful under section 220 (peaceful picketing) of
the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992.

### Changes to safe access zones

#### Extension of safe access zones

7

7.1

If an operator of protected premises considers that the condition mentioned in
subsection (4)  is met, the operator may apply to the Scottish Ministers for
an extension of the distance between the boundary of the protected site and
the boundary of the safe access zone to an extent that the operator considers
appropriate.

7.2

The Scottish Ministers may approve an application made under  subsection (1)
if they are satisfied that it is appropriate to do so.

7.3

If the Scottish Ministers consider that the condition mentioned in  subsection
(4)  is met, they may of their own accord extend the distance between the
boundary of the protected site and the boundary of the safe access zone to an
extent that they consider appropriate.

7.4

The condition referred to in subsections  (1)  and  (3)  is that the safe
access zone does not adequately protect persons who are accessing, providing
or facilitating the provision of abortion services at the related protected
premises from any act of a type mentioned in  section 4 (1)  or  5 (1) .

7.5

Where the Scottish Ministers extend a safe access zone for protected premises
under  subsection (2)  or  (3) , they may, for one or more other protected
premises, extend the distance between the boundary of the protected site and
the boundary of the safe access zone (to an extent that they consider
appropriate) if they consider it appropriate to do so.

7.6

The Scottish Ministers may extend the distance mentioned in subsection (5) in
relation to other protected premises by a different extent for different
premises.

7.7

Before extending a safe access zone under subsection (2), the Scottish
Ministers must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

7.8

Before extending a safe access zone under subsection (3) or (5), the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

7.8.a

either—

7.8.a.i

the operator of the protected premises, or

7.8.a.ii

such persons as they consider representative of the interests of operators,
and

7.8.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

7.9

Where the Scottish Ministers extend a safe access zone under  subsection (2) ,
(3)  or  (5) , they must update the list maintained under  section 2 (3) (b) .

7.10

Where the Scottish Ministers update the list in accordance with  subsection
(9) , the day specified for the purposes of  section 2 (4) (e)  as the day on
which the extended safe access zone takes effect must be no earlier than the
end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the list is
updated.

#### Reduction of safe access zones

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers may reduce the distance between the boundary of the
protected site and the boundary of the safe access zone for one or more
protected premises if they consider it appropriate to do so.

8.2

Before reducing a safe access zone under subsection (1), the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

8.2.a

either—

8.2.a.i

the operator of the protected premises, or

8.2.a.ii

such persons as they consider representative of the interests of operators,
and

8.2.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

8.3

Where the Scottish Ministers reduce a safe access zone under  subsection (1) ,
they must update the list maintained under  section 2 (3) (b) .

8.4

Where the Scottish Ministers update the list in accordance with  subsection
(3) , the day specified for the purposes of  section 2 (4) (e)  as the day on
which the reduced safe access zone takes effect must be no earlier than the
day on which the list is updated.

#### Cessation of safe access zones

9

9.1

If an operator of protected premises intends to cease providing abortion
services at the protected premises, the operator must, as soon as practicable,
notify the Scottish Ministers of the day on which abortion services will cease
to be provided at the protected premises.

9.2

Where the Scottish Ministers receive notification under  subsection (1) , they
must, as soon as practicable after abortion services cease to be provided at
the protected premises, update the list maintained under  section 2 (3) (b) .

#### Report on changes to safe access zones

10

10.1

Subsection (2)  applies where the Scottish Ministers have updated the list
maintained under  section 2 (3) (b)  in accordance with  section 7 (9)  or  8
(3) .

10.2

The Scottish Ministers must, no later than 7 days after the day on which the
list is updated, lay a report before the Scottish Parliament setting out the
reasons for the change to the safe access zone (or zones) concerned.

#### Power to modify meaning of “protected premises”

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “protected
premises” in  section 1  to include—

11.1.a

a class of place, or a place forming part of a class of place, mentioned in
section 1(3A)(a) of the Abortion Act 1967 that is approved under section 1(3)
of that Act for the purposes of that section,

11.1.b

a building or place at which treatments or services relating to abortion
services are provided.

11.2

The Scottish Ministers may exercise the power in  subsection (1) (b)  in
relation to a building or place mentioned in that subsection only if they
consider that it is necessary to establish a safe access zone in relation to
that building or place to protect persons who are accessing, providing or
facilitating the provision of treatments or services relating to abortion
services at the building or place against an act mentioned in  subsection (3)
.

11.3

The act referred to in  subsection (2)  is an act of a type mentioned in
section 4 (1)  or  5 (1)  but the references in those subsections to—

11.3.a

“protected premises” are to be read as if they were references to a building
or place mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) , and

11.3.b

“abortion services at the protected premises” are to be read as if they were
references to treatments or services relating to abortion services at a
building or place mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) .

11.4

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (1) (b)  before the Scottish Parliament in
relation to a building or place, the Scottish Ministers—

11.4.a

must consult—

11.4.a.i

the provider of the treatments or services at the building or place, or

11.4.a.ii

the operator of the building or place, and

11.4.b

if they consider it appropriate to do so, must consult—

11.4.b.i

the Health Board in whose area the building or place is situated,

11.4.b.ii

the local authority in whose area the building or place is situated,

11.4.b.iii

any other person they consider has an interest in the building or place
becoming protected premises for the purpose of this Act.

11.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

11.5.a

make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision,

11.5.b

make different provision for different purposes.

11.6

Regulations under  subsection (1) (b)  may modify this Act where such
modification is consequential to the modification of the definition of
“protected premises”.

11.7

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

### Ministerial guidance

#### Ministerial guidance

12

12.1

An operator of protected premises (or proposed protected premises) must have
regard to any guidance given by the Scottish Ministers in relation to
protected premises (or proposed protected premises) and the establishment,
extension, reduction or cessation of safe access zones for protected premises.

12.2

The Scottish Ministers—

12.2.a

must publish any such guidance, and

12.2.b

may revise or revoke that guidance.

### Review of Act

#### Review of Act

13

13.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of the review period—

13.1.a

undertake a review of the operation and effectiveness of the Act, and

13.1.b

prepare a report on that review.

13.2

The Scottish Ministers may delegate their functions under subsection (1) to
such a person as they consider appropriate.

13.3

When undertaking a review under subsection (1)(a), the Scottish Ministers (or,
if applicable, the person to whom the function is delegated under subsection
(2)) must consult—

13.3.a

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

13.3.b

the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service,

13.3.c

operators of protected premises or such persons as are considered
representative of the interests of operators, and

13.3.d

such other persons as are considered appropriate.

13.4

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
report is prepared—

13.4.a

publish the report, and

13.4.b

lay it before the Scottish Parliament.

13.5

In this section, “ the review period ” means—

13.5.a

the period of 2 years beginning with the day on which section 2 comes into
force, and

13.5.b

each subsequent period of 3 years.

### General provisions

#### Ancillary power

14

14.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

14.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

14.3

Regulations under  subsection (1) —

14.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act (including this Act), but

14.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Interpretation

15

In this Act—

      “ abortion services ” means any treatment for the termination of
pregnancy authorised under the Abortion Act 1967,           “ Health Board ”
means a Health Board constituted under section 2(1)(a) of the National Health
Service (Scotland) Act 1978,           “ hospital ” means a hospital vested in
the Scottish Ministers for the purpose of their functions under the National
Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978,           “ operator ”, in relation to
protected premises or proposed protected premises, means—         where the
premises are or form part of a hospital, the Health Board in whose area the
hospital is situated,           where the premises are a place approved under
section 1(3) of the Abortion Act 1967 to provide abortion services, the person
who is registered by virtue of section 10P of the National Health Service
(Scotland) Act 1978 as managing the services,                 “ proposed
protected premises ” has the meaning given in  section 3 (1) ,           “
protected premises ” has the meaning given in  section 1 ,           “
protected site ” has the meaning given in section 2(7),           “ safe
access zone ”, in relation to protected premises, is to be construed in
accordance with  section 2 .

#### Crown application

16

16.1

Nothing in this Act makes the Crown criminally liable.

16.2

But the Court of Session may, on the application of the Lord Advocate, declare
unlawful any act or omission for which the Crown would be criminally liable if
it were not for  subsection (1) .

16.3

Subsection (1)  does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

#### Commencement

17

17.1

This section and sections  14 ,  15 ,  16  and  18  come into force on the day
after Royal Assent.

17.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

17.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

17.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

17.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

18

The short title of this Act is the Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones)
(Scotland) Act 2024.

