Title: Budget (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-04-15
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/3

## Budget (Scotland) Act 2024

### Financial year 2024/25

#### Use of resources etc.

##### The Scottish Administration

1

1.1

The Scottish Administration may use resources in financial year 2024/25 for
the purposes specified in column 1 of  schedule 1 —

1.1.a

in the case of resources other than accruing resources, up to the amounts
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that schedule,

1.1.b

in the case of accruing resources, up to the amounts specified in the
corresponding entries in column 3 of that schedule.

1.2

Despite paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  subsection (1) , the resources which
may be used for a purpose specified in column 1 may exceed the amount
specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 or (as the case may be)
column 3 if—

1.2.a

in the case of resources other than accruing resources, the first condition is
met,

1.2.b

in the case of accruing resources, the second condition is met.

1.3

The first condition is that the total resources (other than accruing
resources) used in financial year 2024/25 for all purposes specified in column
1 does not exceed the total of the amounts specified in column 2.

1.4

The second condition is that the total accruing resources used in financial
year 2024/25 for all purposes specified in column 1 does not exceed the total
of the amounts specified in column 3.

##### Direct-funded bodies

2

2.1

A direct-funded body may use resources in financial year 2024/25 for the
purposes specified in column 1 of  schedule 2  in relation to the body.

2.2

Resources other than accruing resources may be used for those purposes up to
the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that
schedule.

2.3

Accruing resources may be used for those purposes up to the amounts specified
in the corresponding entries in column 3 of that schedule.

##### Borrowing by statutory bodies

3

In  schedule 3 , the amounts set out in column 2 are the amounts specified for
financial year 2024/25 for the purposes of the enactments listed in the
corresponding entries in column 1 (which make provision as to the net
borrowing of the statutory bodies mentioned in that column).

#### The Scottish Consolidated Fund

##### Overall cash authorisations

4

4.1

For the purposes of section 4(2) of the PFA Act 2000, the overall cash
authorisations for financial year 2024/25 are as follows.

4.2

In relation to the Scottish Administration, £54,785,698,458.

4.3

In relation to the direct-funded bodies—

4.3.a

the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body, £126,521,000,

4.3.b

Audit Scotland, £12,362,000.

##### Contingency payments

5

5.1

This section  applies where, in financial year 2024/25, it is proposed to pay
out of the Scottish Consolidated Fund under section 65(1)(c) of the Scotland
Act 1998—

5.1.a

for or in connection with expenditure of the Scottish Administration, a sum
which does not fall within the amount specified in  section 4 (2)  in relation
to it, or

5.1.b

for or in connection with expenditure of a direct-funded body, a sum which
does not fall within the amount specified in  section 4 (3)  in relation to
the body.

5.2

The sum may be paid out of the Fund only if its payment is authorised by the
Scottish Ministers.

5.3

The Scottish Ministers may authorise payment of the sum only if they consider
that—

5.3.a

the payment is necessarily required in the public interest to meet urgent
expenditure for a purpose falling within section 65(2) of the Scotland Act
1998, and

5.3.b

it is not reasonably practicable, for reasons of urgency, to amend the overall
cash authorisation by regulations under  section 7 .

5.4

But the Scottish Ministers must not authorise payment of the sum if it would
result in an excess of sums paid out of the Fund over sums paid into the Fund.

5.5

The aggregate amount of the sums which the Scottish Ministers may authorise to
be paid out of the Fund under  this section  must not exceed £50,000,000.

5.6

Where the Scottish Ministers authorise a payment under  this section  they
must, as soon as possible, lay before the Scottish Parliament a report setting
out the circumstances of the authorisation and why they considered it to be
necessary.

### Financial year 2025/26

#### Emergency arrangements

6

6.1

This section  applies if, at the beginning of financial year 2025/26, there is
no overall cash authorisation for that year for the purposes of section 4(2)
of the PFA Act 2000.

6.2

Until there is in force a Budget Act providing such authorisation, there is to
be taken to be an overall cash authorisation for each calendar month of that
year in relation to each of—

6.2.a

the Scottish Administration,

6.2.b

the direct-funded bodies,

of an amount determined under  subsection (3) .

6.3

That amount is whichever is the greater of—

6.3.a

one-twelfth of the amount specified in  section 4 (2)  or  (3)  in relation to
the Scottish Administration or (as the case may be) the direct-funded body in
question,

6.3.b

the amount paid out of the Scottish Consolidated Fund under section 65(1)(c)
of the Scotland Act 1998 in the corresponding calendar month of financial year
2024/25 for or in connection with expenditure of the Scottish Administration
or (as the case may be) that direct-funded body.

6.4

Section 4 of the PFA Act 2000 has effect accordingly.

6.5

This section  is subject to any provision made by a Budget Act for financial
year 2025/26.

### Miscellaneous

#### Amendment and repeal

##### Budget revision regulations

7

7.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend—

7.1.a

the amounts specified in  section 4 (2)  and  (3) ,

7.1.b

schedules 1  to  3 .

7.2

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Repeal of spent provisions

8

Part 2 (financial year 2024/25) of the Budget (Scotland) Act 2023 is repealed.

#### Final provisions

##### Interpretation

9

9.1

In this Act, the “ PFA Act 2000 ” means the Public Finance and Accountability
(Scotland) Act 2000.

9.2

References in this Act to accruing resources in relation to the Scottish
Administration or a direct-funded body are to such resources accruing to the
Administration or (as the case may be) that body in financial year 2024/25.

9.3

References in this Act to the direct-funded bodies are to the bodies listed in
section 4 (3)  (and references to a direct-funded body are to either of those
bodies).

9.4

Except where otherwise expressly provided, expressions used in this Act and in
the PFA Act 2000 have the same meanings in this Act as they have in that Act.

##### Commencement

10

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

##### Short title

11

The short title of this Act is the Budget (Scotland) Act 2024.

  The Scottish Administration

(introduced by section 1)

    Purposes Amount of resources, other than accruing resources (£) Amount of
accruing resources (£)   1. Through their NHS Recovery, Health and Social Care
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; hospital and community health services; family health
services, including local GP practices, pharmacy, dental and ophthalmic
services; community care; mental health services; capital investment; health
and social care integration outcomes framework; delivery of services by
digital means and communication; care, support and rights; social care
support; early years; other health and social care services; the Independent
Living Fund Scotland; the Mental Welfare Commission for Scotland; Social Care
and Social Work Improvement Scotland; the Scottish Sports Council; Active
Healthy Lives. 19,558,565,000 3,000,000,000 2. Through their Social Justice
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; grant assistance and funding of strategic programmes to
create the best conditions for the third sector and volunteering to thrive;
building standards; housing subsidies and guarantees; repayment of debt and
associated costs; other expenditure, contributions and grants relating to
housing; funding for the Scottish Fuel Poverty Advisory Panel; activities
relating to homelessness; research and publicity and other portfolio services;
grants to local authorities and registered social landlords; loans to
individuals; assessment and remediation of buildings within the scope of the
Cladding Remediation Programme; development of the cladding assurance
register; funding for the Household Survey; social justice activities,
including tackling poverty and inequality with a particular focus on child
poverty; grants and loans to organisations; funding for advice and advocacy
services; funding to support the design, development and implementation of
social security powers; funding for Social Security Scotland; funding for the
Scottish Commission on Social Security; funding of payments of social security
assistance; funding to tackle poverty; grant assistance; funding of strategic
contracts; expenditure relating to equality and human rights issues, including
delivering an Anti-Racism Observatory, eradicating violence against women and
girls, and grants to organisations; expenditure relating to tackling hate
crime; expenditure relating to supporting people who are destitute, including
refugees and asylum seekers, and in particular the Warm Scots Welcome scheme
for resettling displaced people from Ukraine in Scotland; expenditure relating
to community support, resilience and engagement; talent attraction and
retention. 7,564,014,000 90,000,000 3. Through their Wellbeing Economy, Net
Zero and Energy portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational
and administrative costs; expenditure on committees, commissions and other
portfolio services; support for Growth Accelerator programmes; grant in aid
for Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and Islands Enterprise and South of
Scotland Enterprise; industry, innovation, entrepreneurship and
technology/digital grants and support for low carbon economy; sundry
enterprise-related activities; expenditure in relation to the running costs of
the Office of the Chief Economic Adviser; grant in aid for the Scottish
National Investment Bank; European Structural Fund grants to the Enterprise
Networks, local authorities, further and higher education institutions, third
sector bodies and other eligible bodies and organisations; costs of delivery
and evaluation of European Structural Fund; funding for employment support,
learning opportunities, workforce development and supporting fair work
principles; funding for City and Regional Growth Deals; support for Ferguson
Marine; VisitScotland; tourism; digital and broadband connectivity; support
for inward trade and investment and exports; investment in energy
decarbonisation and hydrogen, carbon capture, utilisation and storage and
negative emissions technologies; Fuel Insecurity Fund; support of offshore
wind supply chain opportunities; funding for domestic energy efficiency,
insulation and refurbishment projects; funding for domestic and non-domestic
energy-related activities; action to prevent waste, improve recycling, reduce
emissions from waste, tackle litter and deliver a circular economy strategy;
addressing biodiversity loss and nature restoration; environmental protection;
other environmental expenditure; flood prevention; coastal protection; air
quality monitoring; climate change activities, including the Land Managers’
Renewables Fund and Climate Justice Fund; Scottish Natural Heritage; the
Scottish Environment Protection Agency; the National Park authorities; water
grants, including to the Water Industry Commission for Scotland and funding
for the Drinking Water Quality Regulator for Scotland; loans to Scottish Water
and Scottish Water Business Stream Holdings Limited; the Green Jobs Fund; the
Green Growth Accelerator. 1,985,171,000 400,000,000 4. Through their Education
and Skills portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; schools; training and development of teachers; education
workforce, including support staff; educational research, development and
promotion; Scottish Attainment Challenge related programmes; provision of
Pupil Equity Funding; pupil support and wellbeing; promoting equality and
inclusion in education and ensuring schools are safe spaces; digital strategy
and device provision; National Improvement Framework related programmes;
supporting implementation of education reforms; the Gaelic language; Bòrd na
Gàidhlig; Gaelic Media Service (MG Alba); the Scots language; funding of
Education Scotland, Disclosure Scotland and Additional Support Needs Tribunals
for Scotland; delivery of 1140 hours of funded early learning and childcare,
and the expansion of early learning and school age childcare services; child
protection; care for looked after and vulnerable children; supporting care
experienced children and young people; caregivers; youth justice and
preventing offending by children and young people; secure care for children
and young people; advocacy for children and young people; development of the
social services workforce; supporting children’s services reform; supporting
quality improvement and improvement science through the children and young
people improvement collaborative; development of the community learning and
development workforce; parenting and play; support for families with severely
disabled children; supporting disabled children and young people; early
intervention funding for the third sector through the Children, Young People,
Families and Adult Learning Fund; running costs of the Scottish Child Abuse
Inquiry; implementation of The Promise and running costs of The Promise
Scotland; Whole Family Wellbeing funding; incorporation of the United Nations
Convention on the Rights of the Child; implementation of Getting It Right For
Every Child; financial redress for survivors of child abuse in care; central
government grants to local authorities for Gaelic education, raising
attainment and early learning and childcare; grant funding for the Scottish
Credit and Qualifications Framework Partnership and Scottish Qualifications
Authority accreditation; grant in aid for the Scottish Further and Higher
Education Funding Council, Scottish Qualifications Authority (including
qualifications delivery and development), Children's Hearings Scotland,
Scottish Children's Reporter Administration, Scottish Social Services Council
and Redress Scotland; grant in aid for Skills Development Scotland;
administration funding for the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS); funding
administered by SAAS for fees, grants, bursaries, student loans and related
costs of higher education student support; Enterprise in Education; activities
associated with the Chief Scientific Adviser for Scotland and the Scottish
Science Advisory Council, and public activities to support STEM education,
science literacy and skills; international and other educational services;
funding for international college and university activities; sundry lifelong
learning activities, including community-based adult learning; funding
activities for young people to develop skills in connection with training and
work; funding for employment support programmes; the provision of Education
Maintenance Allowances. 4,949,353,000 350,000,000 5. Through their Justice and
Home Affairs portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; legal aid, including the running costs of the Scottish
Legal Aid Board; criminal injuries compensation (including administration);
support for victims and witnesses of crime, victims of human trafficking and
addressing violence against women and girls; certain services relating to
crime, including the Parole Board for Scotland; the Scottish Prison Service;
the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission; the Scottish Law Commission;
the Risk Management Authority; the Scottish Police Authority, the Police
Investigations and Review Commissioner and His Majesty’s Inspectors of
Constabulary in Scotland; additional police services; the running costs of
inquiries and reviews; the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service and His Majesty’s
Inspectors of the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service; the payment of police and
fire pensions; cyber resilience; central government grants to local
authorities for criminal justice social work; measures to create safer and
stronger communities, including Community Justice Scotland; miscellaneous
services relating to the administration of justice; veterans; community
justice services; court services, including judicial pensions; certain legal
services; costs and fees in connection with legal proceedings. 3,586,137,000
39,700,000 6. Through their Transport portfolio, for use by the Scottish
Ministers on: operational and administrative costs; support for passenger rail
services, rail infrastructure and associated rail services; support for the
development and delivery of concessionary travel schemes; support for the bus
industry; funding for major public transport projects; the running costs of
Transport Scotland; funding for the Strategic Transport Projects Review;
funding for travel information services and accessible travel; the maintenance
and enhancement of the trunk road network; support for ferry services, loans
and grants relating to vessel construction or procurement, grants for pier,
harbour and other port infrastructure; support for Highlands and Islands
Airports Limited; support and loans for investment in air services; funding
for the Air Discount Scheme; support for the Tay Road Bridge Joint Board;
support for the freight industry; support for Scottish Canals; funding to
promote sustainable and active travel; funding and loans to support net-zero
emissions and climate change transport initiatives; contributing to the
running costs of Regional Transport Partnerships and other bodies associated
with the transport sector; support for the Glasgow Subway Modernisation
programme; funding for road safety; costs in relation to funding the office of
the Scottish Road Works Commissioner; costs related to public inquiries;
central government grants to local authorities. 3,705,617,000 600,000,000 7.
Through their Rural Affairs, Land Reform and Islands portfolio, for use by the
Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs; market support,
including grants in relation to agriculture and food and drink; support for
agriculture in special areas; rural development; agri-environmental and farm
woodland measures; animal health and welfare; agricultural support reform;
land based learning; funding for land reform and community ownership; the
Scottish Land Commission; rural affairs; support for crofting communities,
including the crofting environment; funding for National Islands Plan related
initiatives; administration of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund,
Marine Fund Scotland and the emergency harbour grants scheme; core marine
functions involving scientific research, marine and biodiversity protection,
marine fisheries enforcement, policy and management of Scotland’s seas,
aquaculture and freshwater fisheries policy, administration of all marine
consents required for depositing substances at sea, coastal protection and
offshore renewables, representing Scotland’s interests in relation to
international fisheries policy, and sponsorship of Crown Estate Scotland; land
restoration; wildlife management; analytical and scientific support to help
improve rural and environmental policy, including funding of Environment,
Natural Resources and Agriculture research 2022-27 and First Minister’s
Environmental Council; provision of institutional framework for environmental
law and policy in Scotland, including the Environmental Strategy and guiding
principles on the environment; Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh; Atlantic
rainforest restoration; Scottish Forestry; the promotion of sustainable
management and expansion of forests and woodlands, including delivery of
forestry policy, support and regulations; supporting the forestry sector
through grants; Forestry and Land Scotland; managing Scotland’s national
forests and land. 1,092,569,000 300,000,000 8. Through their Constitution,
External Affairs and Culture portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on:
operational and administrative costs; support for the arts, culture and
creativity in Scotland; cultural and heritage organisations; the creative
industries; central government grants to non-departmental public bodies, local
authorities and other bodies and organisations; architecture and design
maximising the benefits of good quality design to improve the development of
Scotland’s places; funding to support Royal and ceremonial activity;
international and European relations; protecting Scotland’s place in Europe;
development assistance. 280,440,458 200,000,000 9. Through their Deputy First
Minister and Finance portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on:
operational and administrative costs; expenditure and grant assistance in
relation to public service reform and efficiency; the running and capital
costs of the Scottish Public Pensions Agency; financial support to local
authorities, including the guaranteed combined general revenue grant and
distributable non-domestic rates income; general capital grants and other
local authority revenue and capital grants for specific purposes, including
the Transfer of the Management of Development Funding and the Vacant and
Derelict Land Fund; other services, including discretionary payments under the
Bellwin scheme covering floods, storms and other emergencies; funding to
support research and the development and design of local taxation and local
government governance; expenditure on corporate and central services; funding
to support the central performance, delivery and resilience functions of the
Scottish Government; funding to support electoral administration; funding of
Boundaries Scotland; funding of the Accountant in Bankruptcy; running costs of
the Scottish COVID-19 public inquiry as well as costs of responding to both
the Scottish and UK inquiries; funding to support implementation of extension
of Freedom of Information legislation; funding of a strategy function which
supports effective policy across the Scottish Government; costs associated
with the functions of the King's Printer for Scotland. 12,542,123,000
400,000,000 10. For use by the Lord Advocate, through the Crown Office and
Procurator Fiscal Service, on: operational and administrative costs relating
to the investigation and prosecution of crime, the investigation of
allegations of criminal conduct against police officers and the investigation
of deaths; operational and administrative costs in relation to functions in
respect of extradition and mutual legal assistance; fees paid to Advocate
Deputes, temporary procurators fiscal and ad hoc Advocate Deputes; witness
expenses; victim expenses; other costs associated with Crown prosecutions and
public inquiries; for use by the Lord Advocate, through the Civil Recovery
Unit, on: investigations and cases brought under the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002. 222,957,000 3,000,000 11. Through the National Records of Scotland, for
use by the Scottish Ministers, the Registrar General for Scotland and the
Keeper of the Records of Scotland on: operational, administrative and capital
investment costs. 34,545,000 9,800,000 12. For use by the Office of the
Scottish Charity Regulator on: operational and administrative costs. 3,639,000
Nil 13. For use by the Scottish Housing Regulator on: operational and
administrative costs. 5,582,000 Nil 14. For use by the Scottish Courts and
Tribunals Service on: operational and administrative costs. 165,877,000
47,000,000 15. For use by the Scottish Fiscal Commission on: operational and
administrative costs. 2,706,000 Nil 16. For use by Revenue Scotland on:
operational and administrative costs. 11,000,000 Nil 17. For use by Food
Standards Scotland on: operational and administrative costs, including
research, monitoring and surveillance and public information and awareness
relating to food safety, standards and improving diet; protecting the other
interests of consumers in relation to food. 22,933,000 5,000,000 18. For use
by the Scottish Ministers on: pensions, allowances, gratuities etc. payable in
respect of the teachers' and national health service pension schemes.
3,422,407,000 3,100,000,000 19. For use by Registers of Scotland on:
operational and administrative costs. 9,971,000 100,000,000 20. For use by
Environmental Standards Scotland on: operational and administrative costs.
3,020,000 Nil 21. For use by Consumer Scotland on: operational and
administrative costs. 2,400,000 Nil Total amount of resources 59,171,026,458
8,644,500,000

  Direct-funded bodies

(introduced by section 2)

    Purposes Amount of resources, other than accruing resources (£) Amount of
accruing resources (£)   1. For use by the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate
Body on: operational and administrative costs of the Scottish Parliament;
payments in respect of the Commissioner for Ethical Standards in Public Life
in Scotland, the Standards Commission for Scotland, the Scottish Public
Services Ombudsman, the Scottish Information Commissioner, the Scottish
Commission for Human Rights, the Commissioner for Children and Young People in
Scotland, the Scottish Biometrics Commissioner and the devolved Scottish
functions of the Electoral Commission; any other payments relating to the
Scottish Parliament. 143,105,000 1,000,000 2. For use by Audit Scotland on:
the exercise of its functions, including assistance and support to the Auditor
General for Scotland and the Accounts Commission for Scotland; other audit
work for public bodies; payment of pensions to former Local Government
Ombudsmen and their staff. 13,512,000 26,000,000

  Borrowing by statutory bodies

(introduced by section 3)

    Enactment Amount (£)   1. Section 25 of the Enterprise and New Towns
(Scotland) Act 1990 (Scottish Enterprise). 10,000,000 2. Section 26 of that
Act (Highlands and Islands Enterprise). 1,000,000 3. Section 48 of the
Environment Act 1995 (Scottish Environment Protection Agency). Nil 4. Section
42B of the Water Industry (Scotland) Act 2002 (Scottish Water). 222,000,000 5.
Section 14 of the Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act 2005 (Scottish Water
Business Stream Holdings Limited and any subsidiary of it within the meaning
of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006). 100,000,000

