Title: Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-07-03
Description: Authorise the use for the public service of certain resources for the years ending 31 March 2024 and 2025 (including, for the year ending 31 March 2024, income); to authorise the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of certain sums for the service of those years; to authorise the use of those sums for specified purposes; and to authorise the Department of Finance to borrow on the credit of those sums.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2024/1

## Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2024

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by His Majesty as follows:

### Authorisation for the year ending 31 March 2024

#### Use of resources

1

1.1

For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section and section 2
authorise the use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2024.

1.2

In that year, the use of resources by the persons mentioned in subsection (3)
is authorised up to the amount of £28,817,828,000.

1.3

The persons are—

1.3.a

the Northern Ireland departments;

1.3.b

the Food Standards Agency;

1.3.c

the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

1.3.d

the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

1.3.e

the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

1.3.f

the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

1.3.g

the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

1.4

Of the amount authorised by subsection (2)—

1.4.a

£26,071,663,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

1.4.b

£2,746,165,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

#### Limits on use of resources

2

2.1

Schedule 1 contains estimates relating to the persons mentioned in section
1(3) for the year ending 31 March 2024 (“Schedule 1 estimates”).

2.2

In the year ending 31 March 2024, a person mentioned in section 1(3) may use
resources in accordance with subsections (3) to (7) and the Schedule 1
estimate relating to that person.

2.3

The person may use resources specified in column 2 of Part 1 of the estimate
for the purposes specified in Part 2 of the estimate; but this is subject to
subsections (4) to (7).

2.4

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for current
purposes, the person—

2.4.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for current purposes;

2.4.b

must not use those resources for capital purposes.

2.5

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for capital
purposes, the person—

2.5.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for capital purposes;

2.5.b

must not use those resources for current purposes.

2.6

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources in relation
to a category of expenditure, the person—

2.6.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for a purpose identified in
the estimate as falling within that category of expenditure;

2.6.b

must not use those resources for any other purpose.

2.7

The categories of expenditure are—

2.7.a

expenditure subject to a departmental expenditure limit;

2.7.b

annually managed expenditure;

2.7.c

non-budget expenditure.

2.8

The authorisations in this section and in section 1 supersede those made by
sections 1 and 2 of the Northern Ireland Budget (No.2) Act 2023, which total
£27,403,514,000.

In relation to any amount of resource specified in column 2 of Part 1 of a
Schedule 1 estimate, any increase or decrease by virtue of this section in the
amount authorised is given in column 3 of that Part.

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund

3

The Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service
of the year ending 31 March 2024 the sum of £23,937,688,000.

#### Use of sum issued out of the Consolidated Fund

4

4.1

The sum that the Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund under
section 3 may be used for the year ending 31 March 2024 in accordance with
subsection (2).

4.2

The sum specified in Part 1 of a Schedule 1 estimate as a money requirement
may be used by the person to whom the estimate relates for the purposes
specified in Part 2 of the estimate.

4.3

The authorisations in this section and in section 3 supersede those made by
sections 3 and 4 of the Northern Ireland Budget (No.2) Act 2023, which total
£22,790,893,000.

#### Power to borrow

5

5.1

The Department may borrow on the credit of the sum specified in section 3 any
sum or sums not exceeding in total £11,968,844,000.

5.2

Any money so borrowed is to be repaid along with any interest due on it out of
the Consolidated Fund not later than 31 March 2024.

5.3

Section 5 of the Northern Ireland Budget (No.2) Act 2023 (power to borrow) is
omitted.

5.4

Any money borrowed under that section and outstanding on the day on which this
section comes into operation is to be treated as having been borrowed under
this section.

#### Use of income

6

6.1

In the year ending 31 March 2024, a person mentioned in section 1(3) may use
income from a source specified in Part 3 of the Schedule 1 estimate relating
to that person for a purpose specified in Part 2 of the estimate; but this is
subject to subsections (2) to (5).

6.2

Where the income is received in connection with current purposes, the person—

6.2.a

may use the income for current purposes;

6.2.b

must not use the income for capital purposes.

6.3

Where the income is received in connection with capital purposes, the person—

6.3.a

may use the income for capital purposes;

6.3.b

must not use the income for current purposes.

6.4

Where the source of income is identified in the estimate as relating to a
category of expenditure, the person—

6.4.a

may use income from that source for a purpose identified in the estimate as
falling within that category;

6.4.b

must not use income from that source for any other purpose.

6.5

The categories of expenditure are the categories set out in section 2(7).

6.6

Where, in the year ending 31 March 2024, money is received by a person
mentioned in section 1(3)—

6.6.a

the money may be used in accordance with this section or with any other
statutory provision that provides for the person to deal with income in a
particular manner, and

6.6.b

in so far as not so used, it must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

6.7

The authorisations in this section supersede those made by section 6 of the
Northern Ireland Budget (No.2) Act 2023.

### Authorisation for the year ending 31 March 2025

#### Use of resources

7

7.1

For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section and section 8
authorise the use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2025.

7.2

In that year, the use of resources by the persons mentioned in subsection (3)
is authorised up to the amount of £18,731,611,000.

7.3

The persons are—

7.3.a

the Northern Ireland departments;

7.3.b

the Food Standards Agency;

7.3.c

the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

7.3.d

the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

7.3.e

the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

7.3.f

the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

7.3.g

the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

7.4

Of the amount authorised by subsection (2)—

7.4.a

£16,946,596,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

7.4.b

£1,785,015,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

#### Limits on use of resources

8

8.1

Schedule 2 contains estimates relating to the persons mentioned in section
7(3) for the year ending 31 March 2025 (“Schedule 2 estimates”).

8.2

In the year ending 31 March 2025, a person mentioned in section 7(3) may use
resources in accordance with subsections (3) to (7) and the Schedule 2
estimate relating to that person.

8.3

The person may use resources specified in column 2 of Part 1 of the estimate
for the purposes specified in Part 2 of the estimate; but this is subject to
subsections (4) to (7).

8.4

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for current
purposes, the person—

8.4.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for current purposes;

8.4.b

must not use those resources for capital purposes.

8.5

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for capital
purposes, the person—

8.5.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for capital purposes;

8.5.b

must not use those resources for current purposes.

8.6

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources in relation
to a category of expenditure, the person—

8.6.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for a purpose identified in
the estimate as falling within that category of expenditure;

8.6.b

must not use those resources for any other purpose.

8.7

The categories of expenditure are—

8.7.a

expenditure subject to a departmental expenditure limit;

8.7.b

annually managed expenditure;

8.7.c

non-budget expenditure.

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund

9

The Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service
of the year ending 31 March 2025 the sum of £15,724,763,000.

#### Use of sum issued out of the Consolidated Fund

10

10.1

The sum that the Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund under
section 9 may be used for the year ending 31 March 2025 in accordance with
subsection (2).

10.2

The sum specified in Part 1 of a Schedule 2 estimate as a money requirement
may be used by the person to whom the estimate relates for the purposes
specified in Part 2 of the estimate.

#### Power to borrow

11

11.1

The Department may borrow on the credit of the sum specified in section 9 any
sum or sums not exceeding in total £7,862,382,000.

11.2

Any money so borrowed is to be repaid along with any interest due on it out of
the Consolidated Fund not later than 31 March 2025.

### Supplementary

#### Interpretation

12

In this Act—

      “ the 2001 Act ” means the Government Resources and Accounts Act
(Northern Ireland) 2001;           “ the Department ” means the Department of
Finance;           “ Northern Ireland department ” has the same meaning as in
the Northern Ireland Act 1998;           “ Schedule 1 estimate ” has the
meaning given in section 2(1);           “ Schedule 2 estimate ” has the
meaning given in section 8(1);           “ statutory provision ” has the same
meaning as in section 1(f) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954.

#### Short title

13

This Act may be cited as the Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2024.

## SCHEDULES

  Estimates for the year ending 31 March 2024

Sections 2, 4 and 6

##### DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT AND RURAL AFFAIRS ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 639,588,000 +23,938,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 97,452,000 -18,217,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 124,036,000 +111,000,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes
- - Net resources for capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 733,419,000
+16,304,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  The provision of agricultural, educational and knowledge transfer services,
research and development and payments and grants to students, societies,
associations, institutions, businesses, clubs and other organisations for
agri-food purposes, horticulture, equine, fisheries and aquaculture purposes,
environmental purposes, and rural development; and harbour development. The
provision of veterinary services, official controls and other official
activities including animal health and welfare, veterinary public health and
veterinary certification of live animals and animal products, including
aquatic and fish health, and payments of compensation to farmers for animals
culled in disease control programmes. The provision and application of policy
support, policy development and legislation for the agri-food and equine
industries, animal health and welfare, veterinary medicines, antimicrobial
resistance, dog control, wildlife interventions, rural needs and the
protection for all aspects of animal, bee and plant health and animal welfare.
The provision and application of policy support, policy development, science
support and legislation for protection, regulation and conservation of the
environment, biodiversity, fisheries, aquaculture including for mitigating and
adapting to climate change; and for furthering the achievement of sustainable
development and green growth. The provision of country parks, and nature
reserves and information centres. Net spend of the Agri-Food and Biosciences
Institute, the Loughs Agency of the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish Lights
Commission, the Northern Ireland Fishery Harbour Authority and the Livestock
and Meat Commission for Northern Ireland. Grants to the Council for Nature
Conservation and the Countryside, the Agricultural Wages Board for Northern
Ireland, the Climate Change Committee and grants for scientific services by
other bodies, support for innovation, providing hardship assistance,
conservation, natural heritage, green growth, environmental legislation and
protection and operation of the carrier bag levy. Subsidy and grant to Forest
Service in relation to the regulation, maintenance, protection, development
and conservation of forests and the management of the Forest Service estate.
Payments under European Union or nationally funded programmes including the
Common Agricultural Policy and disallowance, payments to district councils and
other approved delivery bodies and other expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union.
Expenditure on enforcement activities, contingency planning and exercising,
digital services, administration costs, compensation payments, governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
associated non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Creation and movement in provisions, revaluations due to change in market
value, depreciation and net spend of arm’s length bodies.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recoupment of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff; European
Union (EU) income; receipts from the public and from public/private sector
organisations in respect of various goods and services provided by the
Department; receipts in respect of leases; miscellaneous licence fees and
charges; receipts in respect of carrier bag levy; salvage of livestock
slaughtered under the disease eradication programme; sundry income. Amounts
that may be applied as non-operating accruing resources arising from sale of
assets.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITIES ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 881,348,000 +15,596,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 240,378,000 -10,511,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 5,147,632,000 +243,668,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 6,536,000 +2,286,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes 137,656,000 +69,493,000 Net resources for capital purposes -
- Money Money requirement 6,447,672,000 +437,478,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Payments relating to the administration and operating costs of the
Department and the net administration and operating costs of its ALBs to
enable the Department to fulfil its obligations to support all client groups
as well as supporting the Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic and delivering the Programme for Government. The Department’s ALBs
include the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, Northern Ireland Library
Authority, National Museums and Galleries Northern Ireland, Arts Council of
Northern Ireland, Sports Council for Northern Ireland, the North/South
Language Body, Charities Commission for Northern Ireland, Armagh Observatory
and Planetarium, Northern Ireland Commissioner for Children and Young People,
Ulster Supported Employment Limited, Commissioner for Older People for
Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Museums Council, Local Government Staff
Commission and Northern Ireland Local Government Officer’s Superannuation
Committee. Expenditure/services of the Department and its ALBs include: social
security administration including the payment of appropriate grants, loans,
compensation, benefits and allowances; payment of Welfare Supplementary
payments; payments associated with the amendment of Special Rules for Terminal
Illness; payment of Discretionary Support grants and loans; collection of debt
arising from overpayments of benefit and on behalf of other public and private
sector bodies; provision of youth and adult employment services programmes,
schemes and skills training programmes; career information, advice and
guidance services; promoting and protecting the interests of children, older
people, people with disabilities, and other socially excluded groups; child
maintenance service; housing services, including discretionary payments, loans
and subsidies; housing-led regeneration; preventing homelessness, and
supporting people to stay in their homes; regulation of the NI Housing
Association sector; arts, creativity, museums, libraries, linguistic and
cultural diversity, sport, recreation and other services; historic environment
and payments to hold or support events; acquisition and preservation of, and
provision of access to, archival heritage; residual payments in relation to
the wind up of the Northern Ireland Events Company; urban regeneration
including services such as property maintenance and events; community and
voluntary sector support; provision of money and debt advice; services
provided to the Resettlement Scheme; grants to councils in support of local
services, transferred functions and emergency financial assistance; grant
funding for delivery of the All-Island Local Authority Programme; built
heritage; payments under European Union Structural Funds programmes and
expenditure relating to exiting the European Union; sums payable under the
Fresh Start and New Decade New Approach agreements; expenditure relating to UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; costs of administering services provided to other
departments and partner organisations; costs relating to climate change
actions; costs relating to building safety and remediation; all administration
costs, including developmental work on systems; severance payments;
depreciation, impairments and any other non-cash costs including losses,
special payments and write offs.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The payment of social security and other benefits, grants, loans, allowances
and payments to people of working age, pensioners, and people with
disabilities and their carers, in accordance with the prevailing legislation
and regulations including the Governmental response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Costs and payments associated with the collapse of private pension schemes.
Losses, special payments and write offs. Provisions, impairments and other
Annually Managed Expenditure of the Department and its ALBs.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Payment of the grant to the Social Fund to fund regulated, discretionary and
winter fuel payments and other relevant non-budget expenditure.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  In accordance with the prevailing legislation and regulations, income
arising from the administration of the Department in delivering its statutory
responsibilities including: recoupment of salaries and associated costs for
seconded staff; recovery of legal costs and DNA fees; charges collected from
paying and receiving parents; charges collected from mortgage lenders;
recovery of costs from other government departments and other public bodies
for services provided; funding from Shared Island and other investment funds;
recovery of mesothelioma payments; recovery of proceeds from crime in respect
of benefit fraud and organised fraud; sale of capital assets and non-capital
items; recovery of discretionary loans; landlord registration fees and
reimbursement of loan interest charges by the Housing Executive; repayment of
grants and loans from housing associations; repayment of Financial Transaction
Capital (FTC) loans; rental income; admission fees to historic monuments and
events; levies from publications and the users of the Public Record Office of
Northern Ireland; Resettlement Scheme recoupments; licence fee income; EU
Income; interest accrued and recovered; sundry receipts.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Income arising from:

  Transfer of Tax Credit debt from other government departments and the
recovery of support for mortgage interest loans.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR THE ECONOMY ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 1,312,645,000 -73,395,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 220,898,000 -27,812,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 67,255,000 -112,073,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 489,828,000 +77,487,000 Non-budget expenditure
Net resources for current purposes 2,204,000 +125,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 1,428,826,000 -68,636,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Economic development, through research, developing policies and evaluation;
economic infrastructure in support of economic development including
regulatory reform and circular economy; providing assistance to industry and
business (including assisting with the residual costs in connection with the
privatisation of aircraft and shipbuilding companies); governmental response
to and recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; telecommunications;
the delivery of City/Growth Deals, Inclusive Future Fund and Complementary
Fund; social economy; licensing and legislation in relation to Minerals and
Petroleum; geological research, Geological Survey NI and safeguarding
abandoned mines; Renewable Heat Schemes and associated costs; energy strategy,
energy policy and legislation, including the provision of energy-related
assistance; providing assistance to the development of tourism to include
acquisition, management and disposal of assets and resources associated with
the development of tourism; business regulation including company law,
Insolvency Service, Trading Standards, Consumer Affairs, mutuals policy,
legislation and operational; labour market services including employment law,
Office of the Industrial Tribunal and Fair Employment Tribunal and employer
support; repayment of funds made available to the Presbyterian Mutual Society
to make payments to eligible persons; providing assistance for the Northern
Ireland screen industry and its cultural sector; higher education (including
universities and colleges of education); further education, youth and adult
skills training, management and enterprise training, student support and other
matters relating to tertiary education; employment schemes and services,
including those for people with disabilities, and career information, advice
and guidance services; grants in respect of Education Maintenance Allowances
and certain payments to the Department of Education in Northern Ireland, the
Department for Education in England, the Department for Science, Innovation
and Technology and the British Council; repayment of loans; payments under NIO
funding; payments under European Union Structural Funds Programmes and other
European Funded schemes including Peace IV, Peace Plus, Interreg and ERASMUS
including match funding; payments under UK Shared prosperity funding; payments
under Shared Island Funding; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union, including
assistance and support to businesses as a result of post Brexit positioning;
and compliance with legal obligations arising out of the implementation of the
Windsor Framework; administration costs, including redundancy payments and
other statutory payments, severance payments and any compensation payments,
other related services; compensation payments in relation to the holiday pay
case; the efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
funding councils and organisations supporting departmental objectives,
including the net spend and non-cash costs of the Department’s arm’s length
bodies including Invest Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission,
Northern Ireland Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism
Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and
Business Development Body (IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges,
Stranmillis University College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety
Executive for Northern Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern
Ireland and General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland; other non-cash
items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations. Renewable Heat Schemes and
associated costs; student loans; revaluations; corporation tax; pensions; bad
debts; creation and movement in provisions and other non-cash items. Funding
organisations supporting departmental objectives, including the net spend and
non-cash costs of the Department’s arm’s length bodies including: Invest
Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission, Northern Ireland Tourist
Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism Ireland Company Limited
by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and Business Development Body
(IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges, Stranmillis University
College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety Executive for Northern
Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern Ireland, General
Consumer Council for Northern Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Further education pension liabilities; other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recoveries of salaries; superannuation and associated costs of seconded
staff; recoupment of costs in respect of processing mineral and petroleum
licences; application fees for mineral and petroleum licences; sale of
geological publications and charges for services provided by Geological Survey
Northern Ireland; consent fees from NI Electricity; clawback from
telecommunication and broadband contracts; rental income; European Union
Funding; NIO Funding; UK Shared Prosperity Funding; Shared Island Funding;
Insolvency Service and Consumer Affairs fees and recoveries; loan interest and
principal receivable; McManus Scholarship funding; research funding from
Department for Science, Innovation and Technology and other funding
organisations; income from The Executive Office and Home Office for English
for Speakers of other Languages (ESOL) related schemes; Department for
Communities grant income; grant income from Government bodies; student loans;
the recovery of administration costs and sundry receipts; recoupment of
Renewable Heat Scheme payments.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Income arising from:

  Repayment of student loans, including interest; pensions and taxes;
recoupment of Renewable Heat Scheme payments.

####### Non-budget income

  Income arising from:

  Company receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 2,883,181,000 +304,090,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 280,161,000 +59,543,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 306,584,000 +2,373,000 Net
resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - - Net resources for capital purposes - - Money Money
requirement 3,121,269,000 +183,633,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pre-school, primary and secondary school education (including library and
support services for schools and pupils), the youth service, children’s
services, childcare services, community relations measures for young people,
and other related services; services for children, young people and families;
departmental administration and services, including settlement of NICS equal
pay claims; grants and grants-in-aid to the Education Authority for certain
services (including for core and school-related administration); grants and
grants-in-aid to other bodies; payments by the Department in respect of
certain teachers’ salaries; repayment of loans; repayments of grants; payments
under the European Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; expenditure
on activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from
the European Union; payments under Shared Island Funding; severance payments;
compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; actions associated with the
provision of free period products; bank fees and charges; other non-cash
items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Take up and maintenance of departmental and ALBs’ provisions and associated
non-cash items including but not restricted to: bad debts, impairments, tax
and pension costs for the Department, its ALBs and payment of corporation tax.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Administration and programme income in support of its objectives including:
the sale of goods and services by the Department (including publications), its
Executive Agencies, its arm’s length bodies, and other partner organisations;
sale of research publications; receipts from other government departments and
other sources (including the EU) in connection with a range of educational,
training, youth support, student finance provision, children and family
programmes with common objectives, and initiatives in the UK and overseas;
Shared Island Funding; sales receipts and profits from departmental or ALB
properties, equipment or other assets (including some repayment of proceeds of
sale); repayments of grants, repayments of loans, receipts associated with the
closure of departmental ALBs, and recoveries from services provided to Sure
Start; the general administration receipts of the Department, its executive
agencies, its arm’s length bodies, and other partner organisations, including:
the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff, the disposal
of surplus assets, charges for accommodation, and sale of goods and services;
bank interest; sundry receipts.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Income arising from:

  Non-cash accounting adjustments; interest and dividends and income from
disposal of financial assets.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION - TEACHERS’ SUPERANNUATION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes
492,998,000 -382,543,000 Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes -2,204,000 -125,000 Net
resources for capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 213,585,000
+63,839,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pensions, allowances, gratuities etc; certain payments to the Northern
Ireland National Insurance Fund; certain payments in respect of premature
retirement compensation made to members of the scheme and on behalf of their
employers; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; severance payments;
compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Income arising from:

  Employer and employee contributions; transfers into the Northern Ireland
Teachers’ Pension Scheme; certain receipts from the state pension scheme;
certain payments received from specific government funds set up to facilitate
early retirement initiatives.

####### Non-budget income

  Income arising from:

  Payments from the Department for the Economy in relation to the added years
compensation element paid to teachers and lecturers who retired prematurely
from Further Education colleges.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 244,573,000 +34,407,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 37,908,000 - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 12,104,000 +500,000 Net resources for capital purposes
1,000,000 +1,000,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes
- - Net resources for capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 243,357,000
+24,007,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Finance, procurement and policy including Public Sector Reform; Business
Consultancy Services; Construction and Procurement Delivery; the Departmental
Solicitor’s Office; Internal Audit Services; NICS shared services for
personnel, finance, ICT including cyber security, training, digital
transformation and service related administration costs; NICS Accommodation
Services including for the wider public sector; receipt of grants; the
administration of centralised funds; services provided by the Northern Ireland
Statistics and Research Agency and Land and Property Services; grants to
district councils; net operational and programme costs of the Special European
Union Programmes Body; payment and income under the European Union structural
funds programmes; operational costs of the Fiscal Council; the sponsorship and
provision of secretariats in respect of other independent bodies; funding to
support the Boardroom Apprentice Programme; other common services; settlement
of NICS equal pay claims; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
severance payments; compensation payments; bank charges; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Depreciation and impairments due to revaluation of assets and the office
estate; creation and revaluation of provisions including for legal cases and
dilapidation costs; Special European Union Programmes Body pension
liabilities; other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recovery of administration costs and other associated costs, from other
Departments, other bodies and the public including charges for seconded staff;
costs of legal services; Construction and Procurement Delivery services;
charges levied by Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency; fees for
Land and Property Services; NICS Accommodation Services; NICS Shared Services
for personnel, finance, ICT and training; European Union income; other grants
and other centralised service charges; bank interest; the disposal of assets.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - SUPERANNUATION AND OTHER ALLOWANCES ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes
430,000,000 -789,931,000 Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Money Money requirement 120,000,000 +21,890,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Redundancy, early retirement and rechargeable injury costs to or in respect
of persons covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil Service
Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI).

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pensions, lump sums, transfers out, refunds, injury benefit, compensation,
tax and gratuities to or in respect of persons covered by the NICS Pension
Arrangements, the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service
Injury Benefit Scheme (NI); expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recovery of redundancy, early retirement and rechargeable injury payments
made in respect of those covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil
Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme
(NI).

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Income arising from:

  Receipts of superannuation contributions in respect of employees and
employers; transfer values received; recovery of contribution equivalent
premiums; refunds of superannuation payments and repayment of taxation paid on
behalf of scheme members; recovery of payments made in respect of those
covered by the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service
Injury Benefit Scheme (NI).

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 7,440,386,000 +631,768,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 469,014,000 +394,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 1,444,830,000 +962,449,000 Net
resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - - Net resources for capital purposes - - Money Money
requirement 8,113,086,000 +32,975,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Central expenditure on hospital, paramedic and ambulance services; community
health services; family health services; social care services; public health
and wellbeing programmes; fire and rescue services; training; European Union
programmes; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; payments under Shared Island
Funding; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; response
to emerging health issues; grants to voluntary organisations and other bodies;
payments to other government departments; services provided on behalf of other
departments; repayment of grants; repayment of loans; reviews and inquiries;
UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; compensation, settlement of legal claims and
ex-gratia payments; indemnities; payments from provisions; severance payments;
administration; related services; profit or loss on disposal of assets;
depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad debts; related expenditure;
other non-cash items.

  Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care Trusts;
Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion
Service; Children’s Court Guardian Agency for Northern Ireland; Northern
Ireland Medical and Dental Training Agency; Northern Ireland Practice and
Education Council for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care
Council; Patient and Client Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and
Quality Improvement Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board (known as
safefood); The Institute of Public Health in Ireland Company Limited by
Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service Board.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Creation and movement of provisions; non-cash items including but not
restricted to depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad debts; expenditure
on activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from
the European Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; related expenditure and costs.

  Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care Trusts;
Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion
Service; Children’s Court Guardian Agency for Northern Ireland; Northern
Ireland Medical and Dental Training Agency; Northern Ireland Practice and
Education Council for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care
Council; Patient and Client Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and
Quality Improvement Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board (known as
safefood); The Institute of Public Health in Ireland Company Limited by
Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service Board.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Hospital, paramedic and ambulance services; social care services; family
health services; sales of goods and services; grants; donations including
donations of assets; receipts for joint, co-funded and other projects;
receipts from other government departments and other sources including
European Union; Shared Island Funding; research and development; licence fees;
training services; sales of literature and training materials; conference
fees; rental income; Lottery funding; repayment of grants; repayment of loans;
interest and repayments on financial transaction capital loans; compensation
and settlement of claims; disposals of assets; recoupment of salaries and
associated costs for seconded staff; recovery of administration costs; pension
contributions; related income; other sundry receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH - HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE PENSION SCHEME ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes
1,049,100,000 +55,672,000 Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Money Money requirement -115,700,000 +13,972,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pension payments, allowances, gratuities, transfers to alternative pension
arrangements, refunds of contributions and compensation for early retirement
to or in respect of persons engaged in health and social care or other
approved employment; creation and movement in provisions; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; related costs; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Income arising from:

  Employee and employer contributions; inward transfer values received;
recovery of contribution equivalent premiums; refunds of payments; related
income; other sundry receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR INFRASTRUCTURE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 503,774,000 +89,219,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 488,921,000 +66,499,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 177,193,000 +404,000 Net resources for capital
purposes 31,240,000 -2,260,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes 347,067,000 +15,724,000 Net resources for capital purposes
259,000,000 +34,000,000 Money Money requirement 1,680,835,000 +270,014,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Design, construction and maintenance of roads, bridges, structures,
footpaths, street lighting and car parks; costs associated with walking and
cycling infrastructure; costs associated with the operation of the Blue Badge
Scheme; purchase of land, property, vehicles, ferries, plant, computer
software, equipment and stores; supporting research in the development of new
innovative digital solutions; public liability claims; compensation payments;
costs associated with the decriminalisation of parking enforcement; costs
associated with the enforcement of moving traffic offences; costs associated
with residents’ parking improvement; restoration or promotion of the
recreational or navigational use of any waterway; maintenance of designated
watercourses and sea defences; reservoir operational issues including the
maintenance of reservoirs in which the department has an interest;
construction and maintenance of drainage and flood defence structures;
protection of drainage function of all watercourses; implementation of the
Water Environment (Floods Directive) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009;
emergency response to flooding and Lead Government Department
responsibilities; experimental work under the Drainage (Northern Ireland)
Order 1973; enhancing community resilience to flooding; development of
reservoir safety legislation and support for Drainage Council for Northern
Ireland; Flood Risk Planning consultation advice; protection, restoration and
bringing back into active use the Grade A listed Crumlin Road Gaol and the
management of the St Lucia site; road safety services and promotion; driver
licensing, driver and vehicle testing, transport licensing, enforcement and
regulation; rail safety services; train driver licensing, railway operator
licensing, issue of Commercial Bus Service Permits; costs incurred to
facilitate the licensing and regulation of Goods Vehicle Operators; operation
and maintenance of the Strangford Ferry; support for and grants in respect of
the Rathlin Island ferry service and works to Ballycastle and Rathlin
Harbours; support for air and sea ports; support for transport services
including grants in respect of rail and road passenger services including fare
concessions, fuel duty rebate, transport for people with disabilities, rural
transport, shopmobility schemes, provision and maintenance of bus shelters,
purchase of buses and rolling stock and capital works; environmentally
sustainable transport and related infrastructure including Active School
Travel Programme, costs associated with greenways and active travel, including
grants, and grants for Blue-Green infrastructure; Ultra Low Emission Vehicle
strategies; energy matters; planning services, support for strategic planning
including grants, planning legislation and policy, governance and oversight of
planning and plan making within local councils; transport planning and
visioning; payments under European Union programmes; grants in respect of
certain inland waterways; net cost of the management, maintenance, development
and restoration of operational waterways of Waterways Ireland; the shareholder
and water, flooding, drainage and reservoirs policy functions; repayment of
loans; consultants’ and other fees; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; administration costs; payments in relation to the
holiday pay case; severance payments; related services including services to
other departments; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The creation, revaluation and release of provisions; depreciation and
impairments due to the revaluation of assets, unforeseen obsolescence and
losses caused by catastrophic events; bad debts; net pension liabilities of
Waterways Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Payment of income subsidies, equity injections, grants and net lending to
Northern Ireland Water Limited.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Receipts for car parking charges; decriminalised parking enforcement;
enforcement of moving traffic offences; residents’ parking; operation of the
Blue Badge Scheme; various goods and services provided by Rivers; contribution
to the water level management of the Lough Erne system; leases held by Rivers;
dividend and loan interest on the investment in the trading fund function of
the Driver and Vehicle Agency and other services provided; issue of commercial
bus service permits; application and licensing fees for Goods Vehicle
Operators; sponsorship for road safety publicity and from the sale of rights
to use publicity campaigns; ferry charges for carriage of passengers and
vehicles; street works inspection fees; fees charged to the construction
industry and other bodies for laboratory services; charges and deposits
retained for works carried out by, or at the request of, individuals or other
bodies; private street inspections; developers’ contributions; contributions
in respect of the Active School Travel Programme; charges in respect of the
use of waterways; planning applications/agreements and appeals; Crumlin Road
Gaol; Mater Hospital car park; property certifications; compensation; income
from Councils’ contribution towards the new Planning Portal; services provided
by the Department’s Graphics Unit; the recoupment of salaries and associated
costs for seconded staff; European Union income; Shared Island Fund income;
related income; miscellaneous receipts.

####### Non-budget income

  Income arising from:

  Dividend and loan interest from Northern Ireland Water Limited.

##### DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 1,358,694,000 +115,637,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 93,285,000 -35,479,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 534,432,000 -91,736,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 423,000 +175,000 Non-budget expenditure Net
resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital purposes - -
Money Money requirement 1,631,535,000 +154,796,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Access to Justice services and policy development, including expenditure by
Legal Services Agency NI, NI Courts and Tribunals Service, costs relating to
The Appeals Service and Office of President of Appeals Tribunal and costs
relating to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and associated
compensation payments; costs relating to the Victims’ Payments Board and
associated payments for the Troubles Permanent Disablement Payment Scheme; the
Parole Commissioners for NI and the NI Law Commission, net expenditure for
Criminal Justice Inspection NI; Safer Communities services and policy
development, including expenditure by Forensic Science NI, net expenditure for
the Probation Board for NI, Police Ombudsman for NI, NI Policing Board, NI
Police Fund, Police Rehabilitation and Retraining Trust and the RUC George
Cross Foundation, also expenditure on state pathology services and the
Prisoner Ombudsman, Independent Monitoring Boards, RUC GC Widows Association
and search and rescue services. Reducing Offending services and policy
development including expenditure by the NI Prison Service and Youth Justice
Agency. Policing including net expenditure by the Police Service of NI, and
net expenditure of the Independent Assessor of PSNI Recruitment Vetting.
Historical investigations and other legacy costs; implementation of the
Stormont House Agreement and Fresh Start Agreement; Access NI; compensation
schemes; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration costs; settlement of
equal pay claims, severance payments, pension scheme payments including
pension scheme benefits to or in respect of persons covered by the NI Judicial
Pension Scheme, related services; governmental response to the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic, UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; period products costs;
other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The movement, and release of provisions throughout the Department, its
Agencies and ALBs; impairment of land and buildings; pension costs including
Police pension schemes and the NI Judicial Pension Scheme; corporation tax;
other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  The use of video link and conferencing facilities; pension contributions and
superannuation liability charges; work done for other departments and ALBs;
recoupment of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff; recovery of
costs from staff; freedom of information and data protection act receipts;
recovery of compensation paid; recoupment of grant funding; recovery of costs
associated with providing forensic science services; receipts in connection
with the Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 2011; other Access to Justice
receipts; Safer Communities receipts; fireworks and explosives licensing and
inspection; proceeds of prison goods and services; prisoner productions; staff
accommodation; European Union (EU) income; contributions to community
programmes and initiatives; student placement; Youth Justice and Prison
Service tuck shop sales; criminal history checks; fees and costs recovered or
received for the use of the Department of Justice estate; court and tribunal
fees; recovery of costs for The Appeals Service and Office of President of
Appeals Tribunal; recovery of costs for the Historical Institutional Abuse
Redress Board and associated compensation payments, and costs for the Victims’
Payments Board and associated payments for the Troubles Permanent Disablement
Payment Scheme; proceeds of crime; income from the Home Office for holding
foreign national offenders; fines and fixed penalty notices; recoveries of
legal aid monies and contributions from assisted parties; administration fees
in respect of funds in court; monies recovered in respect of third party
claims; recoveries from the National Insurance Fund for the costs of Office of
the Social Security and Child Support Commissioner; receipts arising from
disposal of assets and those arising from breach of claw back clauses in
contracts of sale; other fees; related income; sundry receipts.

##### THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 169,078,000 -15,496,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 26,191,000 +14,208,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 244,774,000 +42,787,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes
- - Net resources for capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 198,797,000
-4,895,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Support to the Executive Committee; the co-ordination of policy; strategic
corporate communications; support to the Head of the NI Civil Service and NICS
Board, including net expenses of NICS Board Non-Executive Members; net
expenses of the Attorney General for Northern Ireland and the Commissioner for
Public Appointments for Northern Ireland; public appointments policy and
strategy; the skills development and support of public appointees and
potential public appointees and actions to improve broader public sector
governance and capacity; public appointments including the appointment of the
Commissioner for Children and Young People for Northern Ireland, and the
Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland; the Irish Language
Commissioner, the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British
Tradition and the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression; support for the
Compact Civic Advisory Panel; net expenses of the Strategic Investment Board
Limited; net expenses of the Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments
Commission; the North-South Ministerial Council; the British-Irish Council;
machinery for the conduct of Inter-governmental Relations; civil contingencies
and resilience; maintenance and repair of former Regional Government
Headquarters building, Ballymena, as required under Article 3 of the Historic
Monument and Archaeological Objects (Northern Ireland) Order 1995; policy on
standards in public life; the Reinvestment and Reform Initiative; the
regeneration of Ebrington; net expenses of the Maze/Long Kesh Development
Corporation; development and delivery of a Programme for Government;
development of and supporting the delivery of an Investment Strategy NI,
associated plans and governance mechanisms; promotion of human rights,
equality of opportunity and social inclusion and the alleviation of
disadvantage including in situations of severe stress, crisis or emergency;
net expenses of the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland; actions related
to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and the Commissioner for
Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse within the Historical Institutional
Abuse (Northern Ireland) Act 2019 including, payments to the designated
department under that Act for administrative costs of the Board, awards of
compensation and costs and expenses in connection with applications and
appeals; and other implementation-related actions from the Hart Report,
including a memorial, seeking contributions from Institutions towards the
costs of redress and services for victims and survivors; work associated with
historical clerical child abuse, Mother and Baby Homes and Magdalene Laundries
and workhouses (covering the work in Truth Recovery Design Report published in
October 2021); net expenses of the Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional
Childhood Abuse; the actions and commitments contained in the Executive’s Good
Relations Strategy Together: Building a United Community including the T:BUC
Camps Programme, Planned Interventions Programme, the Central Good Relations
Fund and the District Councils Good Relations Programme, the Urban Villages
programme, T:BUC Trees Initiative; the policy, funding and legislative
implementation of the Racial Equality Strategy; and actions associated with
Refugee and Asylum Seeker support and integration, including support for those
displaced as a result of global conflict or other emergency situation; net
expenses of the Northern Ireland Community Relations Council; the European
Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; delivering social change
including the associated Executive Funds; the promotion of Social Value;
victims and survivors including actions and payments associated with the
operation of the Victims Payments Scheme for Permanent Disablement; net
expenses of the Victims and Survivors Service Limited; net expenses of the
Commission for Victims and Survivors for Northern Ireland; implementation of
the Stormont House Agreement and the Fresh Start Agreement; actions associated
with the implementation of the New Decade, New Approach deal; the Commission
on Flags, Identity, Culture and Tradition; net expense of the Irish Language
Commissioner, the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British
Tradition and the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression; promoting the
devolved administration’s interests internationally by supporting the
development of relationships with stakeholders overseas, inward visitors, and
representatives from overseas on devolved matters, supporting international
activities of benefit to NI, including establishing, maintaining and
developing the work of the offices overseas; in particular managing and
promoting the devolved administration’s interests in Europe; policy
development in respect of the devolved administration’s responsibilities and
interests in relation to the EU following the UK’s exit; expenditure on
devolved functions that are required as a result of the international
agreements entered into by the United Kingdom; governmental response to and
recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; development and delivery of a
strategy to tackle violence against women and girls; actions associated with
the implementation of the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022; re-establishment of the Economic Policy Unit; settlement of the
NICS equal pay claims; development of trauma informed practice across the
Department and its ALBs severance payments; liaison with other bodies, persons
and authorities (both inside and outside Northern Ireland); information
services; the legislative programme; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
administration; development of actions and policy stemming from the Climate
Change Act (Northern Ireland) 2022, to include the establishment of the NI
Climate Commissioner’s Office; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Revaluations of strategic sites and land and buildings; movement on
provisions, impairment of Financial Transactions Capital loans, and unrealised
exchange rate gains and losses.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recovery of secondee costs; rental income; receipts from the European Union
in relation to the EU Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; capital receipts
from the disposal of buildings at the Ebrington Site; recovery of costs for
other services.

##### FOOD STANDARDS AGENCY ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 15,327,000 -375,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 180,000 +80,000 Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 300,000 - Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for
capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 15,595,000 -295,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Improving food safety and promoting healthy eating; food safety inspection
and enforcement; incident management; consumer awareness of food safety,
choice and healthy eating options; research; training and education;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; administration;
related services; associated depreciation; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Provisions; other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Meat hygiene inspection fees; diet, nutrition and food safety projects and
events; rental income; recovery of administration costs; related income;
sundry receipts.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY COMMISSION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 48,879,000 -1,867,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 3,160,000 - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 2,181,000 -19,000 Net resources for capital purposes - -
Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources
for capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 48,418,000 -2,320,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  The remuneration of Members of the Assembly, the operation of services
supporting Members as they exercise their functions as Members in the
Assembly, constituencies and elsewhere, including the administration of the
financial support framework for Members. The provision of property, staff and
services to the Assembly; hosting events; provision of services to enhance the
public awareness and involvement in the working of the Assembly; service
related administration costs; severance payments; associated depreciation;
other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The provision for legal costs, early departure costs, and the annual finance
costs for the Assembly Members’ Pension Scheme.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recovery of administration costs from other Departments, other bodies and
the public including the recoupment of staff salaries, ministerial salaries
and associated employer related costs; recoupment of costs for hosted events;
recoupment of costs associated with installing donated heritage assets;
certain retail outlet sales; sundry receipts relating to overpayments.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND AUDIT OFFICE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 8,475,000 -25,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 45,000 - Annually managed expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - - Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Money Money requirement 8,345,000 -25,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Audit and assurance services; promoting economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the use of public funds and resources; conducting exercises
to assist in fraud prevention and detection; expenditure on activities that
are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration;
related services; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; associated non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  The provision of audit and assurance services; data matching exercises;
recoupment of salary and associated costs for seconded staff; recovery of
administration costs; rental income; related income; sundry receipts.

##### THE NORTHERN IRELAND AUTHORITY FOR UTILITY REGULATION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 316,000 -13,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 20,000 - Annually managed expenditure Net resources for
current purposes 1,000 - Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Money Money requirement 630,000 -163,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Developing and regulating the electricity, gas, water and sewerage
industries and markets; promoting competition; protecting consumers;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; those aspects of implementation of the
Department for Economy’s Energy Strategy, delivery of the energy transition to
Net Zero, developing and regulating Heat Networks, governmental response to
the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
administration; related services; other non-cash items.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Licence fees; dispute resolution; recoupment of salaries and associated
costs for seconded staff; recovery of administration costs; related income;
sundry receipts.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND PUBLIC SERVICES OMBUDSMAN ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 3,997,000 +30,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 60,000 - Annually managed expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - - Net resources for capital purposes - - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources for capital
purposes - - Money Money requirement 3,845,000 +50,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Investigating complaints of injustice suffered through maladministration by
government departments, statutory agencies, public bodies, local government
and health and social care bodies, general and independent health care
providers, colleges, universities and boards of governors of grant aided
schools; undertaking investigations into systemic maladministration without
the need for complaint; improving standards of complaints handling by public
bodies including publication of statistics, best practice and training;
investigating and adjudicating on complaints on local government ethical
standards against councillors; severance payments; governmental response to
the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European
Union; administration; backdated holiday compensation payments; related
services; investigation of complaints about judicial appointments made by
Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments Commission; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Creation and movement in provisions.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Recoupment of salary and associated costs for any seconded staff.

##### PUBLIC PROSECUTION SERVICE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts Increase/Decrease (£) (£)   Departmental expenditure
limit Net resources for current purposes 42,270,000 +1,609,000 Net resources
for capital purposes 465,000 +30,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 989,000 - Net resources for capital purposes -
- Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - - Net resources
for capital purposes - - Money Money requirement 44,174,000 +4,171,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  The prosecution of offences; legal services; employment of independent
counsel; court costs and costs awarded; payments and services to other
departments and public sector bodies; trainee grants; payments under the Asset
Recovery Incentivisation Scheme; staffing; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
administration costs; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; settlement of other claims; settlement of holiday pay claims; other
related services; severance payments; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pension liabilities; provisions; other non-cash costs.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Income arising from:

  Costs awarded and court costs recovered by the NI Court and Tribunals
Service on behalf of the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland;
receipts from services provided to departments and other public bodies;
payments from the Department of Justice under the Asset Recovery
Incentivisation Scheme.

  Estimates for the year ending 31 March 2025

Sections 8 and 10

##### DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT AND RURAL AFFAIRS ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 415,733,000 Net resources for capital purposes 63,344,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 80,624,000 Net
resources for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 476,723,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  The provision of agricultural, educational and knowledge transfer services,
research and development and payments and grants to students, societies,
associations, institutions, businesses, clubs and other organisations for
agri-food purposes, horticulture, equine, fisheries and aquaculture purposes,
environmental purposes, and rural development; and harbour development. The
provision of veterinary services, official controls and other official
activities including animal health and welfare, veterinary public health and
veterinary certification of live animals and animal products, including
aquatic and fish health, and payments of compensation to farmers for animals
culled in disease control programmes. The provision and application of policy
support, policy development and legislation for the agri-food and equine
industries, animal health and welfare, veterinary medicines, antimicrobial
resistance, dog control, wildlife interventions, rural needs and the
protection for all aspects of animal, bee and plant health and animal welfare.
The provision and application of policy support, policy development, science
support and legislation for protection, regulation and conservation of the
environment, biodiversity, fisheries, aquaculture including for mitigating and
adapting to climate change; and for furthering the achievement of sustainable
development and green growth. The provision of country parks, and nature
reserves and information centres. Net spend of the Agri-Food and Biosciences
Institute, the Loughs Agency of the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish Lights
Commission, the Northern Ireland Fishery Harbour Authority and the Livestock
and Meat Commission for Northern Ireland. Grants to the Council for Nature
Conservation and the Countryside, the Agricultural Wages Board for Northern
Ireland, the Climate Change Committee and grants for scientific services by
other bodies, support for innovation, providing hardship assistance,
conservation, natural heritage, green growth, environmental legislation and
protection and operation of the carrier bag levy. Subsidy and grant to Forest
Service in relation to the regulation, maintenance, protection, development
and conservation of forests and the management of the Forest Service estate.
Payments under European Union or nationally funded programmes including the
Common Agricultural Policy and disallowance, payments to district councils and
other approved delivery bodies and other expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union.
Expenditure on enforcement activities, contingency planning and exercising,
digital services, administration costs, compensation payments, governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
associated non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Creation and movement in provisions, revaluations due to change in market
value, depreciation and net spend of arm’s length bodies.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITIES ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 572,877,000 Net resources for capital purposes 156,246,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 3,345,961,000
Net resources for capital purposes 4,249,000 Non-budget expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 89,477,000 Net resources for capital purposes -
Money Money requirement 4,190,987,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Payments relating to the administration and operating costs of the
Department and the net administration and operating costs of its ALBs to
enable the Department to fulfil its obligations to support all client groups
as well as supporting the Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic and delivering the Programme for Government. The Department’s ALBs
include the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, Northern Ireland Library
Authority, National Museums and Galleries Northern Ireland, Arts Council of
Northern Ireland, Sports Council for Northern Ireland, the North/South
Language Body, Charities Commission for Northern Ireland, Armagh Observatory
and Planetarium, Northern Ireland Commissioner for Children and Young People,
Ulster Supported Employment Limited, Commissioner for Older People for
Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Museums Council, Local Government Staff
Commission and Northern Ireland Local Government Officer’s Superannuation
Committee. Expenditure/services of the Department and its ALBs include: social
security administration including the payment of appropriate grants, loans,
compensation, benefits and allowances; payment of Welfare Supplementary
payments; payments associated with the amendment of Special Rules for Terminal
Illness; payment of Discretionary Support grants and loans; collection of debt
arising from overpayments of benefit and on behalf of other public and private
sector bodies; provision of youth and adult employment services programmes,
schemes and skills training programmes; career information, advice and
guidance services; promoting and protecting the interests of children, older
people, people with disabilities, and other socially excluded groups; child
maintenance service; housing services, including discretionary payments, loans
and subsidies; housing-led regeneration; preventing homelessness, and
supporting people to stay in their homes; regulation of the NI Housing
Association sector; arts, creativity, museums, libraries, linguistic and
cultural diversity, sport, recreation and other services; historic environment
and payments to hold or support events; acquisition and preservation of, and
provision of access to, archival heritage; residual payments in relation to
the wind up of the Northern Ireland Events Company; urban regeneration
including services such as property maintenance and events; community and
voluntary sector support; provision of money and debt advice; services
provided to the Resettlement Scheme; grants to councils in support of local
services, transferred functions and emergency financial assistance; grant
funding for delivery of the All-Island Local Authority Programme; built
heritage; payments under European Union Structural Funds programmes and
expenditure relating to exiting the European Union; sums payable under the
Fresh Start and New Decade New Approach agreements; expenditure relating to UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; costs of administering services provided to other
departments and partner organisations; costs relating to climate change
actions; costs relating to building safety and remediation; all administration
costs, including developmental work on systems; severance payments;
depreciation, impairments and any other non-cash costs including losses,
special payments and write offs.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The payment of social security and other benefits, grants, loans, allowances
and payments to people of working age, pensioners, and people with
disabilities and their carers, in accordance with the prevailing legislation
and regulations including the Governmental response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Costs and payments associated with the collapse of private pension schemes.
Losses, special payments and write offs. Provisions, impairments and other
Annually Managed Expenditure of the Department and its ALBs.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Payment of the grant to the Social Fund to fund regulated, discretionary and
winter fuel payments and other relevant non-budget expenditure.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR THE ECONOMY ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 853,220,000 Net resources for capital purposes 143,584,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 43,716,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 318,389,000 Non-budget expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 1,433,000 Net resources for capital purposes -
Money Money requirement 928,737,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Economic development, through research, developing policies and evaluation;
economic infrastructure in support of economic development including
regulatory reform and circular economy; providing assistance to industry and
business (including assisting with the residual costs in connection with the
privatisation of aircraft and shipbuilding companies); governmental response
to and recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; telecommunications;
the delivery of City/Growth Deals, Inclusive Future Fund and Complementary
Fund; social economy; licensing and legislation in relation to Minerals and
Petroleum; geological research, Geological Survey NI and safeguarding
abandoned mines; Renewable Heat Schemes and associated costs; energy strategy,
energy policy and legislation, including the provision of energy-related
assistance; providing assistance to the development of tourism to include
acquisition, management and disposal of assets and resources associated with
the development of tourism; business regulation including company law,
Insolvency Service, Trading Standards, Consumer Affairs, mutuals policy,
legislation and operational; labour market services including employment law,
Office of the Industrial Tribunal and Fair Employment Tribunal and employer
support; repayment of funds made available to the Presbyterian Mutual Society
to make payments to eligible persons; providing assistance for the Northern
Ireland screen industry and its cultural sector; higher education (including
universities and colleges of education); further education, youth and adult
skills training, management and enterprise training, student support and other
matters relating to tertiary education; employment schemes and services,
including those for people with disabilities, and career information, advice
and guidance services; grants in respect of Education Maintenance Allowances
and certain payments to the Department of Education in Northern Ireland, the
Department for Education in England, the Department for Science, Innovation
and Technology and the British Council; repayment of loans; payments under NIO
funding; payments under European Union Structural Funds Programmes and other
European Funded schemes including Peace IV, Peace Plus, Interreg and ERASMUS
including match funding; payments under UK Shared Prosperity Funding; payments
under Shared Island Funding; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union, including
assistance and support to businesses as a result of post Brexit positioning;
and compliance with legal obligations arising out of the implementation of the
Windsor Framework; administration costs, including redundancy payments and
other statutory payments, severance payments and any compensation payments,
other related services; compensation payments in relation to the holiday pay
case; the efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
funding councils and organisations supporting departmental objectives,
including the net spend and non-cash costs of the Department’s arm’s length
bodies including Invest Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission,
Northern Ireland Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism
Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and
Business Development Body (IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges,
Stranmillis University College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety
Executive for Northern Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern
Ireland and General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland; other non-cash
items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations. Renewable Heat Schemes and
associated costs; student loans; revaluations; corporation tax; pensions; bad
debts; creation and movement in provisions and other non-cash items. Funding
organisations supporting departmental objectives, including the net spend and
non-cash costs of the Department’s arm’s length bodies including: Invest
Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission, Northern Ireland Tourist
Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism Ireland Company Limited
by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and Business Development Body
(IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges, Stranmillis University
College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety Executive for Northern
Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern Ireland, General
Consumer Council for Northern Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Further education pension liabilities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 1,874,068,000 Net resources for capital purposes 182,105,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 199,280,000
Net resources for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 2,028,825,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pre-school, primary and secondary school education (including library and
support services for schools and pupils), the youth service, children’s
services, childcare services, community relations measures for young people,
and other related services; services for children, young people and families;
departmental administration and services, including settlement of NICS equal
pay claims; grants and grants-in-aid to the Education Authority for certain
services (including for core and school-related administration); grants and
grants-in-aid to other bodies; payments by the Department in respect of
certain teachers’ salaries; repayment of loans; repayments of grants; payments
under the European Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; expenditure
on activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from
the European Union; payments under Shared Island Funding; severance payments;
compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; actions associated with the
provision of free period products; bank fees and charges; other non-cash
items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Take up and maintenance of departmental and ALBs’ provisions and associated
non-cash items including but not restricted to: bad debts, impairments, tax
and pension costs for the Department, its ALBs and payment of corporation tax.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION - TEACHERS’ SUPERANNUATION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 320,449,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes
-1,433,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
138,831,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pensions, allowances, gratuities etc.; certain payments to the Northern
Ireland National Insurance Fund; certain payments in respect of premature
retirement compensation made to members of the scheme and on behalf of their
employers; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; severance payments;
compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 158,973,000 Net resources for capital purposes 24,641,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 7,868,000 Net
resources for capital purposes 650,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources
for current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 158,183,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Finance, procurement and policy including Public Sector Reform; Business
Consultancy Services; Construction and Procurement Delivery; the Departmental
Solicitor’s Office; Internal Audit Services; NICS shared services for
personnel, finance, ICT including cyber security, training, digital
transformation and service related administration costs; NICS Accommodation
Services including for the wider public sector; receipt of grants; the
administration of centralised funds; services provided by the Northern Ireland
Statistics and Research Agency and Land and Property Services; grants to
district councils; net operational and programme costs of the Special European
Union Programmes Body; payment and income under the European Union structural
funds programmes; operational costs of the Fiscal Council; the sponsorship and
provision of secretariats in respect of other independent bodies; funding to
support the Boardroom Apprentice Programme; other common services; settlement
of NICS equal pay claims; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
severance payments; compensation payments; bank charges; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Depreciation and impairments due to revaluation of assets and the office
estate; creation and revaluation of provisions including for legal cases and
dilapidation costs; Special European Union Programmes Body pension
liabilities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - SUPERANNUATION AND OTHER ALLOWANCES ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 279,500,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 78,000,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Redundancy, early retirement and rechargeable injury costs to or in respect
of persons covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil Service
Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI).

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pensions, lump sums, transfers out, refunds, injury benefit, compensation,
tax and gratuities to or in respect of persons covered by the NICS Pension
Arrangements, the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service
Injury Benefit Scheme (NI); expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 4,836,251,000 Net resources for capital purposes 304,860,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 939,140,000
Net resources for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 5,273,506,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Central expenditure on hospital, paramedic and ambulance services; community
health services; family health services; social care services; public health
and wellbeing programmes; fire and rescue services; training; European Union
programmes; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; payments under Shared Island
Funding; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; response
to emerging health issues; grants to voluntary organisations and other bodies;
payments to other government departments; services provided on behalf of other
departments; repayment of grants; repayment of loans; reviews and inquiries;
UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; compensation, settlement of legal claims and
ex-gratia payments; indemnities; payments from provisions; severance payments;
administration; related services; profit or loss on disposal of assets;
depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad debts; related expenditure;
other non-cash items.   Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and
Social Care Trusts; Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland
Blood Transfusion Service; Children’s Court Guardian Agency for Northern
Ireland; Northern Ireland Medical and Dental Training Agency; Northern Ireland
Practice and Education Council for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland
Social Care Council; Patient and Client Council; Health and Social Care
Regulation and Quality Improvement Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board
(known as safefood); The Institute of Public Health in Ireland Company Limited
by Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service Board.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Creation and movement of provisions; non-cash items including but not
restricted to depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad debts; expenditure
on activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from
the European Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; related expenditure and costs.

  Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care Trusts;
Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion
Service; Children’s Court Guardian Agency for Northern Ireland; Northern
Ireland Medical and Dental Training Agency; Northern Ireland Practice and
Education Council for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care
Council; Patient and Client Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and
Quality Improvement Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board (known as
safefood); The Institute of Public Health in Ireland Company Limited by
Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service Board.

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH - HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE PENSION SCHEME ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 681,915,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement -

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pension payments, allowances, gratuities, transfers to alternative pension
arrangements, refunds of contributions and compensation for early retirement
to or in respect of persons engaged in health and social care or other
approved employment; creation and movement in provisions; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; related costs; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR INFRASTRUCTURE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 327,454,000 Net resources for capital purposes 317,799,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 115,176,000
Net resources for capital purposes 20,306,000 Non-budget expenditure Net
resources for current purposes 225,594,000 Net resources for capital purposes
168,350,000 Money Money requirement 1,182,376,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Design, construction and maintenance of roads, bridges, structures,
footpaths, street lighting and car parks; costs associated with walking and
cycling infrastructure; costs associated with the operation of the Blue Badge
Scheme; purchase of land, property, vehicles, ferries, plant, computer
software, equipment and stores; supporting research in the development of new
innovative digital solutions; public liability claims; compensation payments;
costs associated with the decriminalisation of parking enforcement; costs
associated with the enforcement of moving traffic offences; costs associated
with residents’ parking improvement; restoration or promotion of the
recreational or navigational use of any waterway; maintenance of designated
watercourses and sea defences; reservoir operational issues including the
maintenance of reservoirs in which the department has an interest;
construction and maintenance of drainage and flood defence structures;
protection of drainage function of all watercourses; implementation of the
Water Environment (Floods Directive) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009;
emergency response to flooding and Lead Government Department
responsibilities; experimental work under the Drainage (Northern Ireland)
Order 1973; enhancing community resilience to flooding; development of
reservoir safety legislation and support for Drainage Council for Northern
Ireland; Flood Risk Planning consultation advice; protection, restoration and
bringing back into active use the Grade A listed Crumlin Road Gaol and the
management of the St Lucia site; road safety services and promotion; driver
licensing, driver and vehicle testing, transport licensing, enforcement and
regulation; rail safety services; train driver licensing, railway operator
licensing, issue of Commercial Bus Service Permits; costs incurred to
facilitate the licensing and regulation of Goods Vehicle Operators; operation
and maintenance of the Strangford Ferry; support for and grants in respect of
the Rathlin Island ferry service and works to Ballycastle and Rathlin
Harbours; support for air and sea ports; support for transport services
including grants in respect of rail and road passenger services including fare
concessions, fuel duty rebate, transport for people with disabilities, rural
transport, shopmobility schemes, provision and maintenance of bus shelters,
purchase of buses and rolling stock and capital works; environmentally
sustainable transport and related infrastructure including Active School
Travel Programme, costs associated with greenways and active travel, including
grants and grants for Blue-Green infrastructure; Ultra Low Emission Vehicle
strategies; energy matters; planning services, support for strategic planning
including grants, planning legislation and policy, governance and oversight of
planning and plan making within local councils; transport planning and
visioning; payments under European Union programmes; grants in respect of
certain inland waterways; net cost of the management, maintenance, development
and restoration of operational waterways of Waterways Ireland; the shareholder
and water, flooding, drainage and reservoirs policy functions; repayment of
loans; consultants’ and other fees; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; administration costs; payments in relation to the
holiday pay case; severance payments; related services including services to
other departments; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The creation, revaluation and release of provisions; depreciation and
impairments due to the revaluation of assets, unforeseen obsolescence and
losses caused by catastrophic events; bad debts; net pension liabilities of
Waterways Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Payment of income subsidies, equity injections, grants and net lending to
Northern Ireland Water Limited.

##### DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 883,152,000 Net resources for capital purposes 60,636,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 347,381,000
Net resources for capital purposes 275,000 Non-budget expenditure Net
resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money
Money requirement 1,060,498,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Access to Justice services and policy development, including expenditure by
Legal Services Agency NI, NI Courts and Tribunals Service, costs relating to
The Appeals Service and Office of President of Appeals Tribunal and costs
relating to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and associated
compensation payments; costs relating to the Victims' Payments Board and
associated payments for the Troubles Permanent Disablement Payment Scheme; the
Parole Commissioners for NI and the NI Law Commission, net expenditure for
Criminal Justice Inspection NI; Safer Communities services and policy
development, including expenditure by Forensic Science NI, net expenditure for
the Probation Board for NI, Police Ombudsman for NI, NI Policing Board, NI
Police Fund, Police Rehabilitation and Retraining Trust and the RUC George
Cross Foundation, also expenditure on state pathology services and the
Prisoner Ombudsman, Independent Monitoring Boards, RUC GC Widows Association
and search and rescue services. Reducing Offending services and policy
development including expenditure by the NI Prison Service and Youth Justice
Agency. Policing including net expenditure by the Police Service of NI, and
net expenditure of the Independent Assessor of PSNI Recruitment Vetting.
Historical investigations and other legacy costs; implementation of the
Stormont House Agreement and Fresh Start Agreement; Access NI; compensation
schemes; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration costs; settlement of
equal pay claims, severance payments, pension scheme payments including
pension scheme benefits to or in respect of persons covered by the NI Judicial
Pension Scheme, related services; governmental response to the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic, UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; period products costs;
other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The movement, and release of provisions throughout the Department, its
Agencies and ALBs; impairment of land and buildings; pension costs including
Police pension schemes and the NI Judicial Pension Scheme; corporation tax;
other non-cash items.

##### THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 109,901,000 Net resources for capital purposes 17,025,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 159,104,000
Net resources for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 129,219,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Support to the Executive Committee; the co-ordination of policy; strategic
corporate communications; support to the Head of the NI Civil Service and NICS
Board, including net expenses of NICS Board Non Executive Members; net
expenses of the Attorney General for Northern Ireland and the Commissioner for
Public Appointments for Northern Ireland; public appointments policy and
strategy; the skills development and support of public appointees and
potential public appointees and actions to improve broader public sector
governance and capacity; public appointments including the appointment of the
Commissioner for Children and Young People for Northern Ireland, and the
Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland; the Irish Language
Commissioner, the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British
tradition and the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression; support for the
Compact Civic Advisory Panel; net expenses of the Strategic Investment Board
Limited; net expenses of the Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments
Commission; the North-South Ministerial Council; the British-Irish Council;
machinery for the conduct of Inter-governmental Relations; civil contingencies
and resilience; maintenance and repair of former Regional Government
Headquarters building, Ballymena as required under Article 3 of the Historic
Monument and Archaeological Objects (Northern Ireland) Order 1995; policy on
standards in public life; the Reinvestment and Reform Initiative; the
regeneration of Ebrington; net expenses of the Maze/Long Kesh Development
Corporation; development and delivery of a Programme for Government;
development of and supporting the delivery of an Investment Strategy NI,
associated plans and governance mechanisms; promotion of human rights,
equality of opportunity and social inclusion and the alleviation of
disadvantage including in situations of severe stress, crisis or emergency;
net expenses of the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland; actions related
to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and the Commissioner for
Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse within the Historical Institutional
Abuse (Northern Ireland) Act 2019 including, payments to the designated
department under that Act for administrative costs of the Board, awards of
compensation and costs and expenses in connection with applications and
appeals; and other implementation-related actions from the Hart Report,
including a memorial, seeking contributions from Institutions towards the
costs of redress and services for victims and survivors; work associated with
historical clerical child abuse, Mother and Baby Homes and Magdalene Laundries
and workhouses (covering the work in Truth Recovery Design Report published in
October 2021); net expenses of the Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional
Childhood Abuse; the actions and commitments contained in the Executive’s Good
Relations Strategy Together: Building a United Community including the T:BUC
Camps Programme, Planned Interventions Programme, the Central Good Relations
Fund and the District Councils Good Relations Programme, the Urban Villages
programme, T:BUC Trees Initiative; the policy, funding and legislative
implementation of the Racial Equality Strategy; and actions associated with
Refugee and Asylum Seeker support and integration, including support for those
displaced as a result of global conflict or other emergency situation; net
expenses of the Northern Ireland Community Relations Council; the European
Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; delivering social change
including the associated Executive Funds; the promotion of Social Value;
victims and survivors including actions and payments associated with the
operation of the Victims Payments Scheme for Permanent Disablement; net
expenses of the Victims and Survivors Service Limited; net expenses of the
Commission for Victims and Survivors for Northern Ireland; implementation of
the Stormont House Agreement and the Fresh Start Agreement; actions associated
with the implementation of the New Decade, New Approach deal; the Commission
on Flags, Identity, Culture and Tradition; net expense of the Irish Language
Commissioner, the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British
tradition and the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression; promoting the
devolved administration’s interests internationally by supporting the
development of relationships with stakeholders overseas, inward visitors, and
representatives from overseas on devolved matters, supporting international
activities of benefit to NI, including establishing, maintaining and
developing the work of the offices overseas; in particular managing and
promoting the devolved administration’s interests in Europe; policy
development in respect of the devolved administration’s responsibilities and
interests in relation to the EU following the UK’s exit; expenditure on
devolved functions that are required as a result of the international
agreements entered into by the United Kingdom; governmental response to and
recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; development and delivery of a
strategy to tackle violence against women and girls; actions associated with
the implementation of the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022; re-establishment of the Economic Policy Unit; settlement of the
NICS equal pay claims; development of trauma informed practice across the
Department and its ALBs; severance payments; liaison with other bodies,
persons and authorities (both inside and outside Northern Ireland);
information services; the legislative programme; UK Covid-19 Inquiry
activities; administration; development of actions and policy stemming from
the Climate Change Act (Northern Ireland) 2022, to include the establishment
of the NI Climate Commissioner’s Office; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Revaluations of strategic sites and land and buildings; movement on
provisions, impairment of Financial Transactions Capital loans, and unrealised
exchange rate gains and losses.

##### FOOD STANDARDS AGENCY ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 9,963,000 Net resources for capital purposes 117,000 Annually
managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 195,000 Net resources
for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
10,137,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Improving food safety and promoting healthy eating; food safety inspection
and enforcement; incident management; consumer awareness of food safety,
choice and healthy eating options; research; training and education;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; administration;
related services; associated depreciation; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Provisions; other non-cash items.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY COMMISSION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 31,772,000 Net resources for capital purposes 2,054,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 1,418,000 Net
resources for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 31,472,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  The remuneration of Members of the Assembly, the operation of services
supporting Members as they exercise their functions as Members in the
Assembly, constituencies and elsewhere, including the administration of the
financial support framework for Members. The provision of property, staff and
services to the Assembly; hosting events; provision of services to enhance the
public awareness and involvement in the working of the Assembly; service
related administration costs; severance payments; associated depreciation;
other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  The provision for legal costs, early departure costs, and the annual finance
costs for the Assembly Members’ Pension Scheme.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND AUDIT OFFICE ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 5,509,000 Net resources for capital purposes 30,000 Annually
managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 5,425,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Audit and assurance services; promoting economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the use of public funds and resources; conducting exercises
to assist in fraud prevention and detection; expenditure on activities that
are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration;
related services; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; associated non-cash items.

##### THE NORTHERN IRELAND AUTHORITY FOR UTILITY REGULATION ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 206,000 Net resources for capital purposes 13,000 Annually
managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 1,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 630,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Developing and regulating the electricity, gas, water and sewerage
industries and markets; promoting competition; protecting consumers;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; those aspects of implementation of the
Department for the Economy’s Energy Strategy, delivery of the energy
transition to Net Zero, developing and regulating Heat Networks, governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities;
administration; related services; other non-cash items.

####### Non-budget expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Non-cash items.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND PUBLIC SERVICES OMBUDSMAN ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 2,599,000 Net resources for capital purposes 39,000 Annually
managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 2,500,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  Investigating complaints of injustice suffered through maladministration by
government departments, statutory agencies, public bodies, local government
and health and social care bodies, general and independent health care
providers, colleges, universities and boards of governors of grant aided
schools; undertaking investigations into systemic maladministration without
the need for complaint; improving standards of complaints handling by public
bodies including publication of statistics, best practice and training;
investigating and adjudicating on complaints on local government ethical
standards against councillors; severance payments; governmental response to
the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK Covid-19 Inquiry activities; activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European
Union; administration; backdated holiday compensation payments; related
services; investigation of complaints about judicial appointments made by the
Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments Commission; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Creation and movement in provisions.

##### PUBLIC PROSECUTION SERVICE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ESTIMATE

    Authorised Amounts (£)   Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for
current purposes 27,476,000 Net resources for capital purposes 303,000
Annually managed expenditure Net resources for current purposes 643,000 Net
resources for capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for
current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 28,714,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

  Expenditure arising from:

  The prosecution of offences; legal services; employment of independent
counsel; court costs and costs awarded; payments and services to other
departments and public sector bodies; trainee grants; payments under the Asset
Recovery Incentivisation Scheme; staffing; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
administration costs; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; settlement of other claims; settlement of holiday pay claims; other
related services; severance payments; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

  Expenditure arising from:

  Pension liabilities; provisions; other non-cash costs.

