Title: Children (Care and Justice) (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-08-29
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/5

## Children (Care and Justice) (Scotland) Act 2024

### Children’s hearings system

#### Age of referral to children’s hearing

1

1.1

The Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 (“ the 2011 Act ”) is amended as
follows.

1.2

In section 199 (meaning of “ child ”)—

1.2.a

in subsection (1)—

1.2.a.i

for “16” substitute  “18” ,

1.2.a.ii

for “subsections (2) to (9)” substitute  “subsection (2)” ,

1.2.b

subsections (3) to (9) are repealed.

#### Children’s hearing: duty to have due regard to effects of trauma on child

2

2.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

2.2

After section 7 insert—

########## Children’s hearing: duty to have due regard to effects of trauma on child

2.2.7A

2.2.7A.1

This section applies where a children’s hearing is held for the purpose of
carrying out functions conferred on a children’s hearing by virtue of this Act
or any other enactment.

2.2.7A.2

The children’s hearing must, in carrying out its functions, have due regard to
the need to treat the child to whom the hearing relates in a way that—

2.2.7A.2.a

takes account of the effects of trauma which the child may have experienced,
and

2.2.7A.2.b

seeks to avoid, or minimise the risk of, exposing the child to—

2.2.7A.2.b.i

any recurrence of past trauma, or

2.2.7A.2.b.ii

further trauma.

2.2.7A.3

The National Convener must, so far as practicable, ensure that the children’s
hearing, in carrying out its functions, has due regard to that need.

2.2.7A.4

In this section—

2.2.7A.4.a

“ children’s hearing ” includes a pre-hearing panel,

2.2.7A.4.b

in subsection (2), in so far as it applies to a pre-hearing panel, the
reference to the child to whom the hearing relates is to be read as a
reference to the child in relation to whom a children’s hearing is to be held.

.

2.3

In section 177 (children’s hearings: procedural rules), in subsection (2),
after paragraph (h) insert—

2.3.ha

treating the child to whom a children’s hearing relates in a way that—

2.3.ha.i

takes account of the effects of trauma which the child may have experienced,
and

2.3.ha.ii

seeks to avoid, or minimise the risk of, exposing the child to any recurrence
of past trauma or to further trauma,

.

2.4

In schedule 2 (the Children’s Panel), in paragraph 3(3), after “may” insert

—

2.4.a

treat the child to whom a children’s hearing relates in a way that—

2.4.a.i

takes account of the effects of trauma which the child may have experienced,
and

2.4.a.ii

seeks to avoid, or minimise the risk of, exposing the child to any recurrence
of past trauma or to further trauma, and

2.4.b



.

#### Child assessment and child protection measures: secure accommodation

3

3.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 35 (child assessment orders), in subsection (3), at the end of
paragraph (b) insert  “(but see section 57A(2)),” .

3.3

In section 37 (child protection orders), in subsection (2), at the end of
paragraph (b) insert  “(but see section 57A(2)),” .

3.4

In section 55 (application to justice of the peace), in subsection (1), at the
end of paragraph (b) insert  “(but see section 57A(2)),” .

3.5

In section 56 (constable’s power to remove child to place of safety), in
subsection (1), after “may” insert  “, subject to section 57A(3),” .

3.6

In section 57 (sections 55 and 56: regulations), in subsection (1), after
“safety” insert  “(other than secure accommodation)” .

3.7

After section 57 insert—

########## Emergency placement of child in secure accommodation

########### Emergency placement of child in secure accommodation: pre-conditions

3.7.57A

3.7.57A.1

Subsection (2) applies to—

3.7.57A.1.a

a child assessment order,

3.7.57A.1.b

a child protection order,

3.7.57A.1.c

an order made by a justice of the peace under section 55.

3.7.57A.2

The order may not include an authorisation that enables the child to be taken
or removed to, and kept in, a place or, as the case may be, a place of safety
that is secure accommodation unless—

3.7.57A.2.a

one or more of the conditions mentioned in subsection (4) applies, and

3.7.57A.2.b

having considered the other options available, the sheriff or, as the case may
be, the justice of the peace is satisfied that it is necessary to include such
an authorisation in the order.

3.7.57A.3

A constable may not, under section 56(1), remove a child to a place of safety
that is secure accommodation and keep the child there unless—

3.7.57A.3.a

one or more of the conditions mentioned in subsection (4) applies, and

3.7.57A.3.b

having considered the other options available, the constable is satisfied that
it is necessary to do so.

3.7.57A.4

The conditions are—

3.7.57A.4.a

that—

3.7.57A.4.a.i

the child has previously absconded and is likely to abscond again unless the
child is kept in secure accommodation, and

3.7.57A.4.a.ii

if the child were to abscond, it is likely the child’s health, safety or
development would be at risk,

3.7.57A.4.b

that the child is likely to engage in self-harming conduct unless the child is
kept in secure accommodation,

3.7.57A.4.c

that the child is likely to cause physical or psychological harm to another
person unless the child is kept in secure accommodation.

3.7.57A.5

In subsection (4)(c), “ psychological harm ” includes fear, alarm and
distress.

########### Emergency placement of child in secure accommodation: regulations

3.7.57B

3.7.57B.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make further provision about the
placing and keeping of a child in secure accommodation—

3.7.57B.1.a

by virtue of—

3.7.57B.1.a.i

a child assessment order,

3.7.57B.1.a.ii

a child protection order,

3.7.57B.1.a.iii

an order made by a justice of the peace under section 55,

3.7.57B.1.b

by a constable acting under section 56(1).

3.7.57B.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular include provision—

3.7.57B.2.a

requiring—

3.7.57B.2.a.i

the consent of the person in charge of the residential establishment
containing the secure accommodation in which the child is to be placed (the
“head of unit”),

3.7.57B.2.a.ii

the agreement of the chief social work officer,

3.7.57B.2.b

specifying the criteria to be applied and the procedure to be followed—

3.7.57B.2.b.i

by the head of unit in deciding whether to give such consent,

3.7.57B.2.b.ii

by the chief social work officer in deciding whether to give such agreement,

3.7.57B.2.c

specifying the procedure for—

3.7.57B.2.c.i

the notification of decisions,

3.7.57B.2.c.ii

the giving of reasons for decisions,

3.7.57B.2.d

imposing requirements in connection with the protection of the welfare of a
child being placed and kept in secure accommodation.

3.7.57B.3

Regulations under subsection (1) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

#### Compulsory supervision orders: directions authorising restriction of liberty

4

4.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 83 (meaning of “ compulsory supervision order ”)—

4.2.a

in subsection (2), at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “(but see subsection
(2A)),” ,

4.2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

4.2.b.2A

A direction of the type mentioned in subsection (2)(b) does not include
authorisation to deprive the child of their liberty.

.

#### Compulsory supervision orders: prohibitions

5

5.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

5.2

In section 83 (meaning of “ compulsory supervision order ”)—

5.2.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

5.2.a.ca

a prohibition on the child entering a specified place or description of place,

5.2.a.cb

a prohibition on the child approaching, communicating with or attempting to
approach or communicate with (whether directly or indirectly) a specified
person or class of person,

,

5.2.b

in subsection (8)—

5.2.b.i

in the opening words, for “subsection (2)” substitute  “this section” ,

5.2.b.ii

before the definition of “medical” insert—

      “ communicating with ” another person includes communicating with that
person by the use of social media or by any other electronic means,

.

#### Compulsory supervision orders: movement restriction conditions

6

6.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 83 (meaning of “ compulsory supervision order ”)—

6.2.a

in subsection (4)(a)—

6.2.a.i

for “more” substitute  “both” ,

6.2.a.ii

for “subsection (6)” substitute  “subsection (4A)” ,

6.2.b

after subsection (4) insert—

6.2.b.4A

The conditions referred to in subsection (4)(a) are—

6.2.b.4A.a

that the child’s health, safety or development is at risk,

6.2.b.4A.b

that the child is likely to cause physical or psychological harm to another
person.

.

6.3

In section 150 (movement restriction conditions: regulations etc.), in
subsection (2)—

6.3.a

in paragraph (b), after “of” insert  “monitoring a child’s movements or
whereabouts (including whether a child is at, or is not at, a particular
place) for the purpose of” ,

6.3.b

in paragraph (c), after “devices” insert  “(including any apparatus to be
linked to a device)” ,

6.3.c

after that paragraph insert—

6.3.c.ca

prescribe the circumstances or manner in which a specified device is, or is
not, to be used (including how or when a device is to be worn, or otherwise
used, by a child subject to a movement restriction condition),

6.3.c.cb

prescribe the circumstances or manner in which information obtained through
the monitoring of a child by means of such a device may, or may not, be
gathered, retained, used or shared for the purpose of the monitoring,

.

#### Compulsory supervision orders: secure accommodation authorisations

7

7.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 83 (meaning of “ compulsory supervision order ”)—

7.2.a

in subsection (6)—

7.2.a.i

in the opening words, after “conditions” insert  “referred to in subsection
(5)(b)” ,

7.2.a.ii

for paragraph (a) substitute—

7.2.a.ii.a

that—

7.2.a.ii.a.i

the child has previously absconded and is likely to abscond again unless the
child is kept in secure accommodation, and

7.2.a.ii.a.ii

if the child were to abscond, it is likely that the child’s health, safety or
development would be at risk,

,

7.2.a.iii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “unless the child is kept in secure
accommodation,” ,

7.2.a.iv

in paragraph (c), for “injury to another person” substitute  “physical or
psychological harm to another person unless the child is kept in secure
accommodation” ,

7.2.b

in subsection (8), after the definition of “medical” insert—

      “ psychological harm ” includes fear, alarm and distress,

.

7.3

In section 86 (meaning of “ interim compulsory supervision order ”), in
subsection (4)—

7.3.a

for “(3) to (6)” substitute  “(2A) to (8)” ,

7.3.b

for “subsection (5)(a)” substitute  “subsections (5)(a) and (7)” .

7.4

In section 87 (meaning of “ medical examination order ”)—

7.4.a

in subsection (4)—

7.4.a.i

for paragraph (a) substitute—

7.4.a.i.a

that—

7.4.a.i.a.i

the child has previously absconded and is likely to abscond again unless the
child is kept in secure accommodation, and

7.4.a.i.a.ii

if the child were to abscond, it is likely that the child’s health, safety or
development would be at risk,

,

7.4.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “unless the child is kept in secure
accommodation,” ,

7.4.a.iii

in paragraph (c), for “injury to another person” substitute  “physical or
psychological harm to another person unless the child is kept in secure
accommodation” ,

7.4.b

in subsection (5), after the definition of “medical” insert—

      “ psychological harm ” includes fear, alarm and distress,

.

7.5

In section 88 (meaning of “ warrant to secure attendance ”)—

7.5.a

in subsection (3)—

7.5.a.i

for paragraph (a) substitute—

7.5.a.i.a

that—

7.5.a.i.a.i

the child has previously absconded and is likely to abscond again unless the
child is kept in secure accommodation, and

7.5.a.i.a.ii

if the child were to abscond, it is likely that the child’s health, safety or
development would be at risk,

,

7.5.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “unless the child is kept in secure
accommodation,” ,

7.5.a.iii

in paragraph (c), for “injury to another person” substitute  “physical or
psychological harm to another person unless the child is kept in secure
accommodation” ,

7.5.b

in subsection (4), before the definition of “relevant period” insert—

      “ psychological harm ” includes fear, alarm and distress,

.

#### Provision of information to person affected by child's offence or behaviour

8

8.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 179A (request for information by person affected by child's offence
or behaviour)—

8.2.a

in subsection (5)—

8.2.a.i

at the beginning insert  “Subject to subsections (5A) and (5B),” ,

8.2.a.ii

for “may” substitute  “must, so far as reasonably practicable,” ,

8.2.b

after that subsection insert—

8.2.b.5A

The Principal Reporter may, where a person mentioned in subsection (4)(a) or
(b) is a child, inform any relevant person in relation to the child, as well
as, or instead of, the child, of the relevant person’s right to request
information under subsection (3).

8.2.b.5B

The Principal Reporter need not inform a person mentioned in subsection
(4)(a), (b) or (c) of the person’s right to request information under
subsection (3)—

8.2.b.5B.a

if the person has indicated (whether to the Principal Reporter or otherwise)
that they do not wish to exercise that right,

8.2.b.5B.b

if satisfied that doing so would be detrimental to the best interests of—

8.2.b.5B.b.i

the child mentioned in subsection (1),

8.2.b.5B.b.ii

where the person mentioned in subsection (4)(a) or (b) is a child, that child,
or

8.2.b.5B.b.iii

any other child, or

8.2.b.5B.c

if satisfied, having regard to the factors mentioned in section 179C(2), that
it would be inappropriate in the circumstances of the case to do so.

.

8.3

In section 179B (information to which section 179A applies)—

8.3.a

in subsection (1)—

8.3.a.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “subsection (2)(a)” substitute  “subsection (2)” ,

8.3.a.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “subsection (2)(b)” substitute  “subsection (3) and
the further information mentioned in subsection (4)” ,

8.3.a.iii

in paragraph (b), for “subsection (2)(b)” substitute  “subsection (3) and the
further information mentioned in subsection (4)” ,

8.3.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

8.3.b.2

The information referred to in subsection (1)(a)(i) is information as to—

8.3.b.2.a

what determination the Principal Reporter made under section 66(2), and

8.3.b.2.b

any other action taken by the Principal Reporter (under section 68(5) or
otherwise).

,

8.3.c

after subsection (2) insert—

8.3.c.3

The information referred to in subsection (1)(a)(ii) and (b) is—

8.3.c.3.a

information as to whether a compulsory supervision order has been made in
respect of the child or, as the case may be, whether a compulsory supervision
order which is already in force in respect of the child has been terminated,
varied or continued,

8.3.c.3.b

where such an order has been made or, as the case may be, varied or continued,
information as to—

8.3.c.3.b.i

whether a measure has been included in the order which prohibits the child
from approaching, communicating with, attempting to approach or communicate
with or otherwise contacting the person who made the request or, where that
person is a relevant person, the child in relation to whom that person is a
relevant person,

8.3.c.3.b.ii

whether a secure accommodation authorisation has been included in the order,

8.3.c.3.c

information as to how the referral to the children’s hearing was otherwise
discharged,

8.3.c.3.d

other information necessary to assist safety planning by or in relation to the
person who made the request or, where the person is a relevant person, the
child in relation to whom that person is a relevant person.

8.3.c.4

The further information referred to in subsection (1)(a)(ii) and (b) is—

8.3.c.4.a

where a compulsory supervision order has been made in respect of the child, or
such an order which is already in force in respect of the child has been
varied or continued—

8.3.c.4.a.i

information as to whether the order is subsequently varied or continued to
include, vary or remove a measure such as is mentioned in subsection (3)(b)(i)
or (ii),

8.3.c.4.a.ii

information as to whether the order is subsequently terminated,

8.3.c.4.b

where other changes relating to the child’s case occur, information necessary
to assist safety planning by or in relation to the person who made the request
or, where the person is a relevant person, the child in relation to whom that
person is a relevant person.

8.3.c.5

In this section, “ communicating with ” has the meaning given by section
83(8).

8.3.c.6

In this section and in section 179C, references to a compulsory supervision
order include references to an interim compulsory supervision order.

.

8.4

In section 179C (decision by Principal Reporter following request under
section 179A)—

8.4.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “the child mentioned in section 179A(1) (or any
other child),” substitute  “—

8.4.a.i

the child mentioned in section 179A(1),

8.4.a.ii

where a person mentioned in section 179A(4)(a) or (b) is a child, that child,
or

8.4.a.iii

any other child,

,

8.4.b

after subsection (3) insert—

8.4.b.4

But subsection (3) does not prohibit the Principal Reporter, when providing
information that a compulsory supervision order includes a measure mentioned
in section 179B(3)(b)(i), from providing information about the details of the
measure in so far as they relate to the person who made the request or, where
that person is a relevant person, the child in relation to whom that person is
a relevant person.

.

#### Support for victims in the children’s hearings system

9

9.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

9.2

After section 179C (decision by Principal Reporter following request for
information under section 179A) insert—

########## Support for persons affected by child’s offence or behaviour

9.2.179D

9.2.179D.1

The Scottish Ministers must, by regulations, make provision for or in
connection with the provision of support services to the persons mentioned in
subsection (2).

9.2.179D.2

Those persons are—

9.2.179D.2.a

persons against whom an offence mentioned in section 179A(1)(a)(i) or (b)
appears to have been committed,

9.2.179D.2.b

persons who appear to have been harmed by the action or behaviour of a child
as mentioned in section 179A(1)(a)(ii),

9.2.179D.2.c

where persons mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) are children, relevant persons
in relation to those children,

9.2.179D.2.d

any other persons or classes of person the Scottish Ministers may specify in
the regulations (subject to any conditions specified in the regulations).

9.2.179D.3

Regulations under subsection (1) must, for the purposes of the provision of
support services to persons mentioned in subsection (2), establish or specify
a person as a single point of contact for those persons.

9.2.179D.4

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular include provision about—

9.2.179D.4.a

the support services that may be provided,

9.2.179D.4.b

the training and qualifications of the person providing support services,

9.2.179D.4.c

the provision of information (including relevant information) to and by the
person providing support services, including that information is to be
provided in a way that is accessible to the person receiving it,

9.2.179D.4.d

the sharing of information with the person providing support services by other
persons, including the National Convener, the Principal Reporter, CHS, SCRA,
the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland and local authorities,

9.2.179D.4.e

the payment of expenses, fees and allowances to the person providing support
services (including who is to be responsible for making such payments).

9.2.179D.5

Regulations under subsection (1) may also modify sections 179A to 179C to
provide for—

9.2.179D.5.a

information mentioned in section 179B(1) to be provided to persons mentioned
in subsection (2) without the need for those persons to make a request under
section 179A(3) (including the circumstances in which such persons may opt out
of receiving such information),

9.2.179D.5.b

such information to be given by the Principal Reporter to the person providing
support services (either at the same time as, or instead of, to persons
mentioned in subsection (2)),

9.2.179D.5.c

the circumstances in which such information is to be provided to persons
mentioned in subsection (2) by the person providing support services rather
than by the Principal Reporter.

9.2.179D.6

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

9.2.179D.6.a

the Principal Reporter,

9.2.179D.6.b

the National Convener,

9.2.179D.6.c

persons who are providing support services to persons in relation to offences
perpetrated against or in respect of those persons,

9.2.179D.6.d

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

9.2.179D.7

Regulations under subsection (1) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

9.2.179D.8

In this section—

      “ relevant information ” includes—         information about—
the children’s hearings system (including about the interaction of that system
with the criminal justice system),           the action that can be taken by a
children’s hearing (including about the measures that can be included in a
compulsory supervision order),           the process for reviewing actions
taken by a children’s hearing (including the process for reviewing and
enforcing compulsory supervision orders), and                 where
regulations under subsection (1) make provision mentioned in subsection (5)(b)
or (c), information requested under section 179A(3),                 “ support
services ” (other than in subsection (6)(c)) includes the provision of
relevant information to persons mentioned in subsection (2) and otherwise has
the meaning given in regulations under subsection (1).

.

#### Support for victims in the children’s hearings system: review and report

10

10.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of each review period—

10.1.a

review the operation of support services provided, by virtue of regulations
under section 179D(1) of the 2011 Act, to persons mentioned in section 179D(2)
of that Act, and

10.1.b

prepare a report on the provision of such support services to those persons.

10.2

The review must in particular—

10.2.a

assess the effectiveness of support services by reference to, among other
things, the number of, and feedback from, persons to whom those services are
provided,

10.2.b

identify the steps (if any) that the Scottish Ministers consider should be
taken as a result of that assessment.

10.3

In carrying out the review, the Scottish Ministers must consult—

10.3.a

the National Convener of Children’s Hearings Scotland,

10.3.b

the Principal Reporter,

10.3.c

the single point of contact established or specified by virtue of section
179D(3) of the 2011 Act,

10.3.d

each local authority,

10.3.e

persons who are providing support services to persons in relation to offences
perpetrated against or in respect of those persons,

10.3.f

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

10.4

The report prepared under  subsection (1) (b)  must be—

10.4.a

laid before the Scottish Parliament, and

10.4.b

published in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

10.5

In this section—

      “ review period ” means the period of 2 years beginning with the day on
which regulations under section 179D(1) of the 2011 Act first come into force
and each subsequent period of 2 years,           “ support services ” has the
same meaning as in section 179D(8) of the 2011 Act.

#### Supervision or guidance post-18

11

11.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 138 (powers of children’s hearing on review)—

11.2.a

in subsection (6), after paragraph (a)—

11.2.a.i

“and” is repealed,

11.2.a.ii

insert—

11.2.a.ii.aa

consider whether such supervision or guidance will be needed by the child
after attaining the age of 18 years, and

,

11.2.b

after subsection (7) insert—

11.2.b.7A

Where the children’s hearing states that supervision or guidance will be
needed by a person after attaining the age of 18 years, the duty in subsection
(7)—

11.2.b.7A.a

continues to apply despite the person having attained that age,

11.2.b.7A.b

ceases to apply when the person attains the age of 19 years.

.

### Criminal justice and procedure

#### Involvement of children in criminal proceedings: general

##### Meaning of “child”

12

12.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”) is amended as
follows.

12.2

In section 307 (interpretation), in subsection (1), for the definition of
“child” substitute—

      “ child ” has the meaning given by section 199 of the Children’s
Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011,

.

##### Offences against children to which special provisions apply

13

13.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

13.2

In schedule 1 (offences against children under the age of 17 years to which
special provisions apply)—

13.2.a

in each of paragraphs 1D, 2A, 2B, 2C, 3, 4 and 4A, “under the age of 17 years”
is repealed,

13.2.b

in the heading, “under the age of 17 years” is repealed.

13.3

In section 46 (presumption and determination of age of child)—

13.3.a

in subsection (5), paragraph (b) and “or” immediately preceding it are
repealed,

13.3.b

in subsection (6), for “17” substitute  “18” ,

13.3.c

subsection (7) is repealed.

#### Prosecution of children

##### Prosecution of children over age of criminal responsibility

14

14.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

14.2

In section 42 (prosecution of children), in subsection (1), “but under 16
years” is repealed.

#### Safeguards for children involved in criminal proceedings

##### Custody of children before commencement of proceedings

15

15.1

The Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 (“ the 2016 Act ”) is amended as
follows.

15.2

In section 22 (under 18s to be kept in place of safety prior to court), in
subsection (1), for paragraph (b) substitute—

15.2.b

a constable believes the person is under 18 years of age.

.

15.3

In section 23 (notice to parent that under 18 to be brought before court)—

15.3.a

in subsection (1), for “16 years of age or over and subject to a supervision
order or under 16” substitute  “under 18” ,

15.3.b

in subsection (4), the definition of “supervision order” is repealed.

15.4

In section 24 (notice to local authority that under 18 to be brought before
court)—

15.4.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (a), for “either subsection (2) or (3)”
substitute  “subsection (2)” ,

15.4.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

15.4.b.2

This subsection applies to a person who is under 18 years of age.

,

15.4.c

subsection (3) is repealed.

15.5

In section 33 (consent to interview without solicitor)—

15.5.a

in subsection (1), for “Subsections (2) and (3) apply” substitute  “Subsection
(2) applies” ,

15.5.b

in subsection (2)—

15.5.b.i

in paragraph (a), for “16” substitute  “18” ,

15.5.b.ii

paragraph (b) is repealed,

15.5.b.iii

in paragraph (c), for “16” substitute  “18” ,

15.5.c

subsections (3), (4) and (5) are repealed.

15.6

In section 38 (right to have intimation sent to other person), in subsection
(7)—

15.6.a

the words from “to ascertain” to the end become paragraph (a),

15.6.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

15.6.b.b

for a local authority to give advice by virtue of section 41(9).

.

15.7

In section 41 (social work involvement in relation to under 18s)—

15.7.a

in subsection (1)—

15.7.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “the person may be subject to a supervision order”
substitute  “person to be under 18 years of age” ,

15.7.a.ii

paragraph (b) and “or” immediately preceding it are repealed,

15.7.b

after that subsection insert—

15.7.b.1A

Intimation of the following facts must also be sent to a local authority—

15.7.b.1A.a

where the person in custody declines to exercise the right to have intimation
sent under section 38, that fact,

15.7.b.1A.b

where the person in custody requests under section 39(3)(b) that the person to
whom intimation is to be sent under section 38 is not asked to attend at the
place where the person in custody is being held, that fact,

15.7.b.1A.c

where the person in custody requests under section 39(6)(b) that no further
attempt to send intimation under section 38 is made, that fact,

15.7.b.1A.d

where the person to whom intimation is sent under section 38—

15.7.b.1A.d.i

does not access the person in custody by virtue of the person in custody not
wishing that person to have access by virtue of section 40(2), or

15.7.b.1A.d.ii

is refused access to the person in custody or has such access restricted by
virtue of section 40(4),

that fact.

,

15.7.c

in subsection (2)—

15.7.c.i

in the opening words, after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ,

15.7.c.ii

paragraph (a) is repealed,

15.7.c.iii

in paragraph (b)—

15.7.c.iii.A

sub-paragraph (i) and “and” following it are repealed,

15.7.c.iii.B

in sub-paragraph (ii), “(having regard to the effect of subsection (4)(a))” is
repealed,

15.7.d

in subsection (4), paragraph (a) and “and” following it are repealed,

15.7.e

subsections (7) and (8) are repealed,

15.7.f

in subsection (9), for “The local authority” substitute  “A local authority
sent intimation under subsection (1) or (1A)” ,

15.7.g

subsection (10) is repealed.

##### Steps to safeguard welfare and safety of children in criminal proceedings

16

16.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

16.2

In section 50 (children and certain proceedings), after subsection (6) insert—

16.2.7

In complying with subsection (6) the court must, in particular, consider what
steps might be taken to facilitate the participation of the child in the
proceedings while safeguarding the child’s welfare and, where reasonably
practicable, take those steps.

.

16.3

After section 70A insert—

########### Children

############ Solemn proceedings against children

16.3.70B

16.3.70B.1

Where solemn proceedings are brought in respect of an offence alleged to have
been committed by a child, the court may sit either in a different building or
room from that in which it usually sits or on different days from those on
which other courts in the building are engaged in criminal proceedings.

16.3.70B.2

Where solemn proceedings are brought in respect of an offence alleged to have
been committed by a child, the court may direct that no person is to be
present at any sitting for the purposes of such proceedings except—

16.3.70B.2.a

members and officers of the court,

16.3.70B.2.b

parties to the case before the court, their solicitors and counsel, jurors,
witnesses and other persons directly concerned in that case,

16.3.70B.2.c

bona fide  representatives of news gathering or reporting organisations
present for the purpose of the preparation of contemporaneous reports of the
proceedings,

16.3.70B.2.d

such other persons as the court may specially authorise to be present.

16.3.70B.3

A court sitting for the purpose of hearing a charge against, or an application
relating to, a person who is believed to be a child may, if it thinks fit,
proceed with the hearing and determination of the charge or application even
though it is discovered that the person in question is not a child.

16.3.70B.4

Where solemn proceedings are brought in respect of an offence alleged to have
been committed by a child who is charged jointly with a person who is not a
child, the court must, in considering whether to take the steps mentioned in
subsection (1)  or to make a direction as mentioned in  subsection (2) , have
regard to the rights of the person with whom the child is jointly charged to
effectively participate in the proceedings.

.

16.4

In section 142 (summary proceedings against children), in subsection (5), at
the end insert  “: but see section 142A” .

16.5

After that section insert—

########### Summary proceedings where child accused along with an adult

16.5.142A

16.5.142A.1

Where summary proceedings are brought in respect of an offence alleged to have
been committed by a child who is charged jointly with a person who is not a
child, the sheriff may sit either in a different building or room from that in
which the sheriff usually sits or on different days from those on which other
courts in the building are engaged in criminal proceedings.

16.5.142A.2

Where summary proceedings are brought in respect of an offence alleged to have
been committed by a child who is charged jointly with a person who is not a
child, the sheriff may direct that no person is to be present at any sitting
for the purposes of such proceedings except—

16.5.142A.2.a

members and officers of the court,

16.5.142A.2.b

parties to the case before the court, their solicitors and counsel, and
witnesses and other persons directly concerned in that case,

16.5.142A.2.c

bona fide  representatives of news gathering or reporting organisations
present for the purpose of the preparation of contemporaneous reports of the
proceedings,

16.5.142A.2.d

such other persons as the sheriff may specially authorise to be present.

16.5.142A.3

A sheriff sitting summarily for the purpose of hearing a charge against, or an
application relating to, a person who is believed to be a child may, if the
sheriff thinks fit, proceed with the hearing and determination of the charge
or application even though it is discovered that the person in question is not
a child.

16.5.142A.4

Subsections (3) and (4) of section 142 apply to summary proceedings to which
this section applies as they apply to such proceedings to which section 142
applies.

16.5.142A.5

The sheriff must, in considering whether to take the steps mentioned in
subsection (1)  or to make a direction as mentioned in  subsection (2) , have
regard to the rights of the person with whom the child is jointly charged to
effectively participate in the proceedings.

.

#### Remit to children’s hearing from criminal courts

##### Referral or remit to Principal Reporter of children guilty of offences

17

17.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

17.2

In section 49 (reference or remit to children’s hearing)—

17.2.a

for subsections (1) to (3) substitute—

17.2.a.1

Where a child is charged summarily with an offence and pleads guilty to, or is
found guilty of, the offence, the court—

17.2.a.1.a

must—

17.2.a.1.a.i

request the Principal Reporter to arrange a children’s hearing for the
purposes of obtaining their advice as to the treatment of the child, or

17.2.a.1.a.ii

remit the case to the Principal Reporter to arrange for the disposal of the
case by a children’s hearing,

17.2.a.1.b

may, where  subsection (1C)  applies, dispose of the case itself.

17.2.a.1A

Where a child pleads guilty to, or is found guilty of, an offence in solemn
proceedings in the sheriff court, the court may—

17.2.a.1A.a

request the Principal Reporter to arrange a children’s hearing for the
purposes of obtaining their advice as to the treatment of the child,

17.2.a.1A.b

remit the case to the Principal Reporter to arrange for the disposal of the
case by a children’s hearing, or

17.2.a.1A.c

subject to  subsection (1B) , dispose of the case itself.

17.2.a.1B

Before disposing of the case itself, the court must, unless it determines that
it is not in the interests of justice to do so, or where  subsection (1C)
applies, request advice as mentioned in  subsection (1A) (a) .

17.2.a.1C

The court need not request advice as mentioned in  subsection (1) (a) (i)  or,
as the case may be,  (1B)  or remit the case to the Principal Reporter as
mentioned in  subsection (1) (a) (ii)  where—

17.2.a.1C.a

the child is within 6 months of attaining the age of 18 years, and

17.2.a.1C.b

the court considers that it would not be practicable in the circumstances to
do so.

17.2.a.1D

Where a child pleads guilty to, or is found guilty of, an offence in solemn
proceedings in the High Court, the court may—

17.2.a.1D.a

request the Principal Reporter to arrange a children’s hearing for the
purposes of obtaining their advice as to the treatment of the child,

17.2.a.1D.b

remit the case to the Principal Reporter to arrange for the disposal of the
case by a children’s hearing, or

17.2.a.1D.c

dispose of the case itself.

17.2.a.1E

Where the court requests advice as mentioned in  subsection (1) (a) (i) ,
(1A) (a)  or, as the case may be,  (1D) (a) , it may, after consideration of
the advice received from the children’s hearing—

17.2.a.1E.a

remit the case to the Principal Reporter to arrange for the disposal of the
case by a children’s hearing, or

17.2.a.1E.b

dispose of the case itself.

17.2.a.1F

Where section 51A of the Firearms Act 1968 or section 29 of the Violent Crime
Reduction Act 2006 applies, the court may not remit a case as mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) (ii) ,  (1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or, as the case may be,  (1E)
(a)  but must dispose of the case itself.

,

17.2.b

in subsection (4)—

17.2.b.i

after “Subject” insert  “to subsections  (4A) ,  (4B)  and  (4C)  and” ,

17.2.b.ii

for “subsection (1)(a) above or (7)(b) below,” substitute  “ subsection (1)
(a) (ii) ,  (1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or  (1E) (a) ,” ,

17.2.c

after subsection (4) insert—

17.2.c.4A

Where the offence to which the child pleads guilty, or of which the child is
found guilty, is an offence to which section 26, 34, 35 or 44 of the Road
Traffic Offenders Act 1988 applies, that section continues to apply despite
the case being remitted for disposal by a children’s hearing as mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) (ii) ,  (1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or, as the case may be,  (1E)
(a) .

17.2.c.4B

Where the offence to which the child pleads guilty, or of which the child is
found guilty, is an offence listed in schedule 3 of the Sexual Offences Act
2003, section 80 of that Act continues to apply, despite the case being
remitted for disposal by a children’s hearing as mentioned in  subsection (1)
(a) (ii) ,  (1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or, as the case may be,  (1E) (a) , to the
extent that its application does not depend on a determination by the court
that—

17.2.c.4B.a

there was a significant sexual aspect to the child’s behaviour in committing
the offence,

17.2.c.4B.b

it is appropriate for the child to be regarded, for the purposes of Part 2 of
that Act, to be a person who has committed the offence, or

17.2.c.4B.c

it is appropriate that Part 2 of that Act should apply in relation to the
child.

17.2.c.4C

Where the offence to which the child pleads guilty, or of which the child is
found guilty, is an offence in relation to which the court would be entitled,
under section 234A, or obliged, under section 234AZA, to make a non-harassment
order, those sections continue to apply despite the case being remitted for
disposal by a children’s hearing as mentioned in subsection (1)(a)(ii),
(1A)(b), (1D)(b) or, as the case may be, (1E)(a).

,

17.2.d

subsections (6) and (7) are repealed.

#### Remand, committal and detention of children

##### Remand and committal of children before trial or sentence

18

18.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

18.2

In section 51 (remand and committal of children and young persons)—

18.2.a

in subsection (1)—

18.2.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “16” substitute  “18” ,

18.2.a.ii

paragraph (aa) is repealed,

18.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “16” to the end substitute  “18 years, the court may
commit the person to a young offenders institution,” ,

18.2.c

in subsection (4A), for “paragraphs (a) or (aa)” substitute  “paragraph (a)” ,

18.2.d

subsection (5) is repealed,

18.2.e

after that subsection insert—

18.2.e.6

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about the detention
in secure accommodation of children who have been committed to a local
authority under subsection (1)(a).

18.2.e.7

Regulations under subsection (6) may, in particular, make provision about the
circumstances in which such children may remain in secure accommodation
despite attaining the age of 18 years (provided that no person may remain in
such accommodation after attaining the age of 19 years).

18.2.e.8

Regulations under subsection (6) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

##### Detention of children on conviction

19

19.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 44 (detention of children)—

19.2.a

in subsection (1)—

19.2.a.i

for “residential accommodation provided under Part 2 of the Children
(Scotland) Act 1995 by the appropriate local authority” substitute  “a
residential establishment” ,

19.2.a.ii

for “the local authority” substitute  “the appropriate local authority” ,

19.2.b

in subsection (5), “made by statutory instrument subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament” is repealed,

19.2.c

after that subsection insert—

19.2.c.5A

Regulations under subsection (5) may, in particular, make provision about the
circumstances in which such children may remain in secure accommodation
despite attaining the age of 18 years (provided that no person may remain in
such accommodation after attaining the age of 19 years).

19.2.c.5B

Regulations under subsection (5) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

,

19.2.d

in subsection (6), for “residential accommodation” substitute  “a residential
establishment” ,

19.2.e

in subsection (8)—

19.2.e.i

for “accommodation provided by the authority which released him” substitute
“establishment from which the child was released” ,

19.2.e.ii

for second “accommodation” substitute  “establishment” ,

19.2.e.iii

for “accommodation provided by that” substitute  “establishment chosen by the
appropriate local” ,

19.2.f

in subsection (9)—

19.2.f.i

for “residential accommodation provided” substitute  “a residential
establishment chosen” ,

19.2.f.ii

in each of paragraphs (a) and (b), for “residential accommodation” substitute
“a residential establishment” ,

19.2.g

in subsection (11), for the definition of “secure accommodation” substitute—

      “ residential establishment ” and “secure accommodation” have the
meanings given by section 202(1) of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act
2011.

.

19.3

In section 205 (punishment for murder), in subsection (2)—

19.3.a

for “under the age of 18 years” substitute  “a child” ,

19.3.b

after “place” insert  “(in any part of the United Kingdom)” ,

19.3.c

after “may” insert  “, subject to section 208A,” .

19.4

In section 207 (detention of young offenders), in subsection (2), for “16”
substitute  “18” .

19.5

In section 208 (detention of children convicted on indictment), in subsection
(1)—

19.5.a

after “place” insert  “(in any part of the United Kingdom)” ,

19.5.b

after second “may” insert  “, subject to section 208A,” .

19.6

After section 208 insert—

########### Detention of children under sections 205(2) and 208(1)

19.6.208A

19.6.208A.1

This section applies where a child is sentenced—

19.6.208A.1.a

to be detained without limit of time under section 205(2), or

19.6.208A.1.b

to be detained under section 208(1).

19.6.208A.2

The Scottish Ministers may not direct under section 205(2) or, as the case may
be, 208(1) that a child be detained in a prison or a young offenders
institution.

19.6.208A.3

The Scottish Ministers may direct that a child be detained in secure
accommodation.

19.6.208A.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about the detention
in secure accommodation of children to whom this section applies.

19.6.208A.5

Regulations under subsection (4) may, in particular, make provision about the
circumstances in which such children may remain in secure accommodation
despite attaining the age of 18 years (provided that no person may remain in
such accommodation after attaining the age of 19 years).

19.6.208A.6

Regulations under subsection (4) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

19.6.208A.7

In this section, “ secure accommodation ” has the meaning given by section
202(1) of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011.

.

19.7

In section 216 (fines: restriction on imprisonment for default), after
subsection (7) insert—

19.7.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about the detention
in secure accommodation of children to whom subsection (7) applies.

19.7.9

Regulations under subsection (8) may, in particular, make provision about the
circumstances in which such children may remain in secure accommodation
despite attaining the age of 18 years (provided that no person may remain in
such accommodation after attaining the age of 19 years).

19.7.10

Regulations under subsection (8) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

19.7.11

In this section, “ secure accommodation ” has the meaning given by section
202(1) of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011.

.

#### Mental health disposals for convicted children

##### Hospital directions

20

20.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

20.2

In section 59A (hospital directions)—

20.2.a

in subsection (1), “, not being a child,” is repealed,

20.2.b

in subsection (10), after the definition of “medical treatment” insert—

      “ sentence of imprisonment ” includes any sentence of detention,

.

#### Places where children can no longer be detained

##### Meanings of “young offenders institution” and “young offender”

21

21.1

The Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989 (“ the 1989 Act ”) is amended as follows.

21.2

In section 19 (remand centres and young offenders institutions), in subsection
(1)(b), for second “offenders” to the end substitute  “persons not less than
18 but under 21 years of age—

21.2.i

sentenced to detention in a young offenders institution, or

21.2.ii

remanded or committed in custody for trial or sentence,

may be kept.

.

21.3

The Prisons and Young Offenders Institutions (Scotland) Rules 2011 ( S.S.I.
2011/331 ) are amended as follows.

21.4

In rule 2(1) (interpretation), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “young
offender”, for “16” substitute  “18” .

##### Abolition of remand centres

22

22.1

The 1989 Act is amended as follows.

22.2

In section 19 (remand centres and young offenders institutions)—

22.2.a

in subsection (1), paragraph (a) and “and” immediately following it are
repealed,

22.2.b

subsection (2) is repealed,

22.2.c

in subsection (4)—

22.2.c.i

“remand centres,” is repealed,

22.2.c.ii

“centres or” is repealed,

22.2.d

in subsection (6), “remand centres,” is repealed,

22.2.e

in the section title, for “Remand centres and young” substitute  “Young” .

#### Local authority duties in relation to detained children

##### Duty of local authority to provide residential establishments for detained children

23

23.1

The Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 is amended as follows.

23.2

In section 59 (provision of residential and other establishments by local
authorities), in subsection (1)—

23.2.a

for second “under” substitute  “conferred under or by virtue of” ,

23.2.b

after “ 1995 (c.36) ” insert  “, the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995” .

##### Children detained in secure accommodation to be treated as “looked after” children

24

24.1

The Children (Scotland) Act 1995 is amended as follows.

24.2

After section 17 insert—

########### Detained children to be treated as looked after children

24.2.17A

24.2.17A.1

This section applies where a child is detained in secure accommodation by
virtue of section 51(1)(a), 205(2), 208(1) or, as the case may be, 216(7) of
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995.

24.2.17A.2

The relevant local authority in relation to the child has the same duties
towards the child as it would have by virtue of sections 17, 29, 30 and 31 if
the child were looked after by that local authority.

24.2.17A.3

In subsection (2), the “ relevant local authority ”, in relation to a child,
has the same meaning as in section 201 of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland)
Act 2011.

.

24.3

The Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014 is amended as follows.

24.4

In section 97 (interpretation), in subsection (2), for “section 17(6)”
substitute  “sections 17(6) and 17A(2)” .

### Secure transportation

#### Standards for provision of secure transportation

25

25.1

The Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014 is amended as follows.

25.2

After section 90 insert—

########## Secure transportation

########### Secure transportation: duty of Scottish Ministers to prepare and publish standards

25.2.90A

25.2.90A.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish standards applicable to any
service (a “secure transportation service”) which consists of or includes
providing secure transportation—

25.2.90A.1.a

for persons—

25.2.90A.1.a.i

who have not attained the age of 19 years, and

25.2.90A.1.a.ii

in relation to whom the taking to or the placing, keeping or detention in
secure accommodation is authorised or required under or by virtue of a
relevant enactment, and

25.2.90A.1.b

for the purpose of transporting those persons to or from secure accommodation.

25.2.90A.2

The standards—

25.2.90A.2.a

must include the minimum standards to be met by a provider of a secure
transportation service which may, in particular, relate to—

25.2.90A.2.a.i

the manner in which, and the extent to which, the service provider is to have
regard to the rights of the persons mentioned in subsection (1)(a) who require
to be transported to or from secure accommodation,

25.2.90A.2.a.ii

the establishment of measures and procedures to prevent or minimise a risk of
a serious incident occurring,

25.2.90A.2.a.iii

the establishment of measures and procedures to deal with, and prevent the
recurrence of, a serious incident,

25.2.90A.2.a.iv

the circumstances in which restraint or control of persons mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) who require to be transported to or from secure
accommodation may or may not be appropriate,

25.2.90A.2.a.v

the provision of training and support to staff to ensure the safe
transportation of the persons mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to or from secure
accommodation,

25.2.90A.2.b

may include such further provision in connection with the provision of a
secure transportation service as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

25.2.90A.3

The Scottish Ministers may make different provision for different kinds of
secure transportation service.

25.2.90A.4

The Scottish Ministers—

25.2.90A.4.a

must publish the first standards under subsection (1) no later than one year
after the day on which  section 25  of the Children (Care and Justice)
(Scotland) Act 2024 comes into force,

25.2.90A.4.b

must keep the standards published under subsection (1) under review,

25.2.90A.4.c

may, under subsection (1), publish revised standards whenever they consider it
appropriate to do so, and

25.2.90A.4.d

must lay a copy of the first published standards, and any published revised
standards, before the Scottish Parliament.

25.2.90A.5

Before publishing the standards or any revised standards under subsection (1),
the Scottish Minsters must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

25.2.90A.6

In this section—

      “ relevant enactment ” means the following enactments—         the
Children (Scotland) Act 1995,           the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995,           the Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act 2007,           the
Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011,                 “ secure
accommodation ” has the meaning given by section 202(1) of the Children’s
Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011,           “ secure transportation ” means
transportation which provides such additional security and support measures as
are required to prevent or minimise a risk—         to the health, safety or
welfare of a person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) who is being transported to
or from secure accommodation,           which that person may pose to the
safety of any other person,                 “ serious incident ” includes an
incident involving a person mentioned in subsection (1)(a)—         absconding
or attempting to abscond,           suffering harm (including self-harm) or
ill-health (whether physical or mental),           causing harm to another
person, or           causing (whether directly or indirectly) damage to
property,         whilst being transported to or from secure accommodation.

25.2.90A.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “relevant
enactment” in subsection (6) by—

25.2.90A.7.a

adding an enactment,

25.2.90A.7.b

removing an enactment for the time being listed in it,

25.2.90A.7.c

varying a reference to an enactment for the time being listed in it.

########### Secure transportation: duty of providers to meet standards

25.2.90B

25.2.90B.1

The provider of a secure transportation service must meet the applicable
standards.

25.2.90B.2

The persons mentioned in subsection (3) must, when making arrangements with
another person for the provision of a secure transportation service, ensure
that the service meets the applicable standards.

25.2.90B.3

The persons are—

25.2.90B.3.a

a local authority,

25.2.90B.3.b

the Scottish Ministers.

25.2.90B.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection (3) by—

25.2.90B.4.a

adding a person or description of persons,

25.2.90B.4.b

removing a person or description of persons for the time being listed in it,

25.2.90B.4.c

varying a description of a person for the time being listed in it.

25.2.90B.5

In this section and in  section 90C —

      “ applicable standards ” means the standards, or (as the case may be)
any revised standards, published under section 90A(1) which apply to the
secure transportation service being provided,           “ secure
transportation service ” has the meaning given by section 90A(1).

########### Secure transportation: reports

25.2.90C

25.2.90C.1

Subsection (2)  applies where a relevant person has, during the reporting
period—

25.2.90C.1.a

provided a secure transportation service,

25.2.90C.1.b

made arrangements with another person for the provision of a secure
transportation service.

25.2.90C.2

The relevant person must, as soon as reasonably practicable (and in any event
no later than 3 months) after the end of the reporting period—

25.2.90C.2.a

prepare a report on—

25.2.90C.2.a.i

how the relevant person monitored the secure transportation service provided
or arranged by the relevant person to ensure that the service met the
applicable standards during the reporting period,

25.2.90C.2.a.ii

the extent to which the service met the applicable standards during the
reporting period,

25.2.90C.2.b

publish the report, and

25.2.90C.2.c

send a copy of the report to the Scottish Ministers.

25.2.90C.3

Reports prepared under  subsection (2)  are to be published in such manner as
the relevant person considers appropriate (and, in particular, reports may be
published together with, or as part of, any other report or document).

25.2.90C.4

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable (and in any
event no later than 6 months) after the end of the reporting period—

25.2.90C.4.a

prepare a report (“the consolidated report”) on—

25.2.90C.4.a.i

how the relevant persons to whom  subsection (1)  applies have ensured that
the secure transportation services provided or arranged by those relevant
persons have met the applicable standards during the reporting period,

25.2.90C.4.a.ii

the extent to which those services met the applicable standards during the
reporting period,

25.2.90C.4.b

publish the consolidated report in such manner as the Scottish Ministers
consider appropriate, and

25.2.90C.4.c

lay a copy of the consolidated report before the Scottish Parliament.

25.2.90C.5

Where the Scottish Ministers have provided or made arrangements for the
provision of a secure transportation service during the reporting period, the
consolidated report must include a report on—

25.2.90C.5.a

how the Scottish Ministers monitored the service to ensure it met the
applicable standards during the reporting period,

25.2.90C.5.b

the extent to which the service met the applicable standards during the
reporting period.

25.2.90C.6

The consolidated report may include such other information as the Scottish
Ministers consider appropriate.

25.2.90C.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations prescribe information that reports
prepared under subsection (2) must contain.

25.2.90C.8

In this section—

      “ relevant person ” means a local authority,           “ reporting
period ” means—         the period of 3 years beginning with the day on which
section 25  of the Children (Care and Justice) (Scotland) Act 2024 comes into
force, and           each subsequent period of 3 years until a date specified
in regulations made by the Scottish Ministers.

25.2.90C.9

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “relevant
person” in  subsection (8)  by—

25.2.90C.9.a

adding a person or description of persons,

25.2.90C.9.b

removing a person or description of persons for the time being mentioned in
it,

25.2.90C.9.c

varying a description of a person for the time being mentioned in it.

.

25.3

In section 99 (subordinate legislation)—

25.3.a

in subsection (1), after “order” insert  “or regulations” ,

25.3.b

in subsection (2)—

25.3.b.i

after “order” insert  “or (as the case may be) regulations” ,

25.3.b.ii

after “section 71(5)(b)” insert—

      section 90A(7)           section 90B(4)           section 90C(9)

,

25.3.c

in subsection (4), after “order” insert  “or regulations” .

### Residential and secure care

#### Meaning of “secure accommodation”

26

26.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

26.2

In section 202 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

26.2.a

in the definition of “secure accommodation”—

26.2.a.i

in the opening words, “accommodation provided for the purpose of restricting
the liberty of children which” is repealed,

26.2.a.ii

for paragraph (a) substitute—

26.2.a.ii.a

in relation to Scotland, accommodation provided for the purpose of depriving
children of their liberty which is provided—

26.2.a.ii.a.i

in a residential establishment,

26.2.a.ii.a.ii

by a secure accommodation service,

,

26.2.a.iii

in paragraph (b), for “in England,” substitute  “in relation to England,
accommodation provided for the purpose of restricting the liberty of children
which” ,

26.2.a.iv

in paragraph (c), for “in Wales,” substitute  “in relation to Wales,
accommodation provided for the purpose of restricting the liberty of children
which” ,

26.2.b

after the definition of “secure accommodation authorisation” insert—

      “ secure accommodation service ” means a service—         which is
approved by the Scottish Ministers—         under paragraph 6(c) of schedule
12 of the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010, and           in
accordance with regulations made under section 78A of that Act, and
in respect of which a person is registered under Part 5 of that Act,

.

#### Secure accommodation services

27

27.1

The Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 (“ the 2010 Act ”) is amended
as follows.

27.2

After section 78 insert—

########## Regulations: approval of secure accommodation services

27.2.78A

27.2.78A.1

Regulations may make provision about the approval of secure accommodation
services by the Scottish Ministers under paragraph 6(c) of schedule 12.

27.2.78A.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may, in particular, make provision about—

27.2.78A.2.a

the making of applications for such approval, including—

27.2.78A.2.a.i

the categories of applicant who cannot competently make an application,

27.2.78A.2.a.ii

the form and content of applications,

27.2.78A.2.a.iii

the information to be provided in connection with applications,

27.2.78A.2.a.iv

the modification of applications,

27.2.78A.2.b

the procedure to be followed by the Scottish Ministers when making decisions
on applications, including—

27.2.78A.2.b.i

the criteria to be applied,

27.2.78A.2.b.ii

the matters to be taken into account or disregarded,

27.2.78A.2.b.iii

the notification of decisions,

27.2.78A.2.b.iv

the giving of reasons for decisions,

27.2.78A.2.c

the duration of approvals,

27.2.78A.2.d

the attaching of conditions to approvals,

27.2.78A.2.e

the variation of any conditions attached to approvals,

27.2.78A.2.f

the review of approvals,

27.2.78A.2.g

the renewal of approvals,

27.2.78A.2.h

the withdrawal of approvals,

27.2.78A.2.i

appeals against decisions to—

27.2.78A.2.i.i

attach conditions to approvals,

27.2.78A.2.i.ii

vary conditions attached to approvals,

27.2.78A.2.i.iii

refuse or withdraw approvals.

27.2.78A.3

Regulations under subsection (1) must include provision requiring the Scottish
Ministers, before approving a secure accommodation service, to be satisfied
that the service will ensure that a child is not placed in the same
residential establishment as another child where—

27.2.78A.3.a

in proceedings under the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011, it has been
established that—

27.2.78A.3.a.i

the child has committed an offence against or in respect of the other child,
or

27.2.78A.3.a.ii

the child has acted or behaved in a way that has had, or is likely to have
had, a serious adverse effect on the health, safety or development of the
other child, or

27.2.78A.3.b

in criminal proceedings, the child has pled guilty to, or been found guilty
of, having committed an offence against or in respect of the other child.

.

27.3

In section 104 (orders and regulations: procedure), in subsection (2), for “or
78” substitute  “, 78 or 78A” .

27.4

In schedule 12 (care services: definitions), for paragraph 6 substitute—

27.4.6

A “secure accommodation service” is a service which—

27.4.6.a

provides accommodation in a residential establishment for the purpose of
depriving children of their liberty,

27.4.6.b

also provides, in such an establishment, appropriate care, education and
support—

27.4.6.b.i

for the purposes of safeguarding and promoting the welfare of the children who
are accommodated there, and

27.4.6.b.ii

that takes account of the effects of trauma which the children may have
experienced,

27.4.6.c

is approved by the Scottish Ministers, in accordance with regulations made
under section 78A, for those purposes.

27.4.6A

In paragraph 6(a), “ residential establishment ” has the meaning given by
section 105(1).

27.4.6B

In paragraph 6(b), “ appropriate care, education and support ” means the kind
of care, education and support required to meet the health, educational and
other needs of the children.

.

27.5

The Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland (Requirements for Care
Services) Regulations 2011 ( S.S.I. 2011/210 ) are amended as follows.

27.6

In regulation 10 (fitness of premises), paragraph (3) is revoked.

#### Regulation of care services providing residential accommodation to children

28

28.1

The 2010 Act is amended as follows.

28.2

In section 50 (standards and outcomes)—

28.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

28.2.a.1A

The Scottish Ministers may also prepare and publish specific standards and
outcomes applicable to the care services mentioned in subsection (1B) in so
far as they consist of, or include, providing residential accommodation to
children in accordance with arrangements made for cross-border placements.

28.2.a.1B

Those care services are—

28.2.a.1B.a

care home services which are provided wholly or mainly to children,

28.2.a.1B.b

school care accommodation services,

28.2.a.1B.c

secure accommodation services.

,

28.2.b

in subsection (2), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ,

28.2.c

in subsection (3), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ,

28.2.d

in subsection (4), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “subsections (1) and (1A)”
,

28.2.e

in subsection (5), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “subsections (1) and (1A)”
,

28.2.f

at the end of subsection (7) insert  “or (1A).” .

28.3

After section 59 insert—

########## Further provision in relation to registration of certain care services

28.3.59A

28.3.59A.1

This section applies to an application made under section 59(1) for
registration of any of the following care services—

28.3.59A.1.a

a care home service which is to be provided wholly or mainly to children,

28.3.59A.1.b

a school care accommodation service,

28.3.59A.1.c

a secure accommodation service.

28.3.59A.2

In addition to giving the information mentioned in section 59(2), the
application must—

28.3.59A.2.a

give such information as may be prescribed about matters relating to cross-
border placements,

28.3.59A.2.b

confirm that notice of the application has been given in the prescribed form
to the persons mentioned in subsection (3), who are responsible for preparing
a children’s services plan in accordance with Part 3 of the Children and Young
People (Scotland) Act 2014 (“ the 2014 Act ”).

28.3.59A.3

Those persons are—

28.3.59A.3.a

the local authority for each area in which the service is to be provided, and

28.3.59A.3.b

the relevant health board (as defined by section 7(1) of the 2014 Act) for
each such area.

28.3.59A.4

If an application does not include the confirmation required by subsection
(2)(b), SCSWIS may not consider the application until such confirmation is
given.

.

28.4

In section 78 (regulations: care services), after subsection (2) insert—

28.4.2A

Regulations under subsection (2) may, in particular, impose specific
requirements on any of the care services mentioned in subsection (2B) in so
far as they consist of, or include, providing residential accommodation to
children in accordance with arrangements made for cross-border placements.

28.4.2B

Those care services are—

28.4.2B.a

care home services which are provided wholly or mainly to children,

28.4.2B.b

school care accommodation services,

28.4.2B.c

secure accommodation services.

.

28.5

In section 105 (interpretation of Part 5), in subsection (1)—

28.5.a

in paragraph (c) of the definition of “child”, after “purposes of” insert
“sections 50(1A) and (1B), 59A and 78(2A) and (2B) and” ,

28.5.b

after the definition of “condition notice” insert—

      “ cross-border placement ” means the placement of a child in a
residential establishment in Scotland where—         the child was,
immediately before the placement, resident in England, Wales or Northern
Ireland, and           the placement is authorised under the law in England
and Wales or, as the case may be, in Northern Ireland by virtue of—         an
order made by a court in England and Wales or in Northern Ireland,
any provision made by or under an Act of Parliament, an Act of Senedd Cymru,
or Northern Ireland legislation (as defined by section 98(1) of the Northern
Ireland Act 1998), whenever passed or made;

,

28.5.c

after the definition of “relative” insert—

      “ residential establishment ” means an establishment (whether managed by
a local authority, a voluntary organisation or any other person) which
provides residential accommodation for children for the purposes of the Social
Work (Scotland) Act 1968, the Children (Scotland) Act 1995, the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 or the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011;

.

#### Cross-border placements: effect of orders made outwith Scotland

29

29.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

29.2

In section 190 (effect of orders made outwith Scotland)—

29.2.a

in subsection (1), for “as if it were such an order” substitute  “in Scotland”
,

29.2.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

29.2.b.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular—

29.2.b.2.a

provide that a non-Scottish order is to have such effect only—

29.2.b.2.a.i

in specified circumstances,

29.2.b.2.a.ii

for specified purposes,

29.2.b.2.a.iii

subject to specified conditions,

29.2.b.2.b

provide that a non-Scottish order is—

29.2.b.2.b.i

to have effect as if it were a compulsory supervision order, or

29.2.b.2.b.ii

to have such other effect as may be specified,

29.2.b.2.c

include provision—

29.2.b.2.c.i

requiring specified persons to provide or share specified information,

29.2.b.2.c.ii

requiring specified persons to provide, or make arrangements for the provision
of, any services which are needed to support a child who is the subject of a
non-Scottish order,

29.2.b.2.c.iii

requiring specified persons to meet the costs incurred in relation to, or as a
consequence of, giving effect to a non-Scottish order in Scotland,

29.2.b.2.c.iv

in connection with the safeguarding and promotion of the welfare of a child
who is the subject of a non-Scottish order,

29.2.b.2.d

make provision for or in connection with—

29.2.b.2.d.i

the monitoring of whether any condition specified by virtue of paragraph
(a)(iii) is being met in relation to a non-Scottish order,

29.2.b.2.d.ii

the consequences of such a specified condition not being met,

29.2.b.2.d.iii

the monitoring of whether any requirement imposed is being complied with in
relation to a non-Scottish order (where compliance with the requirement is not
a condition specified by virtue of paragraph (a)(iii)),

29.2.b.2.d.iv

the consequences of failing to comply with such a requirement.

29.2.b.2A

Regulations under subsection (1)—

29.2.b.2A.a

may modify any enactment in its application by virtue of the regulations to a
non-Scottish order, including—

29.2.b.2A.a.i

the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968,

29.2.b.2A.a.ii

the Children (Scotland) Act 1995,

29.2.b.2A.a.iii

this Act,

29.2.b.2A.b

are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

#### Regulation of cross-border placements

30

30.1

The Children (Scotland) Act 1995 is amended as follows.

30.2

After section 33 insert—

########## Regulation of cross-border placements

30.2.33A

30.2.33A.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision in relation to cross-
border placements.

30.2.33A.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular include provision—

30.2.33A.2.a

requiring specified persons to provide or share specified information,

30.2.33A.2.b

requiring specified persons to provide, or make arrangements for the provision
of, any services which are needed to support a child who is the subject of a
cross-border placement,

30.2.33A.2.c

requiring specified persons to meet the costs incurred in relation to, or as a
consequence of, a cross-border placement,

30.2.33A.2.d

requiring a cross-border placement to be kept under review,

30.2.33A.2.e

in connection with the safeguarding and promotion of the welfare of a child
who is the subject of a cross-border placement.

30.2.33A.3

Regulations under subsection (1)—

30.2.33A.3.a

may modify any enactment in its application by virtue of the regulations to a
cross-border placement, including—

30.2.33A.3.a.i

the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968,

30.2.33A.3.a.ii

this Act,

30.2.33A.3.b

may make any incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional,
transitory or saving provision that the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to the regulations,

30.2.33A.3.c

are subject to the affirmative procedure.

30.2.33A.4

In this section, “ cross-border placement ” means the placement of a child in
a residential establishment in Scotland where—

30.2.33A.4.a

the child was, immediately before the placement, resident in England, Wales or
Northern Ireland, and

30.2.33A.4.b

the placement is authorised under the law in England and Wales or, as the case
may be, in Northern Ireland by virtue of—

30.2.33A.4.b.i

an order made by a court in England and Wales or in Northern Ireland,

30.2.33A.4.b.ii

any provision made by or under an Act of Parliament, an Act of Senedd Cymru,
or Northern Ireland legislation (as defined by section 98(1) of the Northern
Ireland Act 1998), whenever passed or made.

.

### Antisocial behaviour orders, named person and child’s plan

#### Antisocial behaviour orders relating to children

31

31.1

The Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004 is amended as follows.

31.2

In section 13 (sheriff’s power to make parenting order), in subsection (3), in
the definition of “parent”, for “has the meaning” substitute  “and “child”
have the meanings” .

31.3

In section 18 (interpretation of Part 2), for the definition of “child”
substitute—

      “ child ” (other than in section 13) means a person who is under the age
of 18 years;

.

#### Named person and child’s plan

32

In the Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014, the following provisions
are repealed—

32.a

Part 4 and schedule 2, and

32.b

Part 5 and schedule 3.

### UNCRC compatibility issues in criminal proceedings

#### UNCRC compatibility issues in relation to decisions to prosecute children

33

33.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

33.2

After section 288B insert—

########## UNCRC compatibility issue in relation to decision to prosecute child: restriction on judicial remedies

33.2.288BZA

33.2.288BZA.1

This section applies where—

33.2.288BZA.1.a

by virtue of section 7(1)(b) of the UNCRC Incorporation Act, a UNCRC
compatibility issue has arisen—

33.2.288BZA.1.a.i

in criminal proceedings brought against a person who is a child, or who was a
child at the time the proceedings were brought,

33.2.288BZA.1.a.ii

otherwise than in connection with an appeal against conviction or an appeal
against both conviction and sentence,

33.2.288BZA.1.b

in determining the UNCRC compatibility issue, a court finds that the
prosecutor, by bringing criminal proceedings against the person, has acted in
a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1) of the UNCRC Incorporation Act,
and

33.2.288BZA.1.c

by reason only of the finding mentioned in paragraph (b), a court is
considering—

33.2.288BZA.1.c.i

deserting the proceedings  pro loco et tempore  or  simpliciter , or

33.2.288BZA.1.c.ii

dismissing the indictment or (as the case may be) the complaint or any part of
it.

33.2.288BZA.2

Despite section 8(1) of the UNCRC Incorporation Act, a court—

33.2.288BZA.2.a

may not—

33.2.288BZA.2.a.i

desert the proceedings  pro loco et tempore  or  simpliciter , except on the
motion of the prosecutor, or

33.2.288BZA.2.a.ii

dismiss the indictment or (as the case may be) the complaint or any part of
it, but

33.2.288BZA.2.b

must instead—

33.2.288BZA.2.b.i

give the prosecutor an opportunity to reconsider the bringing of criminal
proceedings against the person in a way which is compatible with the UNCRC
requirements,

33.2.288BZA.2.b.ii

adjourn or continue the proceedings to another diet to allow such
reconsideration, and

33.2.288BZA.2.b.iii

following any such reconsideration, decide whether the bringing of criminal
proceedings against the person is compatible with the UNCRC requirements.

33.2.288BZA.3

But a court is not required to act in accordance with subsection (2) if—

33.2.288BZA.3.a

it considers that there is no reasonable prospect of the bringing of criminal
proceedings against the person being reconsidered in a way which is compatible
with the UNCRC requirements,

33.2.288BZA.3.b

it considers that there are exceptional circumstances which justify not doing
so, or

33.2.288BZA.3.c

it decides under subsection (2)(b)(iii) that the bringing of criminal
proceedings against the person is incompatible with the UNCRC requirements.

33.2.288BZA.4

Subsection (5) applies where—

33.2.288BZA.4.a

the court adjourns or continues the proceedings in accordance with subsection
(2)(b)(ii), or

33.2.288BZA.4.b

by virtue of subsection (3), the court decides to desert the proceedings  pro
loco et tempore .

33.2.288BZA.5

Before adjourning or continuing the proceedings or (as the case may be)
deserting the proceedings  pro loco et tempore , the court must give the
prosecutor an opportunity—

33.2.288BZA.5.a

in solemn proceedings, to make an application under section 65(3) or (5) for
an extension of any of the following periods which apply in respect of the
proceedings—

33.2.288BZA.5.a.i

the periods of 11 months and 12 months mentioned in section 65(1), including
those periods as extended under section 65(3), on appeal under section 65(8)
or under section 74(4)(c),

33.2.288BZA.5.a.ii

the periods of 80 days, 110 days and 140 days mentioned in section 65(4),
including those periods as extended under section 65(5) or on appeal under
section 65(8),

33.2.288BZA.5.b

in summary proceedings in respect of which the period of 40 days mentioned in
section 147(1) applies, to make an application under section 147(2) for an
extension of that period, including that period as extended under section
147(2) or on appeal under section 147(3).

33.2.288BZA.6

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i), the proceedings are taken to be
brought—

33.2.288BZA.6.a

in solemn proceedings, on the date on which the indictment is served,

33.2.288BZA.6.b

in summary proceedings—

33.2.288BZA.6.b.i

in a case where a warrant to apprehend or cite the accused is granted, on the
date on which the warrant is granted, or

33.2.288BZA.6.b.ii

in any other case, on the date on which the complaint is served.

33.2.288BZA.7

In this section—

      “ prosecutor ” does not include a private prosecutor,           “ the
UNCRC requirements ” has the meaning given in section 1(2) of the UNCRC
Incorporation Act,           “ UNCRC compatibility issue ” means a question of
the kind mentioned in section 288AB(1)(b),           “ UNCRC Incorporation Act
” means the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child
(Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024.

.

33.3

The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation)
(Scotland) Act 2024 is amended as follows.

33.4

In section 8 (judicial remedies), after subsection (5) insert—

33.4.6

Section 288BZA of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 modifies the
court’s power under subsection (1) in relation to certain UNCRC compatibility
issues in criminal proceedings.

.

### Review of Act

#### Review of Act

34

34.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of each review period—

34.1.a

undertake a review of the operation of this Act, and

34.1.b

prepare a report on that review.

34.2

The report must, in particular, set out—

34.2.a

whether sufficient resources are in place for the effective implementation of
the Act,

34.2.b

what steps (if any) the Scottish Ministers intend to take as a result of the
findings of the review.

34.3

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after preparing
the report—

34.3.a

publish the report, and

34.3.b

lay the report before the Scottish Parliament.

34.4

For the purposes of this section, “ review period ” means—

34.4.a

the period of one year beginning with the day of Royal Assent,

34.4.b

each subsequent period of one year.

### Final provisions

#### Ancillary provision

35

35.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act.

35.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

35.3

Regulations under subsection (1)—

35.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act (including this Act),

35.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Interpretation

36

In this Act—

      “ 1989 Act ” means the Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989,           “ 1995 Act
” means the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,           “ 2010 Act ”
means the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010,           “ 2011 Act ”
means the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011,           “ 2016 Act ”
means the Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016.

#### Modification of enactments

37

The schedule  makes further modifications of enactments in consequence of this
Act.

#### Commencement

38

38.1

This section  and  sections 35 ,  36  and  39  come into force on the day
after Royal Assent.

38.2

Section 33  comes into force on whichever is the later of—

38.2.a

the day after Royal Assent,

38.2.b

16 July 2024.

38.3

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

38.4

Regulations under  subsection (3)  may—

38.4.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

38.4.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

39

The short title of this Act is the Children (Care and Justice) (Scotland) Act
2024.

  Minor and consequential modifications

Introduced by section 37

##### Children’s hearings system

###### Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011

1

1.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 73 (child’s duty to attend children’s hearing), in subsection
(3)(b), for “physical, mental or moral welfare” substitute  “health, safety or
development” .

1.3

In section 103 (child’s duty to attend hearing unless excused), in subsection
(3)(b), for “physical, mental or moral welfare” substitute  “health, safety or
development” .

##### Age of Criminal Responsibility

###### Age of Criminal Responsibility (Scotland) Act 2019

2

2.1

The Age of Criminal Responsibility (Scotland) Act 2019 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 39 (limitation on police questioning of certain children), in
subsection (3), the definition of “child” is repealed.

2.3

In section 58 (limitation on taking prints and samples from children under
12), subsection (6)(b) is repealed.

2.4

In section 76 (interpretation of Part 4), the definition of “child” is
repealed.

2.5

In section 80 (interpretation), in the definition of “child”, for “16 years of
age (except where provided otherwise: see section 39(3))” substitute  “18
years of age” .

##### Offences against children to which special provisions apply

###### Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995

3

3.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 48 (power to refer certain children to the reporter), in subsection
(2)(c), for “17” substitute  “18” .

3.3

In section 50 (children and certain proceedings), in subsection (5)—

3.3.a

for “person under the age of 17 years” substitute  “child” ,

3.3.b

for second “person” substitute  “child” .

###### Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011

4

4.1

The 2011 Act is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 67 (meaning of “ section 67 ground ”), in subsection (6), in the
definition of “schedule 1 offence”, “under 17 years of age” is repealed.

###### National Health Service (General Medical Services Contracts) (Scotland) Regulations 2004

5

In the National Health Service (General Medical Services Contracts) (Scotland)
Regulations 2004 ( S.S.I. 2004/115 ), in regulation 5(2)(h), “under the age of
17 years” is revoked.

###### Adoptions with a Foreign Element (Scotland) Regulations 2009

6

In the Adoptions with a Foreign Element (Scotland) Regulations 2009 ( S.S.I.
2009/182 ), in paragraph 2 of schedule 1, “under the age of 17 years” is
revoked.

##### Remit to children’s hearing from criminal courts

###### Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995

7

7.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 106 (right of appeal in solemn proceedings), in subsection (1)(da),
for “49(1)(a)” substitute  “49 (1) (a) (ii) ,  (1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or  (1E)
(a) ” .

7.3

In section 108 (Lord Advocate’s right of appeal against disposal), in
subsection (1)(f), for “49(1)(a)” substitute  “49 (1) (a) (ii) ,  (1A) (b) ,
(1D) (b)  or  (1E) (a) ” .

7.4

In section 175 (right of appeal in summary proceedings)—

7.4.a

in subsection (1)(ca), for “49(1)(a) or (7)(b)” substitute  “49 (1) (a) (ii) ,
(1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or  (1E) (a) ” ,

7.4.b

in subsection (4)(f), for “49(1)(a) or (7)(b)” substitute  “49 (1) (a) (ii) ,
(1A) (b) ,  (1D) (b)  or  (1E) (a) ” .

##### Criminal procedure: miscellaneous modifications

###### Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968

8

8.1

The Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 27(1) (supervision and care of persons put on probation or released
from prisons etc.), in paragraph (b)(vb), for “16” substitute  “18” .

###### Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993

9

9.1

The Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 is amended as
follows.

9.2

In section 7 (children detained in solemn proceedings)—

9.2.a

in subsection (2A), “in a young offenders institution” is repealed,

9.2.b

for subsection (2C) substitute—

9.2.b.2C

In a case where subsection (2A) applies and the single term mentioned in that
subsection is of four or more years, this Part applies to the person as if the
single term were an equivalent sentence of detention or, as the case may be,
imprisonment.

.

###### Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995

10

10.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

10.2

In section 205ZC (terrorism sentence with fixed licence period), in subsection
(4), for “16” substitute  “18” .

10.3

In section 245A (restriction of liberty orders), in subsection (11A), for
“under 16 years of age” substitute  “a child” .

10.4

In section 248D (extension of disqualification where sentence of imprisonment
also imposed), in subsection (10), in the definition of “sentence of
imprisonment”, for “residential accommodation” substitute  “a residential
establishment” .

###### Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004

11

11.1

The Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004 is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 111 (restriction on reporting proceedings relating to parenting
orders), in subsection (6), for “(1)(a)” substitute  “(1A)(a)” .

##### Abolition of remand centres

###### Children and Young Persons (Scotland) Act 1937

12

12.1

The Children and Young Persons (Scotland) Act 1937 is amended as follows.

12.2

Section 62 (power of Secretary of State to send certain juvenile offenders to
approved schools) is repealed.

###### Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1980

13

13.1

The Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1980 is amended as
follows.

13.2

In schedule 1 (ineligibility for and disqualification and excusal from jury
service), in Group B of Part 1, in paragraph (o), “, remand centres” and “,
borstal institutions” are repealed.

###### Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989

14

14.1

The 1989 Act is amended as follows.

14.2

In section 20 (temporary detention of persons liable to detention in young
offenders institution or remand centre)—

14.2.a

“or remand centre” is repealed,

14.2.b

in the section title, “or remand centre” is repealed.

14.3

In section 20A (transfer of young offenders to prison or remand centre)—

14.3.a

in subsection (2)—

14.3.a.i

“or remand centre” is repealed,

14.3.a.ii

the words from“, but” to the end are repealed,

14.3.b

in subsection (3), “or remand centre” is repealed,

14.3.c

in the section title, “or remand centre” is repealed.

14.4

In section 37 (discontinuance of prison), in subsection (2), “remand centre
or” is repealed.

14.5

In section 39 (rules for the management of prisons and other institutions), in
subsection (1), “, remand centres” is repealed.

14.6

In section 40 (arrest of and rules for absent prisoners)—

14.6.a

in subsection (1), “or remand centre” is repealed,

14.6.b

in subsection (2), “or remand centre” in each place is repealed.

###### Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995

15

15.1

The Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995 is amended as follows.

15.2

In section 49C (offence of having offensive weapon etc. in prison), in
subsection (7), paragraph (b) is repealed.

###### Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995

16

16.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

16.2

In section 51 (remand and committal of children and young persons), subsection
(2A) is repealed.

16.3

In section 144 (procedure at first diet), in subsection (6), “, remand centre”
is repealed.

16.4

In section 285 (previous convictions: proof, general), in subsection (4), “or
of a remand centre” is repealed.

16.5

In section 307 (interpretation), in subsection (1), in the definition of
“place of safety”, “, prison or remand centre,” is repealed.

###### Prisoners’ Earnings Act 1996

17

17.1

The Prisoners’ Earnings Act 1996 is amended as follows.

17.2

In section 4 (interpretation), in subsection (3), in the definition of
“prisoner”, “or remand centre” is repealed.

###### Housing (Scotland) Act 2006

18

18.1

The Housing (Scotland) Act 2006 is amended as follows.

18.2

In section 126 (HMOs exempt from licensing requirement), in subsection (1), in
paragraph (d), for “, a young offenders institution or a remand centre”
substitute  “or a young offenders institution” .

###### Protection of Vulnerable Groups (Scotland) Act 2007

19

19.1

The Protection of Vulnerable Groups (Scotland) Act 2007 is amended as follows.

19.2

In schedule 2 (as substituted by section 74(3) and schedule 3 of the
Disclosure (Scotland) Act 2020), paragraph 31, in the definition of  “prison”
, for “, young offenders institution or remand centre” substitute  “or young
offenders institution” .

19.3

In schedule 3 (as substituted by section 74(4) and schedule 4 of the
Disclosure (Scotland) Act 2020), in paragraph 24, in the definition of
“prison” , for “, young offenders institution or remand centre” substitute
“or young offenders institution” .

###### Community Justice (Scotland) Act 2016

20

20.1

The Community Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 is amended as follows.

20.2

In section 37 (interpretation), in subsection (1), in the definition of “penal
institution”, paragraph (b) is repealed.

###### Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016

21

21.1

The Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016
is amended as follows.

21.2

In section 2 (mandatory inquiries), in subsection (7), in the definition of
“penal institution”, paragraph (b) is repealed.

##### Local authority duties in relation to detained children

###### Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968

22

22.1

The Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 is amended as follows.

22.2

In section 5 (powers of Scottish Ministers), in subsection (1B)(f), for
“section 51” substitute  “sections 44, 51 and 216” .

###### Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010

23

23.1

The 2010 Act is amended as follows.

23.2

In schedule 13 (social work services functions: specified enactments),
“Section 51 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act  1995 (c. 46) ” is
repealed.

##### Secure accommodation

###### Representation of the People Act 1983

24

24.1

The Representation of the People Act 1983 is amended as follows.

24.2

In section 7B (notional residence: declarations of local connection), in
subsection (2C)(b), for the definition of “secure accommodation” substitute—

      “ secure accommodation ” has the meaning given by paragraph (a) of the
definition of “secure accommodation” in section 202(1) of the Children’s
Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011.

.

###### Protection of Vulnerable Groups (Scotland) Act 2007

25

25.1

The Protection of Vulnerable Groups (Scotland) Act 2007 is amended as follows.

25.2

In schedule 2 (as substituted by section 74(3) and schedule 3 of the
Disclosure (Scotland) Act 2020)—

25.2.a

in each of the following paragraphs, “for children” is repealed—

25.2.a.i

paragraph 3(1), in paragraph (c)(i) of the definition of “responsible person”,

25.2.a.ii

paragraph 20, in the second place where it occurs,

25.2.a.iii

paragraph 21,

25.2.b

in paragraph 31, for the definition of “secure accommodation for children”
substitute—

      “ secure accommodation ” has the meaning given in paragraph (a) of the
definition of “secure accommodation” in section 202(1) of the Children’s
Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011.

.

###### Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016

26

26.1

The Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016
is amended as follows.

26.2

In section 2 (mandatory inquiries), in subsection (7), for the definition of
“secure accommodation” substitute—

      “ secure accommodation ” has the meaning given by paragraph (a) of the
definition of “secure accommodation” in section 202(1) of the Children’s
Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011,

.

###### Cross-border Placements (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

27

27.1

The Cross-border Placements (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders)
(Scotland) Regulations 2022 ( S.S.I. 2022/225 ) are amended as follows.

27.2

In each of the following paragraphs of regulation 13 (application and
modifications of the Act), for “Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011
(Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders)” substitute  “Cross-border
Placements (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders) (Scotland)” —

27.2.a

paragraph (3)(b),

27.2.b

paragraph (4),

27.2.c

paragraph (12)—

27.2.c.i

sub-paragraph (a), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “implementation
authority”,

27.2.c.ii

sub-paragraph (c), in the definition of “receiving local authority”.

##### Named person and child’s plan

###### Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015

28

28.1

The Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015 is amended as
follows.

28.2

In section 12 (presumption of age), in subsection (3), paragraphs (d) and (e)
are repealed.

###### Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016

29

29.1

The 2016 Act is amended as follows.

29.2

Sections 107 and 108 are repealed.

###### Public Bodies (Joint Working) (Prescribed Health Board Functions) (Scotland) Regulations 2014

30

30.1

The Public Bodies (Joint Working) (Prescribed Health Board Functions)
(Scotland) Regulations 2014 ( S.S.I. 2014/344 ) are amended as follows.

30.2

In schedule 1 (functions prescribed for the purposes of section 1(6) of the
Public Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014), the entry relating to the
Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014 (inserted by the Public Bodies
(Joint Working) (Prescribed Health Board Functions) (Scotland) Amendment
Regulations 2016 ( S.S.I. 2016/15 )) is revoked.

###### Public Bodies (Joint Working) (Prescribed Health Board Functions) (Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2016

31

The Public Bodies (Joint Working) (Prescribed Health Board Functions)
(Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2016 ( S.S.I. 201615 ) are revoked.

