Title: Circular Economy (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-09-03
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/13

## Circular Economy (Scotland) Act 2024

### Circular economy strategy

#### Circular economy strategy

1

1.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare a circular economy strategy.

1.2

The circular economy strategy—

1.2.a

must set out the Scottish Ministers’ objectives relating to developing a
circular economy,

1.2.b

must set out the Scottish Ministers’ plans for meeting those objectives
(including priorities for action),

1.2.c

must set out arrangements for monitoring progress towards meeting the
objectives,

1.2.d

may set out any other matters relating to developing a circular economy that
the Scottish Ministers consider should be included.

1.3

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the desirability of the economy being one in which—

1.3.a

processes for the production and distribution of goods, products and materials
are designed so as to reduce their consumption and their whole life-cycle
carbon emissions,

1.3.b

the delivery of services is designed so as to reduce the consumption and whole
life-cycle carbon emissions of goods, products and materials,

1.3.c

goods, products and materials are kept in use for as long as possible to
reduce their consumption, their whole life-cycle carbon emissions and their
impacts on the environment,

1.3.d

the maximum value is extracted from goods, products and materials by the
persons using them,

1.3.e

goods, products and materials are recovered or, where appropriate, regenerated
at the end of their useful life,

1.3.f

waste is managed in Scotland if it is appropriate to do so,

1.3.g

due diligence in relation to environmental protection and human rights is
exercised in supply chains.

1.4

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the following waste hierarchy—

1.4.a

waste prevention,

1.4.b

preparing for re-use,

1.4.c

recycling,

1.4.d

other recovery, including energy recovery,

1.4.e

disposal.

1.5

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the just transition principles set out in section 35C of the Climate
Change (Scotland) Act 2009.

1.6

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the desirability of encouraging the kinds of behavioural changes,
and public education and skills, which would be required to meet the
objectives set out in the strategy.

1.7

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the circular economy targets imposed by regulations made under
section 6.

1.8

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the role that re-use, refill and take-back schemes have in
contributing to the development of a circular economy.

1.9

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the importance of consumer and workplace safety.

1.10

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to the potential international impacts of their circular economy
policies.

1.11

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must have
regard to—

1.11.a

encouraging equal opportunities (within the meaning of Section L2 of Part 2 of
schedule 5 of the Scotland Act 1998), and

1.11.b

furthering the reduction of inequalities of outcome which result from socio-
economic disadvantage.

1.12

In considering priorities for action under subsection (2)(b), the Scottish
Ministers must have particular regard to sectors and systems most likely to
contribute to developing a circular economy, with reference to the following
criteria for identifying those sectors and systems—

1.12.a

achieving the net-zero emissions target set out in section A1 of the Climate
Change (Scotland) Act 2009,

1.12.b

reducing the consumption and whole life-cycle carbon emissions of goods,
products and materials,

1.12.c

maximising the value of the circular economy in Scotland,

1.12.d

considering the wider environmental impact of particular sectors and systems.

1.13

The circular economy strategy must be prepared with a view to achieving
consistency, so far as practicable, between the objectives and plans set out
in the strategy and—

1.13.a

the climate change plan prepared under section 35 of the Climate Change
(Scotland) Act 2009,

1.13.b

the environmental policy strategy prepared under section 47 of the UK
Withdrawal from the European Union (Continuity) (Scotland) Act 2021, and

1.13.c

any other strategy or plan which the Scottish Ministers consider to be
relevant.

1.14

The Scottish Ministers must have regard to the circular economy strategy in
making policies (including proposals for legislation).

1.15

In  subsection (14) , making policies includes developing, adopting and
revising policies.

#### Consultation on strategy

2

In preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish Ministers must
publish a draft strategy and consult—

2.a

such persons as they consider may have an interest in the strategy, including
public sector, private sector, charitable and international organisations,

2.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate, and

2.c

the general public.

#### Publication and laying of strategy

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers must—

3.1.a

publish the circular economy strategy in such manner as they consider
appropriate, and

3.1.b

lay a copy of the strategy before the Scottish Parliament.

3.2

Subsection (1) must be complied with before the end of the period of 2 years
beginning with the day on which this section comes into force.

3.3

As soon as practicable after complying with subsection (1), the Scottish
Ministers must—

3.3.a

publish a report setting out—

3.3.a.i

the consultation process undertaken in order to comply with  section 2 , and

3.3.a.ii

the ways in which, in preparing the circular economy strategy, the Scottish
Ministers have taken account of views expressed in the course of that process,
and

3.3.b

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament.

#### Review of strategy

4

4.1

The Scottish Ministers—

4.1.a

must keep the circular economy strategy under review, and

4.1.b

may revise it as they consider appropriate.

4.2

If the Scottish Ministers have not revised and republished the circular
economy strategy within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which
the circular economy strategy was last published, they must revise the
strategy.

4.3

Sections 1(2) to (13), 2 and 3(1) and (3) apply in relation to revising the
circular economy strategy as they apply in relation to preparing the first
circular economy strategy.

#### Reporting on strategy

5

5.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as practicable after the end of each
reporting period, prepare a report setting out—

5.1.a

progress made in the reporting period in respect of the objectives and plans
included in the circular economy strategy,

5.1.b

where any objectives have not been met, the measures the Scottish Ministers
propose to meet those objectives,

5.1.c

steps taken in the reporting period to keep the circular economy strategy
under review.

5.2

The Scottish Ministers must—

5.2.a

publish the report in such manner as they consider appropriate, and

5.2.b

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament.

5.3

In this section, “ reporting period ” means the period of 30 months beginning
with the day on which the circular economy strategy was last published.

### Circular economy targets

#### Circular economy targets

6

6.1

The Scottish Ministers must by regulations make provision imposing targets on
the Scottish Ministers relating to developing a circular economy.

6.2

In considering the imposition of targets under subsection (1), the Scottish
Ministers must have regard to the desirability of the economy being one in
which—

6.2.a

processes for the production and distribution of goods, products and materials
are designed so as to reduce their consumption and their whole life-cycle
carbon emissions,

6.2.b

the delivery of services is designed so as to reduce the consumption and whole
life-cycle carbon emissions of goods, products and materials,

6.2.c

goods, products and materials are kept in use for as long as possible to
reduce their consumption, their whole life-cycle carbon emissions and their
impacts on the environment,

6.2.d

the maximum value is extracted from goods, products and materials by the
persons using them,

6.2.e

goods, products and materials are recovered or, where appropriate, regenerated
at the end of their useful life,

6.2.f

waste is managed in Scotland if it is appropriate to do so,

6.2.g

due diligence in relation to environmental protection and human rights is
exercised in supply chains.

6.3

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular—

6.3.a

provide for targets in relation to one or more of the following—

6.3.a.i

reducing carbon emissions associated with the consumption of materials,

6.3.a.ii

increasing re-use,

6.3.a.iii

increasing refurbishment,

6.3.a.iv

increasing repair,

6.3.a.v

increasing recycling,

6.3.a.vi

reducing waste,

6.3.b

prioritise sectors and systems most likely to contribute to developing a
circular economy, with reference to the criteria for identifying those sectors
and systems set out in  section 1 (12) ,

6.3.c

provide for targets to be reviewed.

6.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure
(but see  section 8  in relation to the first regulations).

6.5

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

6.5.a

such persons as they consider may have an interest in the targets, including
public sector, private sector, charitable and international organisations,

6.5.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate, and

6.5.c

the general public.

6.6

Regulations under subsection (1) may—

6.6.a

make different provision for different purposes or areas,

6.6.b

make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

#### Circular economy targets: monitoring and reporting

7

7.1

Regulations under  section 6 (1)  must set out arrangements for—

7.1.a

monitoring progress towards achieving targets, and

7.1.b

reporting on progress towards achieving targets.

7.2

Provision under subsection (1)(b) must require that each report sets out—

7.2.a

progress the Scottish Ministers have made towards achieving targets in the
period covered by the report, and

7.2.b

any action the Scottish Ministers are taking to achieve targets.

7.3

Provision under subsection (1)(b) must require that—

7.3.a

the report is published in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate, and

7.3.b

a copy of the report is laid before the Scottish Parliament.

#### Circular economy targets: pre-laying procedure for first regulations

8

8.1

This section applies where the Scottish Ministers propose to lay before the
Scottish Parliament a draft of a statutory instrument containing the first
regulations under section 6(1).

8.2

The Scottish Ministers must, before doing so, lay before the Parliament—

8.2.a

a copy of the proposed regulations, and

8.2.b

a statement setting out their reasons for proposing to make those regulations.

8.3

The Scottish Ministers must, when laying such a copy, specify a period (the
“representation period”) during which representations on the proposed
regulations may be made to them.

8.4

The representation period must be at least 90 days, of which no fewer than 30
must be days on which the Parliament is not dissolved or in recess.

8.5

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after laying a
copy of the proposed regulations, publicise them in such manner as they
consider appropriate.

8.6

The Scottish Ministers must, before laying the proposed regulations before the
Parliament, have regard to—

8.6.a

any representations on the proposed regulations made to them,

8.6.b

any resolution relating to those regulations passed by the Parliament, and

8.6.c

any report relating to those regulations published by any committee of the
Parliament for the time being appointed by virtue of standing orders,

before the expiry of the representation period.

8.7

The Scottish Ministers must, when laying such proposed regulations, lay a
statement setting out—

8.7.a

details of any representations, resolutions or reports mentioned in subsection
(6), and

8.7.b

the changes (if any) they have made to the proposed regulations in response to
such representations, resolutions or reports and the reasons for those
changes.

8.8

In this section, “ proposed regulations ” means a draft of a statutory
instrument to which subsection (1) applies.

### Restrictions on the disposal of unsold consumer goods

#### Restrictions on the disposal of unsold consumer goods

9

9.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

9.2

After section 78 insert—

########## Restrictions on the disposal of unsold consumer goods

########### Restrictions on the disposal of unsold consumer goods

9.2.78A

9.2.78A.1

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, make provision prohibiting or
restricting the disposal of unsold consumer goods if they consider it
appropriate to do so for the purpose of reducing waste.

9.2.78A.2

In subsection (1), “ consumer goods ” means goods intended to be purchased,
used or consumed by a consumer.

9.2.78A.3

But “ consumer goods ” does not include food (within the meaning of Regulation
(EC) No. 178/2002 ).

9.2.78A.4

Consumer goods are “unsold” if they have not been sold to, or have been
returned by, a consumer.

9.2.78A.5

In this section, “ consumer ” means—

9.2.78A.5.a

an individual—

9.2.78A.5.a.i

who purchases, uses or receives goods or services which are supplied in the
course of a business carried on by the person supplying them, and

9.2.78A.5.a.ii

who is not purchasing, using or receiving the goods or services wholly or
mainly in the course of a business carried on by the individual, or

9.2.78A.5.b

a business (including a business carried on by an individual) which purchases,
uses or receives goods or services which are supplied in the course of a
business carried on by the person supplying them.

9.2.78A.6

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular—

9.2.78A.6.a

specify the particular types of unsold consumer goods to which the
prohibitions or restrictions apply,

9.2.78A.6.b

include provision about the persons to whom the prohibitions or restrictions
apply,

9.2.78A.6.c

include provision about the meaning of “ disposal ” for the purposes of the
regulations,

9.2.78A.6.d

include further provision about the meaning of “ unsold ” for the purposes of
the regulations,

9.2.78A.6.e

include provision to prioritise the re-use, rather than recycling of unsold
goods, in line with the waste hierarchy,

9.2.78A.6.f

provide for exemptions from the prohibitions or restrictions,

9.2.78A.6.g

subject to section 89, include provision about—

9.2.78A.6.g.i

the enforcement authority in relation to the regulations, and

9.2.78A.6.g.ii

the functions of that authority,

9.2.78A.6.h

include other provision about enforcement of the regulations.

9.2.78A.7

Provision about enforcement under subsection (6)(h) may in particular include
provision—

9.2.78A.7.a

enabling functions of the enforcement authority to be carried out on its
behalf by persons authorised in accordance with the regulations,

9.2.78A.7.b

about the keeping of records and their production to the enforcement
authority,

9.2.78A.7.c

about offences in relation to failures to comply with requirements in the
regulations,

9.2.78A.7.d

for the giving of notices by or on behalf of the enforcement authority
offering a person the opportunity of discharging any liability to conviction
for an offence under the regulations by payment of a fixed penalty.

9.2.78A.8

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

9.2.78A.9

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after
regulations under subsection (1) are made, publish guidance for the
enforcement authority in relation to the functions conferred on it by the
regulations.

9.2.78A.10

The enforcement authority must have regard to any guidance published under
subsection (9).

.

### Charges for single-use items

#### Power to require imposition of charges for single-use items

10

10.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

10.2

In section 83(4), for “In this section and in section 84,” substitute  “For
the purpose of this section and any regulations made under it,” .

10.3

In section 84, after subsection (7) insert—

10.3.8

For the purpose of this section and any regulations made under it, “ packaging
” has the meaning given by Article 3 of  Directive 94/62/EC  of the European
Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste.

.

10.4

After section 87 insert—

########## Chargeable items

########### Charges for supply of single-use items

10.4.87A

10.4.87A.1

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, require suppliers of goods—

10.4.87A.1.a

to charge for items specified in the regulations,

10.4.87A.1.b

to apply the net proceeds raised by such charges to the advancement of
environmental protection or improvement or to any other purposes that may be
reasonably regarded as analogous.

10.4.87A.2

The regulations may in particular include provision about—

10.4.87A.2.a

the circumstances in which the requirement applies,

10.4.87A.2.b

the suppliers to whom the requirement applies,

10.4.87A.2.c

the minimum amount to be charged for an item specified in the regulations,

10.4.87A.2.d

how the net proceeds raised by the charge are to be ascertained,

10.4.87A.2.e

the particular purposes to which those net proceeds are to be applied,

10.4.87A.2.f

subject to section 89—

10.4.87A.2.f.i

the enforcement authority in relation to the regulations, and

10.4.87A.2.f.ii

the functions of that authority,

10.4.87A.2.g

the keeping of records and their production to the enforcement authority,

10.4.87A.2.h

the enforcement of the requirements imposed by the regulations,

10.4.87A.2.i

offences in relation to failures to comply with the requirements imposed by
the regulations.

10.4.87A.3

The regulations may only specify items which are—

10.4.87A.3.a

manufactured,

10.4.87A.3.b

provided—

10.4.87A.3.b.i

as a container or packaging for goods, or

10.4.87A.3.b.ii

to be used in connection with the consumption or use of goods, and

10.4.87A.3.c

likely to be used for that purpose only—

10.4.87A.3.c.i

once, or

10.4.87A.3.c.ii

for a short period.

10.4.87A.4

The enforcement authority must have regard to any guidance given by the
Scottish Ministers to it in relation to the functions conferred on it by the
regulations.

.

10.5

The italic heading immediately preceding section 88 is omitted.

10.6

The italic heading immediately preceding section 88A is omitted.

10.7

In section 88A—

10.7.a

in subsection (2), after “section” insert  “87A or” ,

10.7.b

the title of the section becomes  “Offences relating to supply of chargeable
items: fixed penalty notices” .

10.8

In section 97(1)—

10.8.a

the word “or” immediately following paragraph (a) is repealed,

10.8.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

10.8.b.c

regulations under section 87A which specify (or modify the description of)
items that suppliers of goods are required to charge for.

.

10.9

In section 98, the definition of “packaging” is repealed.

### Fly-tipping offences and removal of waste

#### Fixed penalty notices for fly-tipping offences

11

11.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

11.2

In section 33A, in subsection (10)—

11.2.a

the words from “substitute” to the end become paragraph (a),

11.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “level 2” substitute  “level 3” ,

11.2.c

after paragraph (a) insert—

11.2.c.b

substitute different amounts (not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale) in
relation to different cases or descriptions of case.

.

#### Removal of unlawfully deposited waste

12

12.1

In section 59 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990—

12.1.a

after subsection (1) insert—

12.1.a.1A

A waste regulation authority or waste collection authority may only impose a
requirement under subsection (1) on an occupier of land if the authority is
satisfied that the occupier—

12.1.a.1A.a

deposited the waste, or

12.1.a.1A.b

knowingly caused or knowingly permitted the deposit of the waste.

,

12.1.b

in subsection (2), for “the sheriff by way of summary application” substitute
“the Scottish Ministers” ,

12.1.c

in subsection (3)—

12.1.c.i

after “court” insert  “or the Scottish Ministers (as the case may be)” ,

12.1.c.ii

after “is” insert  “or they are” ,

12.1.d

in subsection (4)—

12.1.d.i

after “court” insert  “or the Scottish Ministers (as the case may be)” ,

12.1.d.ii

after “it” insert  “or they” ,

12.1.e

after subsection (9) insert—

12.1.e.10

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make further provision about appeals
to them under subsection (2), including—

12.1.e.10.a

provision about the manner in which appeals are to be brought,

12.1.e.10.b

provision about the manner in which appeals are to be considered,

12.1.e.10.c

transitional, transitory or saving provision.

12.1.e.11

The Scottish Ministers may issue guidance for waste regulation authorities and
waste collection authorities on the operation of this section.

12.1.e.12

Waste regulation authorities and waste collection authorities must have regard
to any guidance issued under subsection (11).

12.1.e.13

This section is subject to section 114 of the Environment Act 1995 (delegating
or referring of appeals etc).

.

12.2

In section 114(2) of the Environment Act 1995, in paragraph (a)(iii), after
“22(5),” insert  “59(2),” .

### Information on fly-tipping offences

#### Information on fly-tipping offences

13

13.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

13.2

After section 71 insert—

########## Information from authorities on unauthorised or harmful deposit, treatment or disposal etc. of waste: Scotland

13.2.71A

13.2.71A.1

The Scottish Ministers may require a relevant authority to provide them with
such information as Ministers may specify about—

13.2.71A.1.a

cases where the authority has exercised any of its functions under section 59,
and

13.2.71A.1.b

cases where the authority has exercised any of its functions in respect of any
contravention of section 33(1)(a) or (c).

13.2.71A.2

In requiring information under subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers may
specify—

13.2.71A.2.a

the period to which the information is to relate, and

13.2.71A.2.b

the date by which the relevant authority is to provide the information.

13.2.71A.3

The information required by Ministers under subsection (1) may include, in
particular—

13.2.71A.3.a

the number of contraventions of section 33(1)(a) or (c) reported to the
relevant authority,

13.2.71A.3.b

the location of contraventions of section 33(1)(a) or (c) reported to the
authority,

13.2.71A.3.c

what action (if any) has been taken by the authority in response to the
reported contraventions,

13.2.71A.3.d

the number of fixed penalty notices issued by the authority under section 33A
in response to the reported contraventions,

13.2.71A.3.e

the number of fixed penalties paid in response to such notices, and

13.2.71A.3.f

the number of reports made by the authority of offences under section 33(1)(a)
or (c).

13.2.71A.4

The Scottish Ministers may not exercise their power under subsection (1) in
relation to a particular relevant authority more than once in any period of 12
months.

13.2.71A.5

In this section, “ relevant authority ” means—

13.2.71A.5.a

in relation to functions under section 59, a waste collection authority,

13.2.71A.5.b

in relation to functions in respect of contraventions of section 33(1)(a) or
(c)—

13.2.71A.5.b.i

a local authority,

13.2.71A.5.b.ii

Loch Lomond and The Trossachs National Park Authority, or

13.2.71A.5.b.iii

a person specified by order made by the Scottish Ministers under section
33A(13).

.

### Household waste

#### Householder’s duty of care

14

14.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

14.2

In section 34—

14.2.a

in subsection (1), for “subsection (2)” substitute  “subsections (1A) and (2)”
,

14.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

14.2.b.1A

The duty imposed by subsection (1) does not apply to an occupier of domestic
property as respects the household waste produced on the property.

,

14.2.c

for subsection (2) substitute—

14.2.c.2

An occupier of domestic property must, as respects the household waste
produced on the property, take reasonable steps to secure that any transfer of
waste is only to an authorised person or to a person for authorised transport
purposes.

,

14.2.d

in subsection (6), after “(1),” insert  “(2),” ,

14.2.e

in subsection (7), after “(1),” insert  “(2),” .

14.3

After section 34ZB insert—

########## Fixed penalty notices for offences under section 34(6): Scotland

14.3.34ZC

14.3.34ZC.1

This section applies where a constable or an authorised officer has reason to
believe that a person has failed without reasonable excuse to comply with the
duty relating to the transfer of household waste in section 34(2).

14.3.34ZC.2

The constable or authorised officer (as the case may be) may give to the
person a notice offering the opportunity of discharging any liability to
conviction for an offence under section 34(6) by payment of a fixed penalty.

14.3.34ZC.3

A notice under subsection (2) may not be given if, in relation to the same
circumstances—

14.3.34ZC.3.a

such a notice has already been given to the person (including by the same or
by another local authority), or

14.3.34ZC.3.b

a penalty or enforcement undertaking has already been imposed on the person by
the Scottish Environment Protection Agency by virtue of Part 2 of the
Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014.

14.3.34ZC.4

Where a constable gives a notice to a person under subsection (2), the
constable must at the same time give a copy of the notice to the local
authority in whose area the failure to comply with the duty in section 34(2)
took place.

14.3.34ZC.5

Where—

14.3.34ZC.5.a

an authorised officer gives a notice to a person under subsection (2), and

14.3.34ZC.5.b

it appears to the officer that the failure to comply with the duty in section
34(2) took place both in the officer’s area and in another local authority’s
area,

the officer must at the same time give the other local authority a copy of the
notice.

14.3.34ZC.6

Where a person is given a notice under subsection (2) in respect of an
offence—

14.3.34ZC.6.a

no proceedings may be instituted for that offence before the end of the period
of 14 days beginning with the date of the notice, and

14.3.34ZC.6.b

the person may not be convicted of the offence if the fixed penalty is paid
before the end of that period.

14.3.34ZC.7

A notice under this section must—

14.3.34ZC.7.a

state the particulars of the circumstances alleged to constitute the offence
as are necessary for giving reasonable information of the offence,

14.3.34ZC.7.b

state the period during which, by virtue of subsection (6)(a), proceedings
will not be instituted for the offence under section 34(6),

14.3.34ZC.7.c

state the amount of the fixed penalty,

14.3.34ZC.7.d

explain that the notice contains an offer to discharge liability to conviction
for the offence by payment of a fixed penalty and that the person is not
required to accept that offer,

14.3.34ZC.7.e

state the person to whom the fixed penalty may be paid, and the address and
website for doing so,

14.3.34ZC.7.f

explain that, by virtue of subsection (3), an authorised officer may not give
a person a notice under this section if such a notice has already been given
to the person in respect of the same offence, and

14.3.34ZC.7.g

state which other authorities have been sent a copy of the notice in
accordance with subsections (4) and (5).

14.3.34ZC.8

The fixed penalty payable under this section is £200.

14.3.34ZC.9

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations substitute a different amount (not
exceeding level 2 on the standard scale) for the amount for the time being
specified as the amount of the fixed penalty in subsection (8).

14.3.34ZC.10

A constable or an authorised officer may require an occupier of domestic
property to give the occupier’s name, address and date of birth, if the
constable or officer proposes to give the occupier a fixed penalty notice
under this section.

14.3.34ZC.11

A person commits an offence if the person—

14.3.34ZC.11.a

fails to give a name, address or date of birth when required to do so under
subsection (10), or

14.3.34ZC.11.b

gives a false or inaccurate name, address or date of birth in response to a
requirement under that subsection.

14.3.34ZC.12

A person who commits an offence under subsection (11) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

14.3.34ZC.13

In any proceedings a certificate which—

14.3.34ZC.13.a

purports to be signed on the person having responsibility for the financial
affairs of the authority to which the fixed penalty is to be paid, and

14.3.34ZC.13.b

states that payment of a fixed penalty was or was not received by a date
specified in the certificate,

is evidence of the facts stated.

14.3.34ZC.14

A fixed penalty payable in pursuance of a notice under this section is to be
paid—

14.3.34ZC.14.a

in a case where the notice is given by a constable or by an authorised officer
of a local authority, to the local authority in whose area the offence was
committed,

14.3.34ZC.14.b

in a case where the notice is given by an officer of Loch Lomond and The
Trossachs National Park Authority, to that Authority.

14.3.34ZC.15

In this section—

      “ authorised officer ” means—         an officer of a local authority
who is authorised in writing by the authority for the purpose of issuing
notices under this section in relation to an offence under section 34(6)
committed in the area of the authority,           an officer of Loch Lomond
and The Trossachs National Park Authority who is authorised in writing by the
Authority for the purpose of issuing notices under this section in relation to
an offence under section 34(6) committed in the area designated as the
National Park for which the Authority is established,                 “ local
authority ” means a council constituted under section 2 of the Local
Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994.

14.3.34ZC.16

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

14.3.34ZC.16.a

add another category of persons to the definition of “authorised officer” in
subsection (15), and

14.3.34ZC.16.b

modify this section as they consider appropriate in connection with making
provision under paragraph (a).

.

#### Household waste requirements

15

15.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

15.2

Before section 46A insert—

########## Enforcement of household waste requirements: Scotland

15.2.46ZA

15.2.46ZA.1

An authorised officer of a waste collection authority may give a written
warning to a person if satisfied on the balance of probabilities that—

15.2.46ZA.1.a

the person has failed without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement
imposed by the authority under section 46(1), (3)(c) or (d) or (4) (a “section
46 requirement”), and

15.2.46ZA.1.b

the person's failure to comply—

15.2.46ZA.1.b.i

has caused, or is or was likely to cause, a nuisance, or

15.2.46ZA.1.b.ii

has been, or is or was likely to be, detrimental to any amenities of the
locality.

15.2.46ZA.2

A written warning under subsection (1)—

15.2.46ZA.2.a

must—

15.2.46ZA.2.a.i

identify the section 46 requirement with which the person has failed to
comply,

15.2.46ZA.2.a.ii

explain the nature of the failure to comply,

15.2.46ZA.2.a.iii

explain how the failure to comply has had, or is or was likely to have, the
effect described in subsection (1)(b),

15.2.46ZA.2.a.iv

if the failure to comply is continuing, specify the period within which the
requirement must be complied with and explain the consequences of the
requirement not being complied with within that period, and

15.2.46ZA.2.a.v

whether or not the failure to comply is continuing, explain the consequences
of the person subsequently failing to comply with the same or a similar
section 46 requirement, and

15.2.46ZA.2.b

may contain such other provision as the waste collection authority considers
appropriate.

15.2.46ZA.3

An authorised officer of a waste collection authority may require a person to
whom a written warning under subsection (1) has been given to pay a civil
penalty charge to the authority, if satisfied on the balance of probabilities
that the person continued to fail to comply with the section 46 requirement
identified in the warning after the end of the period for compliance specified
in the warning.

15.2.46ZA.4

An authorised officer of a waste collection authority may require a person who
has already been required to pay a civil penalty charge under subsection (3)
to pay a further civil penalty charge to the authority, if satisfied on the
balance of probabilities that the person’s original failure to comply still
continues during the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the
written warning was given.

15.2.46ZA.5

But a further civil penalty charge may not be required under subsection (4)
where there is an appeal pending against the decision to require a charge
under subsection (3).

15.2.46ZA.6

An authorised officer of a waste collection authority may require a person to
whom a written warning under subsection (1) has been given to pay a civil
penalty charge to the authority, if satisfied on the balance of probabilities
that, before the end of the period of 12 months beginning with the day on
which the warning was given—

15.2.46ZA.6.a

the person—

15.2.46ZA.6.a.i

has again failed without reasonable excuse to comply with the section 46
requirement identified in the warning, or

15.2.46ZA.6.a.ii

has failed without reasonable excuse to comply with a section 46 requirement
that is similar to the one identified in the warning, and

15.2.46ZA.6.b

the person's failure to comply—

15.2.46ZA.6.b.i

has caused, or is or was likely to cause, a nuisance, or

15.2.46ZA.6.b.ii

has been, or is or was likely to be, detrimental to any amenities of the
locality.

15.2.46ZA.7

An authorised officer may require a person to pay a civil penalty charge under
subsection (4) or (6) each time that the authorised officer is satisfied on
the balance of probabilities of the matters mentioned in the subsection.

15.2.46ZA.8

An authorised officer may not give a person a written warning under subsection
(1) where, in relation to the same circumstances—

15.2.46ZA.8.a

the person has already been given a notice under section 46ZD(2), or

15.2.46ZA.8.b

proceedings have already been instituted against the person for an alleged
offence under section 46(6).

15.2.46ZA.9

An authorised officer imposing a requirement to pay a civil penalty charge
under subsection (3), (4) or (6) must act in accordance with section 46ZB.

15.2.46ZA.10

A civil penalty charge under this section is recoverable in like manner as an
extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution issued by
the sheriff for any sheriffdom.

15.2.46ZA.11

In this section and sections 46ZB to 46ZD—

      an “ authorised officer ” means an employee of a waste collection
authority who is authorised in writing by the authority for the purpose of
giving written warnings and requiring payment of civil penalty charges under
this section,           a “ civil penalty charge ” means a monetary penalty of
an amount specified in regulations under section 46ZC.

########## Civil penalty charges under section 46ZA: prior notices of intent and final notices

15.2.46ZB

15.2.46ZB.1

Before requiring a person to pay a civil penalty charge under section 46ZA, an
authorised officer must serve on the person notice of intention to do so (a
“notice of intent”).

15.2.46ZB.2

A notice of intent must contain information about—

15.2.46ZB.2.a

the grounds for requiring payment of a civil penalty charge,

15.2.46ZB.2.b

the amount of the civil penalty charge, and

15.2.46ZB.2.c

the person’s entitlement to make representations under subsection (3).

15.2.46ZB.3

A person on whom a notice of intent is served may, within a period specified
in regulations under section 46ZC, make representations to the authorised
officer as to why payment of a civil penalty charge should not be required.

15.2.46ZB.4

In order to require a person to pay a civil penalty charge under section 46ZA,
an authorised officer must serve on the person a further notice (the “final
notice”) in accordance with subsections (5) to (7).

15.2.46ZB.5

A final notice may not be served on a person by an authorised officer before
the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day service of the notice
of intent on the person was effected.

15.2.46ZB.6

Before serving a final notice on a person, an authorised officer must consider
any representations made by the person under subsection (3).

15.2.46ZB.7

A final notice must contain information about—

15.2.46ZB.7.a

the grounds for requiring payment of a civil penalty charge,

15.2.46ZB.7.b

the amount of the civil penalty charge,

15.2.46ZB.7.c

how payment may be made,

15.2.46ZB.7.d

the period within which payment is required to be made,

15.2.46ZB.7.e

the right to appeal by virtue of section 46ZC(1)(i), and

15.2.46ZB.7.f

the consequences of not paying the civil penalty charge.

########## Civil penalty charges under section 46ZA: procedure and amount

15.2.46ZC

15.2.46ZC.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about—

15.2.46ZC.1.a

the amount of the civil penalty charge that a person may be required to pay to
a waste collection authority under section 46ZA,

15.2.46ZC.1.b

discounts and surcharges relating to civil penalty charges under section 46ZA,

15.2.46ZC.1.c

the procedure to be followed by an authorised officer in requiring payment of
a civil penalty charge under section 46ZA,

15.2.46ZC.1.d

the form and content of—

15.2.46ZC.1.d.i

a notice of a civil penalty charge under section 46ZA,

15.2.46ZC.1.d.ii

a notice of intent and a final notice under section 46ZB,

15.2.46ZC.1.e

the period within which representations in response to a notice of intent
under section 46ZB may be given, and the form in which they may be given,

15.2.46ZC.1.f

the matters to be considered by the authority in relation to such
representations,

15.2.46ZC.1.g

the period for payment of a civil penalty charge under section 46ZA(3), (4)
and (6),

15.2.46ZC.1.h

the circumstances in which the requirement of a civil penalty charge under
section 46ZA may be withdrawn by a waste collection authority,

15.2.46ZC.1.i

the appeal procedure in relation to the requirement of a civil penalty charge
under section 46ZA.

15.2.46ZC.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may—

15.2.46ZC.2.a

make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision,

15.2.46ZC.2.b

make different provision for different purposes or for different waste
collection authority areas.

########## Fixed penalty notices for offences under section 46

15.2.46ZD

15.2.46ZD.1

This section applies where an authorised officer of a waste collection
authority has reason to believe that a person has committed an offence under
section 46(6) requirement in the area of that authority.

15.2.46ZD.2

The authorised officer may give the person a notice offering the person the
opportunity of discharging any liability to conviction for the offence by
payment of a fixed penalty to the waste collection authority.

15.2.46ZD.3

Where a person is given a notice under subsection (2) in respect of an
offence—

15.2.46ZD.3.a

no proceedings may be instituted for that offence before the end of the period
of 14 days beginning with the date of the notice, and

15.2.46ZD.3.b

the person may not be convicted of that offence if the person pays the fixed
penalty before the end of that period.

15.2.46ZD.4

Where a person has already been given a final notice under section 46ZB, and
any subsequent civil penalty charge has been paid in full—

15.2.46ZD.4.a

no notice may be given to the person under subsection (2) of this section in
relation to the same circumstances,

15.2.46ZD.4.b

no proceedings may be instituted under section 46(6) against the person in
relation to the same circumstances.

15.2.46ZD.5

A notice under subsection (2) must—

15.2.46ZD.5.a

state the particulars of the circumstances alleged to constitute the offence
as are necessary for giving reasonable information of the offence,

15.2.46ZD.5.b

state the period during which, by virtue of subsection (3), proceedings will
not be instituted for the offence,

15.2.46ZD.5.c

state the amount of the fixed penalty,

15.2.46ZD.5.d

explain that the notice contains an offer to discharge liability to conviction
for the offence by payment of a fixed penalty and the person is not required
to accept that offer, and

15.2.46ZD.5.e

state the person to whom the fixed penalty may be paid, and the address and
website for doing so.

15.2.46ZD.6

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations specify—

15.2.46ZD.6.a

the amount of the fixed penalty payable under this section (not exceeding
level 2 on the standard scale),

15.2.46ZD.6.b

the form of a notice under subsection (2).

15.2.46ZD.7

An authorised officer of a waste collection authority may require an occupier
of domestic property to give the occupier’s name, address and date of birth,
if the officer proposes to give the occupier a fixed penalty notice under this
section.

15.2.46ZD.8

A person commits an offence if the person—

15.2.46ZD.8.a

fails to give a name, address or date of birth when required to do so under
subsection (7), or

15.2.46ZD.8.b

gives a false or inaccurate name, address or date of birth in response to a
requirement under that subsection.

15.2.46ZD.9

A person who commits an offence under subsection (8) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

15.2.46ZD.10

In any proceedings a certificate which—

15.2.46ZD.10.a

purports to be signed on behalf of the person having responsibility for the
financial affairs of the waste collection authority, and

15.2.46ZD.10.b

states that payment of a fixed penalty was or was not received by a date
specified in the certificate,

is evidence of the facts stated.

########## Guidance

15.2.46ZE

15.2.46ZE.1

The Scottish Ministers must issue guidance on the operation of sections 46ZA
to 46ZD.

15.2.46ZE.2

In preparing guidance under subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers must
consult waste collection authorities.

15.2.46ZE.3

A waste collection authority, and an authorised officer of a waste collection
authority, must have regard to any guidance issued under subsection (1).

.

15.3

In section 160A, after the entry relating to section 45AA(10) insert—

      46ZC(1) (civil penalty charges under section 46ZA: procedure and amount)
any regulations under that subsection.

.

#### Code of practice on household waste recycling

16

16.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

16.2

Before section 44ZA insert—

########## Code of practice on household waste recycling

16.2.44ZZA

16.2.44ZZA.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish a code of practice setting out
the—

16.2.44ZZA.1.a

standards expected of, and

16.2.44ZZA.1.b

steps to be taken by,

local authorities in carrying out their waste management functions in so far
as they relate to the collection and recycling of household waste.

16.2.44ZZA.2

The code may make different provision for different purposes or different
local authority areas.

16.2.44ZZA.3

The code may in particular make provision about—

16.2.44ZZA.3.a

the receptacles to be used for household waste collection,

16.2.44ZZA.3.b

the frequency of household waste collection,

16.2.44ZZA.3.c

the items of household waste that are to be recycled or composted,

16.2.44ZZA.3.d

managing the contamination of household waste that is capable of being
recycled or composted,

16.2.44ZZA.3.e

communicating with the public about the collection and recycling of household
waste,

16.2.44ZZA.3.f

access to and operation of any household bulk uplift service,

16.2.44ZZA.3.g

access to and operation of any household garden waste service.

16.2.44ZZA.4

The Scottish Ministers may from time to time revise the code.

16.2.44ZZA.5

In preparing the code (whether the first version or a revised version), the
Scottish Ministers must consult publicly, and in particular solicit the views
of—

16.2.44ZZA.5.a

local authorities, and

16.2.44ZZA.5.b

the Scottish Environment Protection Agency.

16.2.44ZZA.6

The Scottish Ministers may not complete their preparation of a version of the
code until after the end of the period of 40 days beginning with the day that
a draft of that version of the code is laid before the Scottish Parliament.

16.2.44ZZA.7

In calculating the period of 40 days mentioned in  subsection (6) , no account
is to be taken of any time during which the Parliament is—

16.2.44ZZA.7.a

dissolved, or

16.2.44ZZA.7.b

in recess for more than 4 days.

16.2.44ZZA.8

In this section—

      “ local authority ” and “waste management functions” have the meanings
given in section 44ZA,           “ recycling ” includes composting and
preparing for re-use.

.

16.3

In section 44ZA(2)—

16.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “contained in” insert  “the” ,

16.3.b

the word “and” immediately following paragraph (a) is repealed,

16.3.c

after paragraph (a) insert—

16.3.c.aa

sets out how the local authority intends to carry out those functions, in so
far as they relate to the collection and recycling of household waste,
consistently with the last published code of practice under  section 44ZZA ,
and

,

16.3.d

in paragraph (b), for “those” substitute  “the authority’s waste management” .

#### Targets for local authorities relating to household waste recycling

17

17.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

17.2

After section 47A insert—

########## Targets for local authorities relating to household waste recycling

17.2.47B

17.2.47B.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision imposing targets on
local authorities in relation to their carrying out of their waste management
functions in so far as they relate to the recycling of household waste.

17.2.47B.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may not make provision imposing targets in
relation to any time before 1 April 2030.

17.2.47B.3

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular—

17.2.47B.3.a

specify targets to be achieved by local authorities,

17.2.47B.3.b

make further provision about the meaning of “ recycling ” for the purposes of
the regulations,

17.2.47B.3.c

specify indicators by reference to which a local authority’s achievement of
targets can be measured,

17.2.47B.3.e

make provision about enforcement of the requirements imposed by the
regulations,

17.2.47B.3.f

confer functions on the Scottish Environment Protection Agency in relation to
monitoring the achievement of targets,

17.2.47B.3.g

make provision requiring the keeping of records and the provision of
information by waste collection authorities.

17.2.47B.4

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers must consult
publicly, and in particular solicit the views of—

17.2.47B.4.a

local authorities, and

17.2.47B.4.b

the Scottish Environment Protection Agency.

17.2.47B.5

Regulations under subsection (1) may—

17.2.47B.5.a

make different provision for different purposes, areas or local authorities,

17.2.47B.5.b

modify any enactment (including this Act),

17.2.47B.5.c

make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

17.2.47B.6

In this section—

      “ local authority ” and “waste management functions” have the meanings
given in section 44ZA,           “ recycling ” includes composting and
preparing for re-use.

.

17.3

In section 160A, in the table in subsection (2), after the entry relating to
section 46ZC(1) (as inserted by  section 11 (3)) insert—

    section 47B(1) (targets for local authorities relating to household waste
recycling) any regulations under that subsection.

.

### Littering from vehicles: civil penalties

#### Littering from a vehicle

18

18.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

18.2

After section 88B insert—

########## Littering from a vehicle: Scottish civil penalty regime

18.2.88C

18.2.88C.1

An authorised officer of a litter authority may impose a civil penalty charge
on the keeper of a vehicle if satisfied on the balance of probabilities that—

18.2.88C.1.a

an offence of leaving litter under section 87 (“an act of littering”) has been
committed from the vehicle, and

18.2.88C.1.b

the vehicle was on land within the litter authority’s area at the time that
the act of littering was committed.

18.2.88C.2

For the purposes of this section, the keeper of a vehicle—

18.2.88C.2.a

means the person by whom the vehicle is kept at the time when an act of
littering occurs, and

18.2.88C.2.b

in the case of a registered vehicle is to be presumed, unless the contrary is
proved, to be the registered keeper.

18.2.88C.3

The keeper's liability to pay a civil penalty charge notice to the authority
arises when an authorised officer of a litter authority gives to the keeper
written notice requiring payment of the charge (“a civil penalty charge
notice”).

18.2.88C.4

No civil penalty charge notice may be given—

18.2.88C.4.a

after the end of the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the
act of littering in question occurred, or

18.2.88C.4.b

if action has been taken under section 87 or section 88 against a person in
respect of the same act of littering, regardless of—

18.2.88C.4.b.i

whether or not the person is the vehicle’s keeper,

18.2.88C.4.b.ii

whether or not the action is ongoing,

18.2.88C.4.b.iii

the outcome of the action.

18.2.88C.5

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision—

18.2.88C.5.a

for the amount that may be imposed as a civil penalty charge,

18.2.88C.5.b

for discounts and surcharges,

18.2.88C.5.c

as to the purposes for which sums received by an authority by way of civil
penalty charge may be used,

18.2.88C.5.d

about the form and content of a civil penalty charge notice,

18.2.88C.5.e

about the procedure to be followed in giving a civil penalty charge notice,

18.2.88C.5.f

conferring rights to make representations about and to bring an appeal against
a civil penalty charge notice,

18.2.88C.5.g

about the circumstances in which a civil penalty charge notice may or must be
cancelled,

18.2.88C.5.h

about the procedure to be followed in cancelling a civil penalty charge
notice,

18.2.88C.5.i

about the refund of sums paid by way of civil penalty charge,

18.2.88C.5.j

about exemptions from liability,

18.2.88C.5.k

whether and how an authority must keep and publish accounts in respect of sums
received by way of civil penalty charge.

18.2.88C.6

In this section—

      an “ authorised officer ” means an employee of a litter authority who is
authorised in writing by the authority for the purposes of imposing civil
penalty charges under this section,           “ litter authority ” means—
a local authority,           Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park
Authority, or           such other person as may be specified in regulations
by the Scottish Ministers,                 “ local authority ” means a council
constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994,
“ registered keeper ”, in relation to a registered vehicle, means the person
in whose name the vehicle is registered under the Vehicle Excise and
Registration Act 1994,           “ registered vehicle ” means a vehicle which
is registered under that Act,           “ vehicle ” means a mechanically-
propelled vehicle or a vehicle designed or adapted for towing by a
mechanically-propelled vehicle.

########## Littering from a vehicle: consequences of civil penalty charge notice under section 88C

18.2.88D

18.2.88D.1

No action may be taken under section 87 or section 88 against a person in
respect of an act of littering for which a civil penalty charge notice has
been given and paid in full, regardless of whether or not the person who paid
it is the vehicle’s keeper.

18.2.88D.2

After the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which a civil
penalty charge notice is given, any unpaid amount of the charge may be
recovered in like manner as an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a
warrant for execution issued by the sheriff for any sheriffdom.

.

18.3

In section 160A, in the table in subsection (2), after the entry relating to
section 47B(1) (as inserted by section  13 (3)) insert—

      88C(5) (littering from a vehicle: Scottish civil penalty regime) any
regulations under that subsection.

.

### Enforcement powers in respect of certain environmental offences

#### Powers to search and seize vehicles, etc.

19

19.1

The Environment Act 1995 is modified as follows.

19.2

After section 110 insert—

########## Further enforcement powers: Scotland

########### Search and seizure of vehicles, etc.

19.2.110A

19.2.110A.1

A relevant official may exercise the powers set out in subsection (2) where—

19.2.110A.1.a

the official reasonably believes that a vehicle has been, is being or is about
to be used in the commission of a relevant offence, and

19.2.110A.1.b

proceedings have not been brought against any person in respect of the
offence.

19.2.110A.2

The powers referred to in subsection (1) are—

19.2.110A.2.a

the power to stop the vehicle (but only a constable in uniform may stop a
vehicle on a road),

19.2.110A.2.b

the power to require any occupant of the vehicle to give the official—

19.2.110A.2.b.i

the occupant’s name and address,

19.2.110A.2.b.ii

the name and address of the person in whose name the vehicle is registered
under the Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994,

19.2.110A.2.b.iii

any other information the official reasonably requests,

19.2.110A.2.c

the power to enter premises (but not premises used for residential purposes)
at a reasonable time for the purpose of searching or seizing the vehicle,

19.2.110A.2.d

the power to search the vehicle,

19.2.110A.2.e

the power to seize the vehicle and any of its contents.

19.2.110A.3

Any information a person gives in response to a requirement imposed under
subsection (2) (b)  is inadmissible in evidence against the person in criminal
proceedings in respect of any offence other than an offence under  section
110B (1) .

19.2.110A.4

A vehicle or its contents seized under subsection (2)(e)—

19.2.110A.4.a

by a relevant official of SEPA acting alone, are seized on behalf of SEPA,

19.2.110A.4.b

by a relevant official of a waste collection authority acting alone, are
seized on behalf of the waste collection authority in whose area the seizure
takes place,

19.2.110A.4.c

by a constable in the presence of or at the request of a relevant official of
SEPA, are seized on behalf of SEPA,

19.2.110A.4.d

by a constable acting alone, or in the presence of or at the request of a
relevant official of a waste collection authority, are seized on behalf of the
waste collection authority in whose area the seizure takes place.

19.2.110A.5

For the purposes of this section, an offence is a relevant offence if an
enactment states that the powers conferred by this section may be exercised in
relation to it.

19.2.110A.6

In this section and sections 110B and 110C—

      “ enactment ” includes an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument
made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament,           “ mobile plant ”
means plant which is designed to move or to be moved whether on roads or
otherwise,           “ premises ” includes any land, vehicle, vessel or mobile
plant,           “ relevant official ” means—         a person authorised by
SEPA or by a waste collection authority to exercise the powers conferred by
this section, or           a constable,                 “ road ” has the same
meaning as in the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984,           “ vehicle ” means—
a motor vehicle within the meaning of the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984,
a vehicle drawn by a motor vehicle,           mobile plant,                 “
waste collection authority ” means a council constituted under section 2 of
the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994.

########### Offences of obstructing, not co-operating, etc.

19.2.110B

19.2.110B.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

19.2.110B.1.a

fails without reasonable excuse to give any assistance that a relevant
official reasonably requests in the exercise of a power conferred by  section
110A ,

19.2.110B.1.b

otherwise intentionally obstructs a relevant official in exercising one of
those powers,

19.2.110B.1.c

fails without reasonable excuse to give information when required to do so by
a relevant official in exercise of the power conferred by  section 110A (2)
(b) ,

19.2.110B.1.d

in response to such a requirement knowingly or recklessly gives information
that is, in a material way, either false or misleading.

19.2.110B.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

########### Handling of seized property

19.2.110C

19.2.110C.1

Where property has been seized under  section 110A  on behalf of SEPA or a
waste collection authority, the authority on whose behalf it was seized (the
“responsible authority”) may remove the seized property to a place which it
considers appropriate.

19.2.110C.2

The responsible authority must—

19.2.110C.2.a

deal with any seized property in accordance with regulations made by the
Scottish Ministers, and

19.2.110C.2.b

in so doing, have regard to any guidance issued by the Scottish Ministers.

19.2.110C.3

Regulations under subsection (2)(a)—

19.2.110C.3.a

must set out—

19.2.110C.3.a.i

the duties of a responsible authority in relation to the safe custody of
seized property,

19.2.110C.3.a.ii

the circumstances in which seized property must be returned to a person
claiming entitlement to it,

19.2.110C.3.a.iii

the circumstances in which a responsible authority may sell, destroy or
otherwise dispose of seized property, and

19.2.110C.3.a.iv

the uses to which the proceeds of any sale may be put,

19.2.110C.3.b

must require a responsible authority to publish a notice in such form, and to
take any other steps, as may be specified in the regulations for informing
persons who may be entitled to the seized property that it has been seized and
is available to be claimed,

19.2.110C.3.c

must require a responsible authority to wait for a period specified in the
regulations before selling, destroying or otherwise disposing of seized
property, with that period beginning only once the responsible authority has
taken steps specified in the regulations to inform anyone who may be entitled
to the seized property in question that it has been seized and how a claim for
its return may be made,

19.2.110C.3.d

may—

19.2.110C.3.d.i

provide for exceptions to the requirements described by paragraphs (b) and
(c),

19.2.110C.3.d.ii

include any other provision that the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

19.2.110C.4

Regulations under  subsection (2) (a) are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

########### Power to apply enforcement powers in respect of offences

19.2.110D

19.2.110D.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide for an offence to be, or
cease to be, a relevant offence for the purposes of  section 110A .

19.2.110D.2

The power conferred by subsection (1) may be exercised to modify any enactment
(including this Act).

19.2.110D.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

#### Offences in respect of which powers may be exercised

20

20.1

In the Control of Pollution (Amendment) Act 1989—

20.1.a

in section 1 (offence of transporting controlled waste without registering),
after subsection (5) insert—

20.1.a.5A

The enforcement powers conferred by  section 110A  of the Environment Act 1995
may be exercised in relation to an offence under this section.

,

20.1.b

in section 5 (duty to produce authority to transport controlled waste)—

20.1.b.i

for subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

20.1.b.i.1A

Where it reasonably appears to a duly authorised officer of a regulation
authority or to a constable that a person—

20.1.b.i.1A.a

has been engaged in transporting controlled waste in contravention of section
1(1),

20.1.b.i.1A.b

is engaged in doing so, or

20.1.b.i.1A.c

is about to engage in doing so,

the officer or constable may require the person to produce the person's
authority or, as the case may be, the person’s employer’s authority for
transporting the waste.

20.1.b.i.1B

In this section, references to a “regulation authority” include a waste
collection authority falling within section 30(3)(c) of the Environmental
Protection Act 1990.

,

20.1.b.ii

in subsection (4)(a) for “(1)” substitute  “(1A)” ,

20.1.b.iii

in subsection (6)(a) for “his” substitute  “the person’s (or, as the case may
be, the person’s employer’s)” ,

20.1.b.iv

in subsection (6)(b) for “he” substitute  “the person” ,

20.1.c

section 6 (seizure and disposal of vehicles used for illegal waste disposal)
is repealed.

20.2

In the Environmental Protection Act 1990—

20.2.a

in section 33 (prohibition on unauthorised or harmful deposit, treatment or
disposal etc. of waste), after subsection (10) insert—

20.2.a.10A

The enforcement powers conferred by  section 110A  of the Environment Act 1995
may be exercised in relation to an offence under this section.

,

20.2.b

in section 34 (duty of care etc. as respects waste), after subsection (6)
insert—

20.2.b.6A

The enforcement powers conferred by  section 110A  of the Environment Act 1995
may be exercised in relation to an offence consisting of a failure to comply
with the duty imposed by subsections (1)(a), (aa), (b) and (c) and (2I).

.

20.3

In the Pollution Prevention and Control (Scotland) Regulations 2012 ( S.S.I.
2012/360 ), after regulation 57 insert—

########## Search and seizure of vehicles, etc.

20.3.57A

The enforcement powers conferred by  section 110A  of the 1995 Act may be
exercised in relation to an offence under regulation 67(1)(a) or (b).

.

### Offences relating to the use etc. of injurious articles or substances: fixed penalty notices

#### Offences relating to the use etc. of injurious articles or substances: fixed penalty notices

21

21.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is modified as follows.

21.2

In section 140, after subsection (10) insert—

21.2.10A

Regulations under this section may provide for an enforcement officer to give
to a person whom the enforcement officer has reason to believe has committed
an offence under the regulations a notice offering the opportunity of
discharging any liability to conviction for the offence by payment of a fixed
penalty not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

21.2.10B

In subsection (10A), an “ enforcement officer ” means a person referred to in
subsection (3)(c).

21.2.10C

Where provision under subsection (10A) is made in regulations under this
section, the regulations may—

21.2.10C.a

provide for the amount of the fixed penalty to be different in different cases
or descriptions of case,

21.2.10C.b

impose requirements on persons to whom a fixed notice is given to provide
their name, address and date of birth,

21.2.10C.c

create offences for failure to comply with requirements mentioned in paragraph
(b), subject to a maximum penalty, on summary conviction, of a fine not
exceeding level 3 on the standard scale,

21.2.10C.d

enable enforcement officers to give certificates as to proof of payment or
non-payment of a fixed penalty and for such certificates to be evidence of the
facts stated in them.

21.2.10D

Where provision under subsection (10A) is made in regulations under this
section, the regulations must require a fixed penalty notice—

21.2.10D.a

to set out the particulars of the circumstances alleged to constitute the
offence as are necessary for giving reasonable information about the offence,

21.2.10D.b

to set out the amount of the fixed penalty,

21.2.10D.c

if the amount of the fixed penalty may be discounted in certain circumstances,
to set out those circumstances and the amount of the discount,

21.2.10D.d

to set out the period within which the fixed penalty is to be paid, the person
to whom it is to be paid and the arrangements for doing so,

21.2.10D.e

to set out the effect of paying the fixed penalty within the payment period
and the consequences of not paying the fixed penalty within that period.

.

### Reporting on waste, surpluses, etc.

#### Duty to make information publicly available

22

22.1

The Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 is modified as follows.

22.2

In schedule 2 (particular purposes for which provision may be made under
section 18: information, publicity and consultation), after paragraph 14
insert—

22.2.14A

Imposing duties on persons of any specified description (whether or not they
are holders of permits or carrying on activities that are subject to
registration, a requirement of notification or general binding rules) to make
publicly available in a specified manner, specified information about anything
stored or disposed of by them or on their behalf, except in relation to their
domestic activities.

.

### Waste reprocessing infrastructure report

#### Waste reprocessing infrastructure report

23

23.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish a waste reprocessing
infrastructure report.

23.2

A waste reprocessing infrastructure report is to set out the Scottish
Ministers’ policies and proposals for the use and development of waste
reprocessing infrastructure.

23.3

A waste reprocessing infrastructure report must map out—

23.3.a

current waste infrastructure,

23.3.b

planned waste infrastructure,

23.3.c

any proposed infrastructure by the Scottish Ministers or other relevant
bodies.

23.4

In preparing the waste reprocessing infrastructure report, the Scottish
Ministers must have regard to any National Planning Framework published by
them under the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997.

23.5

The Scottish Ministers must lay a waste reprocessing infrastructure report
before the Scottish Parliament.

23.6

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish the waste reprocessing
infrastructure report before the expiry of one year beginning with the day
after Royal Assent.

### Zero Waste Scotland: application of public bodies legislation

#### Zero Waste Scotland: application of public bodies legislation

24

The schedule modifies other Acts so that their provisions apply to Zero Waste
Scotland.

### Deposit and return schemes

#### Deposit and return schemes: power to direct scheme administrator

25

25.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

25.2

For section 85(4) substitute—

25.2.4

An order under subsection (1)(a) or (b) may include provision about the giving
of directions by the Scottish Ministers to the scheme administrator about the
exercise of the administrator’s functions in relation to the scheme.

.

### Final provisions

#### Ancillary provision

26

26.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

26.2

Regulations under  this section  may—

26.2.a

make different provision for different purposes,

26.2.b

modify any enactment (including this Act).

26.3

Regulations under  this section —

26.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act, but

26.3.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

27

27.1

The following provisions come into force on the day after Royal Assent: this
section and sections  26  and  28 .

27.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

27.3

Regulations under this section may—

27.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

27.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

28

The short title of this Act is the Circular Economy (Scotland) Act 2024.

  Zero Waste Scotland: application of public bodies legislation

(introduced by section 24)

##### Ethical Standards in Public Life etc. (Scotland) Act 2000

1

1.1

The Ethical Standards in Public Life etc. (Scotland) Act 2000 is modified as
follows.

1.2

In schedule 3 (devolved public bodies), after the entry relating to the Water
Industry Commission for Scotland insert—

      Zero Waste Scotland

.

##### Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002

2

2.1

The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 is modified as follows.

2.2

In Part 7 of schedule 1 (other Scottish public authorities to which the Act
applies), after paragraph 106 insert—

2.2.107

Zero Waste Scotland.

.

##### Public Appointments and Public Bodies etc. (Scotland) Act 2003

3

3.1

The Public Appointments and Public Bodies etc. (Scotland) Act 2003 is modified
as follows.

3.2

In schedule 2 (the specified authorities), under the heading of “Executive
bodies”, after the entry relating to the Water Industry Commission for
Scotland insert—

      Zero Waste Scotland

.

##### Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010

4

4.1

The Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 is modified as follows.

4.2

In schedule 5 (improvement of public functions: listed bodies), under the
heading of “Scottish public authorities with mixed functions or no reserved
functions”, after the entry relating to the Water Industry Commission for
Scotland insert—

      Zero Waste Scotland

.

4.3

In schedule 8 (information on exercise of public functions: listed public
bodies), after the entry relating to the Water Industry Commission for
Scotland insert—

      Zero Waste Scotland

.

##### Public Records (Scotland) Act 2011

5

5.1

The Public Records (Scotland) Act 2011 is modified as follows.

5.2

In the schedule (authorities to which Part 1 of the Act applies), under the
heading of “Others”, after the entry relating to the Water Industry Commission
for Scotland insert—

      Zero Waste Scotland

.

##### Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014

6

6.1

The Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 is modified as follows.

6.2

In Part 3 of the schedule (other contracting authorities to which the Act
applies), after paragraph 69 insert—

6.2.70

Zero Waste Scotland

.

##### Gender Representation on Public Boards (Scotland) Act 2018

7

7.1

The Gender Representation on Public Boards (Scotland) Act 2018 is modified as
follows.

7.2

In schedule 1 (public authorities), after the entry relating to West Highland
College UHI insert—

      Zero Waste Scotland (company number SC436030)

.

##### Islands (Scotland) Act 2018

8

8.1

The Islands (Scotland) Act 2018 is modified as follows.

8.2

In the schedule (relevant authorities), under the heading of “Scottish public
authorities with mixed or no reserved functions”, after paragraph 37 insert—

8.2.38

Zero Waste (Scotland) (company number SC436030)

.

