Title: Climate Change (Emissions Reduction Targets) (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-11-22
Publisher: King's Printer for Scotland
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/15/enacted

## Climate Change (Emissions Reduction Targets) (Scotland) Act 2024

### Emissions reduction targets

#### Modification of the Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009

##### Scottish carbon budgets

###### Scottish carbon budgets

1

1.1

The  Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009  is modified as follows.

1.2

After  section A1  insert—

############ Scottish carbon budgets

############# Scottish carbon budgets and associated concepts

1.2.A2

1.2.A2.1

A Scottish carbon budget is the number of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
prescribed for a given period.

1.2.A2.2

The Scottish carbon budget for a period is exceeded if the net Scottish
emissions account for the period exceeds the number of tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent prescribed for the period.

1.2.A2.3

Not exceeding a Scottish carbon budget is referred to in this Act as a
“Scottish carbon budget target”.

1.2.A2.4

Where this Act refers to an emissions reduction target for a year, the
reference is to be construed in the context of a Scottish carbon budget target
as follows—

1.2.A2.4.a

the year in question is the final year of the period covered by the Scottish
carbon budget giving rise to the target, and

1.2.A2.4.b

the target for the year is met if that budget has not been exceeded.

1.2.A2.5

In this section, “ prescribed ” means prescribed by virtue of regulations
under  section A4 .

############# Duty of Scottish Ministers in relation to budgets

1.2.A3

The Scottish Ministers must ensure that each Scottish carbon budget target is
met.

############# Budget-setting regulations

1.2.A4

1.2.A4.1

The Scottish Ministers must, by regulations, set Scottish carbon budgets so
that every year between 2026 and the net-zero emissions target year is covered
by a budget.

1.2.A4.2

A budget for a period—

1.2.A4.2.a

may be set by expressing the prescribed number of tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalent for the period either as a figure or as a method for calculating a
figure, and

1.2.A4.2.b

may, in particular, be set by expressing the number as a proportion of the
baseline multiplied by the number of years comprising the period.

1.2.A4.3

The period covered by a Scottish carbon budget—

1.2.A4.3.a

is to be 5 years (for example 2026 to 2030), but

1.2.A4.3.b

may be shorter in the case of the budget for the period that ends with the
net-zero emissions target year.

1.2.A4.4

In preparing a draft of regulations to be made under this section, the
Scottish Ministers must—

1.2.A4.4.a

have regard to the target-setting criteria, and

1.2.A4.4.b

take into account the most up-to-date advice they have received from the
relevant body.

1.2.A4.5

On the same day as laying before the Scottish Parliament for approval a draft
of regulations under this section, the Scottish Ministers must publish a
statement setting out in respect of each Scottish carbon budget that would be
set by the regulations—

1.2.A4.5.a

the extent to which the proposed budget takes account of the target-setting
criteria, and

1.2.A4.5.b

whether the proposed budget is in accordance with the most up-to-date advice
the Ministers have received from the relevant body and, if it is not, the
reasons why.

1.2.A4.6

A statement under  subsection (5)  must also set out, in indicative terms, the
proposals and policies in relation to each of the sectors mentioned in section
35(3) which are likely (if the regulations are approved) to be set out in the
next climate change plan due to be laid before the Scottish Parliament under
section 35(1).

1.2.A4.7

A statement under  subsection (5)  must also state whether the Scottish
Ministers expect that, during the period covered by a Scottish carbon budget
that would be set by the regulations, the net Scottish emissions account for a
year will, for the first time since this section came into force, be—

1.2.A4.7.a

75% lower than the baseline,

1.2.A4.7.b

90% lower than the baseline.

############# Alteration of budget periods

1.2.A5

1.2.A5.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  section A4 (3)  so as to
alter the length of the periods to be covered by Scottish carbon budgets.

1.2.A5.2

The power under this section may be exercised only if it appears to the
Scottish Ministers necessary to do so in order to keep the periods covered by
Scottish carbon budgets in line with similar periods under any international
agreement to which the United Kingdom is a party.

1.2.A5.3

Before laying before the Scottish Parliament for approval a draft of
regulations under this section, the Scottish Ministers must consult the
relevant body.

.

1.3

In section 97(1), before paragraph (a) insert—

1.3.za

regulations, other than the first regulations, under  section A4 ;

.

###### Replacement of annual and interim targets with budget targets

2

2.1

The  Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009  is modified as follows.

2.2

Section 2 , and the italic cross heading immediately preceding it, are
repealed.

2.3

Section 2A  is repealed.

2.4

In  section 2C —

2.4.a

in  subsection (3) —

2.4.a.i

for  paragraph (b)  substitute—

2.4.a.i.ab

whether each Scottish carbon budget for a period not yet reported on under
section 33 is appropriate by reference to the target-setting criteria (and if
not, advice as to any alternative budget for the period that would be
appropriate),

,

2.4.a.ii

in  paragraph (d) , for  “interim  substitute  “Scottish carbon budget ,

2.4.b

in  subsection (4) , for  paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  substitute—

2.4.b.ab

a Scottish carbon budget target arising from a Scottish carbon budget for a
period that falls wholly within the period of 15 years beginning with the year
immediately following the year in which the request is made under subsection
(1), and

.

2.5

In  section 2E —

2.5.a

after  subsection (3)  insert—

2.5.a.3A

Subsection  (3B)  applies if the relevant body’s advice states that the
Scottish carbon budget for a period not yet reported on under section 33 is
not appropriate and that a different Scottish carbon budget for the period
would be appropriate.

2.5.a.3B

The Scottish Ministers must—

2.5.a.3B.a

within 3 months of receiving that advice publish a statement setting out how
they intend to respond to that advice, and

2.5.a.3B.b

if they do not, within 12 months of receiving that advice, lay for approval a
draft of regulations under  section A4  to make the advised change to the
Scottish carbon budget for the period, make a statement to the Scottish
Parliament setting out the reasons for not doing so.

,

2.5.b

subsections (4)  and  (5)  are repealed.

2.6

Section 3 , and the italic cross heading immediately preceding it, are
repealed.

2.7

Section 3A  is repealed.

2.8

Section 3B  is repealed.

2.9

In  section 3C —

2.9.a

in  subsection (1) , for  paragraphs (b)  and  (c)  substitute—

2.9.a.ab

the Scottish carbon budgets,

,

2.9.b

for  subsection (3)  substitute—

2.9.b.3

The Scottish Ministers must lay a copy of the list before the Scottish
Parliament as soon as reasonably practicable after any change is made to it.

.

2.10

In  section 9 (2) (d) , for  “that year  substitute  “the period of the
Scottish carbon budget for the period ending with the target year .

2.11

In  section 13A —

2.11.a

in  subsection (1) , for  “year  substitute  “given period ,

2.11.b

in  subsection (2) —

2.11.b.i

for  “target year  substitute  “period ,

2.11.b.ii

for  “that year  substitute  “that period ,

2.11.c

after  subsection (2)  insert—

2.11.c.2A

The planned reduction in the net Scottish emissions account for a period
covered by a Scottish carbon budget is the difference between the following
amounts, both being determined immediately before the regulations under
subsection (1) are made—

2.11.c.2A.a

the Scottish carbon budget for the period, and

2.11.c.2A.b

the Scottish carbon budget for the immediately preceding period.

2.11.c.2B

In order for the planned reduction in the net Scottish emissions account to be
calculated for the first period to be covered by a Scottish carbon budget, the
Scottish Ministers are by regulations to prescribe a notional Scottish carbon
budget for the 5 years immediately preceding the first period to be covered by
a Scottish carbon budget.

2.11.c.2C

Subsections  (4)  and  (5)  of  section A4  apply in relation to regulations
under  subsection (2B)  of this section as they do in relation to regulations
under that section.

,

2.11.d

in  subsection (3) —

2.11.d.i

in the opening words, for  “a target year  substitute  “a year that does not
fall within a period covered by a Scottish carbon budget ,

2.11.d.ii

in  paragraph (a) , the word  “target , where it appears immediately before
“year , is repealed,

2.11.e

after  subsection (3)  insert—

2.11.e.3A

In  subsection (3) , “ emissions reduction target ”, in relation to a year,
means the annual target under  section 3  or (as the case may be) the interim
target under  section 2  that applied in respect of the year immediately
before the section was repealed.

,

2.11.f

in  subsection (4) , in the opening words, for  “a year  substitute  “a period
.

2.12

In  section 17 (3) , for  “section 33  substitute  “sections 33 and   34A .

2.13

In  section 18 (2) , for  “section 33  substitute  “sections 33 and   34A .

2.14

In  section 24 (3) (a) , for  “2(1)  substitute  “  A3 .

2.15

In  section 33 —

2.15.a

for  subsections (1)  and  (2)  substitute—

2.15.a.1

The Scottish Ministers must, following each period covered by a Scottish
carbon budget, lay before the Scottish Parliament a report in relation to that
period.

2.15.a.2

The report must state—

2.15.a.2.a

the Scottish carbon budget for the period,

2.15.a.2.b

whether the Scottish carbon budget target arising from that budget has been
met,

2.15.a.2.c

the percentage by which the net Scottish emissions account for the period is
lower than the baseline multiplied by the number of years comprising the
period,

2.15.a.2.d

the difference between—

2.15.a.2.d.i

the net Scottish emissions account for the period, and

2.15.a.2.d.ii

the Scottish carbon budget for the period.

2.15.a.2A

The report relating to the period ending with the net-zero emissions target
year must also state—

2.15.a.2A.a

the net-zero emissions target,

2.15.a.2A.b

whether that target has been met,

2.15.a.2A.c

the percentage by which the net Scottish emissions account for the net-zero
emissions target year is lower than the baseline,

2.15.a.2A.d

the amount by which the net Scottish emissions account for the net-zero
emissions target year is lower or higher than the net-zero emissions target.

,

2.15.b

in  subsection (3) , for  “subsection (2)  substitute  “subsections   (2)  and
(2A) .

2.16

In  section 34 —

2.16.a

in  subsection (1) —

2.16.a.i

in each of the following provisions, for  “the year  substitute  “each year —

2.16.a.i.A

paragraph (a) (ii) ,  (iii)  and  (iv) ,

2.16.a.i.B

paragraph (b) (i) ,  (ii) ,  (iii)  and  (iv) ,

2.16.a.i.C

paragraph (c) (i)  and  (ii) ,

2.16.a.ii

in  paragraph (c) (iii) —

2.16.a.ii.A

before  “year  insert  “final ,

2.16.a.ii.B

the word  “target  is repealed,

2.16.a.iii

in  paragraph (d) , for  “target year preceding the  substitute  “year between
2010 and the final ,

2.16.a.iv

in  paragraph (e) , before  “year  insert  “final ,

2.16.b

in  subsection (3) , for  “an earlier target year  substitute  “a year covered
by a previous report under section 33 or   34A .

2.17

After  section 34  insert—

############ Annual report on emissions reduction

2.17.34A

2.17.34A.1

The Scottish Ministers must following each year lay before the Scottish
Parliament a report in relation to that year.

2.17.34A.2

But  subsection (1)  does not apply in relation to a year if—

2.17.34A.2.a

it is the final year of a period covered by a Scottish carbon budget,

2.17.34A.2.b

it has been reported on under section 33, or

2.17.34A.2.c

it is a year that is—

2.17.34A.2.c.i

earlier than the first year to be reported on under section 33, or

2.17.34A.2.c.ii

later than the net-zero emissions target year.

2.17.34A.3

The report must be laid before the Parliament as soon as reasonably
practicable after the information to be contained in the report becomes
available.

2.17.34A.4

The report—

2.17.34A.4.a

must state—

2.17.34A.4.a.i

the percentage by which the net Scottish emissions account for the year is
lower than the baseline, and

2.17.34A.4.a.ii

the information mentioned in section 34(1), read subject to the modification
that references to each year, and the final year, covered by the report are to
be read as references to the year covered by the report, and

2.17.34A.4.b

may contain such other information as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

2.17.34A.5

The Scottish Ministers must use current international carbon reporting
practice for the purposes of assessing and reporting on the matters mentioned
in  subsection (4) .

2.17.34A.6

If the methods used to determine net Scottish emissions of greenhouse gases
change and that change is such as to require adjustment of an amount for a
year covered by a report under section 33 or a previous report under this
section, the report must—

2.17.34A.6.a

specify the adjustment required and state the adjusted amount, and

2.17.34A.6.b

explain why the adjustment is required.

2.17.34A.7

An adjustment under  subsection (6)  must, in so far as practicable, be made
in accordance with current international carbon reporting practice.

.

2.18

In  section 35 (4) (b) , for the words from  “the same year  to  “emissions
 substitute  “a .

2.19

The title of  section 36  becomes  “Reports on proposals and policies where
emissions reduction targets not met .

2.20

In  section 42 —

2.20.a

for  subsection (1A)  substitute—

2.20.a.1A

If—

2.20.a.1A.a

the year covered by the report is a target year, and

2.20.a.1A.b

the emissions reduction target for that year has not been met,

the statement under subsection (1)(b) must explain why.

,

2.20.b

in  subsection (2) , after  paragraph (a)  insert—

2.20.b.ab

section 34A (1)  (annual report on emissions reduction);

,

2.20.c

in  subsection (3) , after  “33  insert  “or   34A .

2.21

In  section 57 (3) (a) , for  “1, 2(1) or 3(1)(b)  substitute  “A1 or   A3 .

2.22

In  section 96 (7) (aa) , for  “year  substitute  “period .

2.23

In  section 97 (1) (b) , for  “year  substitute  “period .

2.24

In  section 98 —

2.24.a

the definition of “annual target” is repealed,

2.24.b

in the definition of “emissions reduction target”, for paragraphs (a) and (b)
substitute—

      a Scottish carbon budget target (and references to meeting such a target
are to be construed in accordance with  section A2 (4) ), or

,

2.24.c

the definition of “interim target” is repealed,

2.24.d

after the definition of “renewable sources” insert—

      “ Scottish carbon budget ” has the meaning given by  section A2 (1) ,
“ Scottish carbon budget target ” has the meaning given by  section A2 (3) ,

,

2.24.e

for the definition of “target year” substitute—

      “ target year ” means—         the final year of a period for which a
Scottish carbon budget is set,           the net-zero emissions target year,

.

##### Climate change plan

###### Next plan to follow setting of budgets

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers must lay a draft climate change plan before the
Scottish Parliament before the end of the period of 2 months beginning with
the day that the first regulations setting a Scottish carbon budget under
section A4  of the Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 come into force.

3.2

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

3.3

In  section 35 (1), for paragraph (a) substitute—

3.3.a

in the case of the first plan, before the end of the period of 90 days, of
which no fewer than 45 must be days on which the Parliament is not dissolved
or in recess, beginning with the day on which the period described by section
35A(1)(a) ends following the laying of a draft plan in accordance with
section 3 (1)  of the Climate Change (Emissions Reduction Targets) (Scotland)
Act 2024,

.

###### Content of plan: budget-period breakdown of costs and benefits

4

4.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

4.2

In section 35(21), after “plan” the second time it occurs insert  “, broken
down by reference to the period covered by a Scottish carbon budget in which
those costs and benefits are expected to arise” .

###### Content of plan: contribution of policies to meeting targets

5

5.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

5.2

In section 35(5)—

5.2.a

the words “the Scottish Ministers’ proposals and policies regarding” are
repealed,

5.2.b

after “contributions” insert  “(in measurable terms)” ,

5.2.c

the words “each of the sectors mentioned in subsection (3)” become paragraph
(a),

5.2.d

after that paragraph insert

, and

5.2.d.b

each group of associated policies set out in the plan.

.

###### Preparation of plan: public consultation

6

6.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

6.2

After section 35, insert—

############ Preparation of climate change plan: public consultation

6.2.35ZA

6.2.35ZA.1

The Scottish Ministers must carry out a public consultation to inform the
proposals and policies to be set out in a climate change plan laid under
section 35(1)(b).

6.2.35ZA.2

Before carrying out a consultation under subsection (1), the Scottish
Ministers must lay a statement before the Parliament setting out—

6.2.35ZA.2.a

the methodologies the Scottish Ministers plan to use to consult, which may
include digital, postal or in-person events,

6.2.35ZA.2.b

the steps the Scottish Ministers are planning to take to ensure persons likely
to be interested in the subject matter of the consultation are aware of the
consultation,

6.2.35ZA.2.c

the period of time for which the Scottish Ministers plan to consult, which
must be a period no less than 6 months,

6.2.35ZA.2.d

such other information as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

.

###### Preparation of plan: further consultation

7

7.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 35A(1)—

7.2.a

the “and” following paragraph (a) is repealed,

7.2.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

7.2.b.aa

request the views of such persons as they consider appropriate with—

7.2.b.aa.i

knowledge of international law or policy relating to climate change,

7.2.b.aa.ii

scientific knowledge about climate change,

7.2.b.aa.iii

technical knowledge of climate change, and

,

7.2.c

in paragraph (b), after sub-paragraph (ii), insert—

7.2.c.iia

any views on the draft plan set out by a person whose views were requested in
accordance with paragraph (aa),

.

###### Requirement to respond to parliamentary reports and resolutions on draft plan

8

8.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

8.2

In section 35A, after subsection (1) insert—

8.2.1A

The Scottish Ministers must publish a response to any—

8.2.1A.a

resolution of a kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (iii) of subsection (1)(b), or

8.2.1A.b

report of a kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (iv) of that provision,

within 3 months of the resolution being passed or (as the case may be) the
report being published.

8.2.1B

The duty under  subsection (1A)  may be fulfilled by laying a statement before
the Parliament in accordance with subsection (2) that addresses the resolution
or report in question.

.

##### Reporting and assessments

###### Report on proposals and policies where targets at risk of not being met

9

9.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

9.2

In section 35B, after subsection (2) insert—

9.2.2A

If, when preparing a report under subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers’
assessment of progress is such that they consider that it is more likely than
not that an emissions reduction target will not be met, the report must also
explain—

9.2.2A.a

why they consider that to be the case, and

9.2.2A.b

what they intend to do to ensure the target is met, including details of any
changes to policies that will be implemented during the period covered by a
Scottish carbon budget in which the report is laid.

.

###### Deadline for report on proposals and policies where targets not met

10

10.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

10.2

In section 36(2), for the words from  “As soon  to  “laid  substitute  “Within
the period of 6 months beginning with the day that the report referred to in
subsection (1) is laid before the Parliament .

###### Annual progress reports on climate change plan: further procedure

11

11.1

The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 is modified as follows.

11.2

In section 42(2), after paragraph (ab) (which is inserted by section 2 of this
Act) insert—

11.2.aa

section 35B  (climate change plan: annual progress reports);

.

###### Assessing the impact of major capital projects on meeting targets

12

12.1

The  Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009  is modified as follows.

12.2

In  section 33 , before subsection (2A) (inserted by  section 2 (15) (a)  of
this Act) insert—

12.2.2ZA

The report must also set out details of any assessments, carried out during
the period to which the report relates, in accordance with the proposals and
policies set out in a climate change plan for assessing the impact of major
capital projects on meeting Scottish carbon budget targets.

.

12.3

In  section 35 , after subsection (20) insert—

12.3.20A

The plan must also set out the Scottish Ministers’ proposals and policies for
assessing the impact of major capital projects (as defined in the plan) on
meeting Scottish carbon budget targets.

.

#### Setting Scottish carbon budgets

##### Setting Scottish carbon budgets

###### Further provision about setting first budgets

13

13.1

The first regulations under  section A4  of the  2009 Act  setting Scottish
carbon budgets are to do so by—

13.1.a

inserting a new section into   the 2009 Act , and

13.1.b

replacing the words  “by virtue of regulations under  section A4  in  section
A2 (5)  of   the 2009 Act  with a cross reference to the new section.

13.2

The Scottish Ministers may not conclude their preparation of the first draft
regulations under  section A4  of  the 2009 Act  to be laid before the
Scottish Parliament for approval, until they have received advice from the
relevant body on setting Scottish carbon budgets following a request for that
advice under  section 2C  or  2D  of  the 2009 Act .

13.3

The Scottish Ministers must lay draft regulations under section A4 of the 2009
Act before the Scottish Parliament for approval within the period of 3 months
beginning with their receiving the advice that subsection (2) requires them to
have received before they conclude their preparation of the first draft
regulations.

13.4

If the Scottish Ministers request advice under  section 2C  of the  2009 Act
before the first regulations under  section A4  of   that Act  have come into
force,  section 2C  is to be read in relation to that request as though—

13.4.a

a reference to a Scottish carbon budget were a reference to the Scottish
carbon budget that the relevant body has advised, or intends to advise, the
Scottish Ministers to set, and

13.4.b

a reference to a Scottish carbon budget target were a reference to the
Scottish carbon budget target that would arise from a Scottish carbon budget
that the relevant body has advised, or intends to advise, the Scottish
Ministers to set.

13.5

In  this section —

      “ 2009 Act ” means the  Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 ,           “
relevant body ” has the meaning given in the  2009 Act .

### Final provisions

#### Ancillary provision

14

14.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, or in connection with, or for giving full
effect to this Act or any provision made under it.

14.2

Regulations under  this section  may—

14.2.a

modify any enactment (including this Act), and

14.2.b

make different provision for different purposes.

14.3

Regulations under  this section —

14.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act, but

14.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

15

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

#### Short title

16

The short title of this Act is the Climate Change (Emissions Reduction
Targets) (Scotland) Act 2024.

