Title: Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024
Date: 2024-07-26
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/13

## Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Digital Markets

#### Overview

##### Overview

1

1.1

This Part —

1.1.a

confers functions on the CMA in relation to the regulation of competition in
digital markets, and

1.1.b

makes related provision.

1.2

Chapter 2  makes provision about the designation of undertakings as having
strategic market status in respect of a digital activity.

1.3

Chapter 3  provides for the CMA to be able to impose conduct requirements on a
designated undertaking.

1.4

Chapter 4  provides for the CMA to take steps to promote competition where it
considers that activities of a designated undertaking are having an adverse
effect on competition.

1.5

Chapter 5  makes provision about a duty to report certain possible mergers
involving a designated undertaking.

1.6

Chapter 6  makes provision about investigatory powers and compliance reports
in relation to a designated undertaking.

1.7

Chapter 7  makes provision about enforcement and appeals in relation to
functions of the CMA under  this Part .

1.8

Chapter 8  makes provision about administration and other matters in relation
to functions of the CMA under  this Part .

#### Strategic Market Status

##### Power to designate undertaking as having SMS

###### Designation of undertaking

2

2.1

The CMA may designate an undertaking as having strategic market status (“ SMS
”) in respect of a digital activity carried out by the undertaking where the
CMA considers that—

2.1.a

the digital activity is linked to the United Kingdom (see section  4 ), and

2.1.b

the undertaking meets the SMS conditions in respect of the digital activity.

2.2

The SMS conditions are that the undertaking has—

2.2.a

substantial and entrenched market power (see  section 5 ), and

2.2.b

a position of strategic significance (see  section 6 ),

in respect of the digital activity.

2.3

Subsection  (1)  is subject to section  7  (the turnover condition).

2.4

The CMA may only designate an undertaking as having SMS in respect of a
digital activity after carrying out an SMS investigation in accordance with
this Chapter.

###### Digital activities

3

3.1

For the purposes of this Part, the following are “digital activities”—

3.1.a

the provision of a service by means of the internet, whether for consideration
or otherwise;

3.1.b

the provision of one or more pieces of digital content, whether for
consideration or otherwise;

3.1.c

any other activity carried out for the purposes of an activity within
paragraph  (a)  or  (b) .

3.2

For the purposes of this section, a service is provided by means of the
internet even where it is provided by means of a combination of—

3.2.a

the internet, and

3.2.b

an electronic communications service (within the meaning given by section
32(2) of the Communications Act 2003).

3.3

The CMA may treat two or more activities within  subsection (1)  that are
carried out by a single undertaking as a single digital activity where—

3.3.a

the activities have substantially the same or similar purposes, or

3.3.b

the activities can be carried out in combination with each other to fulfil a
specific purpose.

3.4

In any notice or other document that the CMA is required to give or publish
under or by virtue of this Part, the CMA may describe a digital activity by
reference to the nature of the activity, brand names or both.

###### Link to the United Kingdom

4

A digital activity is linked to the United Kingdom for the purposes of
section 2 (1) (a)  if—

4.a

the digital activity has a significant number of UK users,

4.b

the undertaking that carries out the digital activity carries on business in
the United Kingdom in relation to the digital activity, or

4.c

the digital activity or the way in which the undertaking carries on the
digital activity is likely to have an immediate, substantial and foreseeable
effect on trade in the United Kingdom.

###### Substantial and entrenched market power

5

In order to assess whether an undertaking has substantial and entrenched
market power in respect of a digital activity for the purposes of  section 2
(2) (a) , the CMA must carry out a forward-looking assessment of a period of
at least 5 years, taking into account developments that—

5.a

would be expected or foreseeable if the CMA did not designate the undertaking
as having SMS in respect of the digital activity, and

5.b

may affect the undertaking’s conduct in carrying out the digital activity.

###### Position of strategic significance

6

An undertaking has a position of strategic significance in respect of a
digital activity for the purposes of  section 2 (2) (b)  where one or more of
the following conditions is met—

6.a

the undertaking has achieved a position of significant size or scale in
respect of the digital activity;

6.b

a significant number of other undertakings use the digital activity as carried
out by the undertaking in carrying on their business;

6.c

the undertaking’s position in respect of the digital activity would allow it
to extend its market power to a range of other activities;

6.d

the undertaking’s position in respect of the digital activity allows it to
determine or substantially influence the ways in which other undertakings
conduct themselves, in respect of the digital activity or otherwise.

###### The turnover condition

7

7.1

The CMA may not designate an undertaking as having SMS in respect of a digital
activity unless the turnover condition is met in relation to the undertaking.

7.2

The turnover condition is met in relation to an undertaking if the CMA
estimates that—

7.2.a

the total value of the global turnover of an undertaking or, where the
undertaking is part of a group, the global turnover of that group in the
relevant period exceeds £25 billion, or

7.2.b

the total value of the UK turnover of an undertaking or, where the undertaking
is part of a group, the UK turnover of that group in the relevant period
exceeds £1 billion.

7.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend either of the sums mentioned
in  subsection (2) .

7.4

Regulations under  subsection (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

7.5

The CMA must—

7.5.a

keep under review the sums mentioned in  subsection (2) , and

7.5.b

from time to time advise the Secretary of State as to whether the sums are
still appropriate.

7.6

In this section—

7.6.a

the “ relevant period ” means—

7.6.a.i

the most recent period of 12 months (“period A”) in respect of which the CMA
considers that it is able to make an estimate of the total value of the
relevant turnover of the undertaking or group, or

7.6.a.ii

if the CMA estimates that the relevant turnover of the undertaking or group in
the period of 12 months ending immediately before period A was higher than the
relevant turnover of the undertaking or group in period A, that earlier period
of 12 months;

7.6.b

the “relevant turnover” of the undertaking or group is the UK turnover or, as
the case may be, global turnover of the undertaking or group.

###### Turnover of an undertaking

8

8.1

This section  applies for the purposes of the turnover condition.

8.2

The total value of the global turnover of an undertaking or group in the
relevant period (as defined in section  7 (6) ) is, subject to regulations
under  subsection (4) , the total value of the turnover of the undertaking or
group arising in connection with any of its activities.

8.3

The total value of the UK turnover of an undertaking or group in the relevant
period is, subject to regulations under  subsection (4) , the total value of
the turnover of the undertaking or group—

8.3.a

arising in connection with any of its activities, and

8.3.b

relating to UK users or UK customers.

8.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about how the total
value of the global turnover or UK turnover of an undertaking or group in a
period is to be estimated for the purposes of the turnover condition.

8.5

Regulations under  subsection (4)  may (among other things)—

8.5.a

make provision about amounts which are, or are not, to be regarded as
comprising the turnover of an undertaking or group;

8.5.b

confer on the CMA the power to determine matters specified in the regulations
(including the matter mentioned in paragraph  (a) ).

8.6

Regulations under  subsection (4)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Procedure

###### Initial SMS investigations

9

9.1

The CMA may begin an initial SMS investigation where it has reasonable grounds
to consider that it may be able to designate an undertaking as having SMS in
respect of a digital activity in accordance with  section 2 .

9.2

An “initial SMS investigation” is an investigation into whether to designate
an undertaking as having SMS in respect of a digital activity where the
undertaking is not already designated in respect of that activity (subject to
section 10 (4) ).

9.3

The CMA may begin an initial SMS investigation into whether to designate an
undertaking as having SMS in respect of a digital activity even if it has
previously made a decision not to designate the undertaking as having SMS in
respect of that activity.

###### Further SMS investigations

10

10.1

The CMA may begin a further SMS investigation in relation to the designation
of a designated undertaking in respect of a relevant digital activity at any
time during the designation period (see  section 18 ) relating to that
designation.

10.2

The CMA must begin a further SMS investigation in relation to the designation
of a designated undertaking in respect of a relevant digital activity not
later than 9 months before the end of the designation period relating to that
designation, if it is not already carrying one out at that time under
subsection  (1) .

10.3

A “further SMS investigation” is an investigation into whether—

10.3.a

to revoke a designated undertaking’s designation in respect of the relevant
digital activity or to designate the undertaking again in respect of that
activity, and

10.3.b

to make provision under  section 17  (existing obligations).

10.4

A further SMS investigation may also include an investigation into whether to
designate the designated undertaking in respect of a digital activity that the
CMA considers to be similar or connected to the relevant digital activity
(whether instead of, or in addition to, the relevant digital activity).

###### Procedure relating to SMS investigations

11

11.1

When the CMA begins an SMS investigation it must give the undertaking to which
the investigation relates a notice (an “SMS investigation notice”).

11.2

The SMS investigation notice must state—

11.2.a

in the case of an initial SMS investigation—

11.2.a.i

the reasonable grounds mentioned in  section 9 (1) ;

11.2.a.ii

that the CMA may close the investigation in accordance with  section 12 ;

11.2.b

the purpose and scope of the SMS investigation;

11.2.c

the period by the end of which the CMA must give the undertaking a notice
setting out its decisions as a result of the investigation (see  section 14
(2) );

11.2.d

the circumstances in which that period may be extended (see  section 104 ).

11.3

The statement of the purpose and scope of the investigation must include a
description of the undertaking and digital activities to which the
investigation relates.

11.4

The CMA must give the undertaking one or more revised versions of the SMS
investigation notice if it changes its view of the purpose and scope of the
investigation.

11.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving an SMS investigation notice or
a revised version of an SMS investigation notice, the CMA must—

11.5.a

publish the notice, and

11.5.b

give a copy of the notice to the FCA, OFCOM, the Information Commissioner, the
Bank of England and the PRA.

###### Closing an initial SMS investigation without a decision

12

12.1

The CMA may close an initial SMS investigation at any time before it has
reached a final view on the matters mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of
section  2 (1) .

12.2

When the CMA decides to close an initial SMS investigation, the CMA must give
the undertaking to which the investigation related a notice to that effect.

12.3

The notice must include the CMA’s reasons for closing the investigation.

12.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under subsection  (2)
, the CMA must publish the notice.

###### Consultation on proposed decision

13

13.1

The CMA must—

13.1.a

carry out a public consultation on any decision that it is considering making
as a result of an SMS investigation (see  section 14 (1) ), and

13.1.b

bring the public consultation to the attention of such persons as it considers
appropriate.

13.2

Consultation under subsection  (1)  may be carried out at the same time as
consultation under  section 24 (1)  (consultation in relation to a conduct
requirement).

###### Outcome of SMS investigations

14

14.1

The CMA must—

14.1.a

in the case of an initial SMS investigation which it does not close under
section  12 , decide whether to designate the undertaking to which the
investigation relates as having SMS in respect of a digital activity to which
the investigation relates;

14.1.b

in the case of a further SMS investigation, make a decision on the matters
mentioned in  section 10 (3)  and, where relevant,  section 10 (4) .

14.2

The CMA must give the undertaking a notice (an “SMS decision notice”) setting
out its decisions under subsection  (1)  on or before the last day of the
period (the “SMS investigation period”) of 9 months beginning with the day on
which the SMS investigation notice is given.

14.3

The giving of a revised version of an SMS investigation notice under  section
11 (4)  does not change the day on which the SMS investigation period begins.

14.4

Sections  15  and  16  make provision about the content of an SMS decision
notice.

14.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving an SMS decision notice, the CMA
must publish the notice.

14.6

If the CMA does not give an SMS decision notice on or before the last day of
the SMS investigation period, the CMA and the undertaking to which the
investigation related are to be treated as if—

14.6.a

in the case of an initial SMS investigation, the CMA had given the undertaking
an SMS decision notice stating that it had decided not to designate the
undertaking in respect of any digital activity to which the investigation
related, and

14.6.b

in the case of a further SMS investigation, the CMA had given an SMS decision
notice stating that it had decided to revoke the designated undertaking’s
designation in respect of the relevant digital activity with effect from the
end of the SMS investigation period.

###### Notice requirements: decisions about whether to designate

15

15.1

Where the CMA decides as a result of an initial SMS investigation not to
designate the undertaking to which the investigation relates as having SMS in
respect of a digital activity to which the investigation relates, the SMS
decision notice must include the CMA’s reasons for its decision.

15.2

Subsections (3)  to  (6)  apply where the CMA decides to designate an
undertaking as having SMS in respect of a digital activity (whether or not
that undertaking is already a designated undertaking).

15.3

The SMS decision notice must include—

15.3.a

a description of the designated undertaking,

15.3.b

a description of the digital activity with respect to which the designation
has effect,

15.3.c

any provision that the CMA has decided to make in reliance on  section 17
(existing obligations),

15.3.d

the CMA’s reasons for its decisions under  section 14 (1) ,

15.3.e

a statement of the period (the “designation period”) for which the designation
has effect (see section  18 ),

15.3.f

a statement of the circumstances in which the designation period may be
extended (see  section 104 ), and

15.3.g

a statement of the circumstances in which the designation may be revoked
before the end of the designation period (see sections  10  and  14 (1) (b) ).

15.4

The CMA may give one or more revised versions of an SMS decision notice if it
changes its view of—

15.4.a

the undertaking, or

15.4.b

the digital activity,

provided that the undertaking or digital activity, as the case may be, remains
substantially the same.

15.5

The giving of a revised SMS decision notice providing for the designation of
an undertaking does not affect—

15.5.a

the day on which the designation period in relation to that designation
begins, or

15.5.b

anything done under this Part in relation to that undertaking.

15.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a revised SMS decision notice,
the CMA must publish the revised notice.

###### Notice requirements: decisions to revoke a designation

16

16.1

This section  applies where the CMA decides, as a result of a further SMS
investigation, to revoke the existing designation of a designated undertaking
in respect of a digital activity without making a further designation in
respect of that digital activity under section  14 (1)(b).

16.2

The SMS decision notice must provide for the revocation of the existing
designation—

16.2.a

to have effect at the end of the day on which the notice is given, or

16.2.b

to have effect from such earlier time as the CMA may specify in the notice.

16.3

The SMS decision notice must include—

16.3.a

any provision that the CMA has decided to make in reliance on  section 17
(existing obligations);

16.3.b

the CMA’s reasons for its decisions under  section 14 (1) (b) .

###### Existing obligations

17

17.1

Where the CMA decides, as a result of a further SMS investigation, to revoke a
designated undertaking’s designation in respect of a relevant digital
activity, the CMA may make transitional, transitory or saving provision in
respect of any existing obligation.

17.2

Provision may be made in reliance on subsection  (1)  only for the purpose of
managing the impact of the revocation—

17.2.a

on any person who benefited from the existing obligation, and

17.2.b

in a way that appears to the CMA to be fair and reasonable.

17.3

In Chapters  6  (investigatory powers and compliance reports) and  7
(enforcement and appeals), references to a “designated undertaking” are to be
read as including an undertaking to which an existing obligation applies by
virtue of provision made in reliance on subsection  (1) .

17.4

Subsection  (5)  applies where the CMA decides, as a result of a further SMS
investigation, to—

17.4.a

designate an undertaking again in respect of a relevant digital activity, or

17.4.b

designate an undertaking in respect of a different digital activity in
reliance on  section 10 (4) .

17.5

Where this subsection applies, the CMA may—

17.5.a

apply any existing obligation, with or without modification, to the designated
undertaking in respect of the new designation;

17.5.b

make transitional, transitory or saving provision in respect of any existing
obligation.

17.6

For the purposes of this section, an “existing obligation” is any—

17.6.a

conduct requirement (see  section 19 ),

17.6.b

enforcement order (see  section 31 ),

17.6.c

commitment (see sections  36  and  56 );

17.6.d

final offer order (see section  41 (2) , or

17.6.e

pro-competition order (see  section 46 (3) (a) ),

that is in force in relation to a designated undertaking in respect of the
relevant digital activity before the revocation mentioned in subsection  (1)
or, as the case may be, the designation mentioned in  subsection (4) .

17.7

Provision made in reliance on this section is to be included in an SMS
decision notice.

###### Designation period

18

18.1

Where the CMA decides to designate an undertaking as having SMS in respect of
a digital activity, the designation period is 5 years beginning with the day
after the day on which the SMS decision notice is given.

18.2

See—

18.2.a

section 104  for circumstances in which the designation period may be
extended, and

18.2.b

sections  10  and  14 (1) (b)  for circumstances in which a designation may be
revoked before the end of the designation period.

#### Conduct requirements

##### Imposition of conduct requirements

###### Power to impose conduct requirements

19

19.1

The CMA may impose one or more conduct requirements on a designated
undertaking by giving the undertaking a notice containing the information set
out in section  21 .

19.2

The CMA may vary a conduct requirement imposed on a designated undertaking by
giving the undertaking a revised version of that notice.

19.3

“Conduct requirements” are requirements as to how the designated undertaking
must conduct itself in relation to a relevant digital activity, and references
in this Part to imposing conduct requirements include references to varying
conduct requirements in reliance on  subsection (2) .

19.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under  subsection (1)
or  (2) , the CMA must publish the notice.

19.5

The CMA may only impose a conduct requirement or a combination of conduct
requirements on a designated undertaking if it considers that it would be
proportionate to do so for the purposes of one or more of the following
objectives—

19.5.a

the fair dealing objective,

19.5.b

the open choices objective, and

19.5.c

the trust and transparency objective,

having regard to what the conduct requirement or combination of conduct
requirements is intended to achieve.

19.6

The fair dealing objective is that users or potential users of the relevant
digital activity are—

19.6.a

treated fairly, and

19.6.b

able to interact, whether directly or indirectly, with the undertaking on
reasonable terms.

19.7

The open choices objective is that users or potential users of the relevant
digital activity are able to choose freely and easily between the services or
digital content provided by the undertaking and services or digital content
provided by other undertakings.

19.8

The trust and transparency objective is that users or potential users of the
relevant digital activity have the information they require to enable them to—

19.8.a

understand the services or digital content provided by the undertaking through
the relevant digital activity, including the terms on which they are provided,
and

19.8.b

make properly informed decisions about whether and how they interact with the
undertaking in respect of the relevant digital activity.

19.9

A conduct requirement must be of a permitted type (see section  20 ).

19.10

Before imposing a conduct requirement or a combination of conduct requirements
on a designated undertaking, the CMA must have regard in particular to the
benefits for consumers that the CMA considers would likely result (directly or
indirectly) from the conduct requirement or combination of conduct
requirements.

19.11

A conduct requirement—

19.11.a

comes into force at a time determined by the CMA, and

19.11.b

ceases to have effect—

19.11.b.i

in accordance with a decision of the CMA to revoke the requirement (see
section  22 ), or

19.11.b.ii

subject to provision made in reliance on  section 17  (existing obligations),
when the designation to which the requirement relates ceases to have effect.

###### Permitted types of conduct requirement

20

20.1

Conduct requirements are of a permitted type if they are within subsection
(2)  or  (3) .

20.2

Requirements are within this subsection if they are for the purpose of
obliging a designated undertaking to—

20.2.a

trade on fair and reasonable terms;

20.2.b

have effective processes for handling complaints by and disputes with users or
potential users;

20.2.c

provide clear, relevant, accurate and accessible information about the
relevant digital activity to users or potential users;

20.2.d

give explanations, and a reasonable period of notice, to users or potential
users of the relevant digital activity, before making changes in relation to
the relevant digital activity where those changes are likely to have a
material impact on the users or potential users;

20.2.e

present to users or potential users any options or default settings in
relation to the relevant digital activity in a way that allows those users or
potential users to make informed and effective decisions in their own best
interests about those options or settings.

20.3

Requirements are within this subsection if they are for the purpose of
preventing a designated undertaking from—

20.3.a

applying discriminatory terms, conditions or policies to certain users or
potential users or certain descriptions of users or potential users;

20.3.b

using its position in relation to the relevant digital activity, including its
access to data relating to that activity, to treat its own products more
favourably than those of other undertakings;

20.3.c

carrying on activities other than the relevant digital activity in a way that
is likely to materially increase the undertaking’s market power, or materially
strengthen its position of strategic significance, in relation to the relevant
digital activity;

20.3.d

requiring or incentivising users or potential users of one of the designated
undertaking’s products to use one or more of the undertaking’s other products
alongside services or digital content the provision of which is, or is
comprised in, the relevant digital activity;

20.3.e

restricting interoperability between the relevant service or digital content
and products offered by other undertakings;

20.3.f

restricting whether or how users or potential users can use the relevant
digital activity;

20.3.g

using data unfairly;

20.3.h

restricting the ability of users or potential users to use products of other
undertakings.

20.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to modify
the permitted types of requirement.

20.5

Regulations under  subsection (4)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Content of notice imposing a conduct requirement

21

A notice under section  19 (1)  or  (2)  must include, in relation to each
conduct requirement or, as the case may be, each conduct requirement as
varied, a statement of—

21.a

the conduct requirement and the relevant digital activity to which it relates;

21.b

the CMA’s reasons for imposing the conduct requirement, including—

21.b.i

the objective for the purposes of which the CMA considers it is proportionate
to impose the conduct requirement (see  section 19 (5) ),

21.b.ii

the benefits that the CMA considers would likely result from the conduct
requirement (see section  19 (10) ), and

21.b.iii

the permitted type of requirement to which the CMA considers the conduct
requirement belongs (see section  20 );

21.c

when the conduct requirement comes into force;

21.d

the last day of the designation period for the designation to which the
conduct requirement relates;

21.e

how the conduct requirement interacts with any other conduct requirement that
has been imposed on the undertaking.

###### Revocation of conduct requirements

22

22.1

The CMA may revoke a conduct requirement with effect from such time as the CMA
may determine.

22.2

Where the CMA decides to revoke a conduct requirement it must give the
designated undertaking to which the requirement relates a notice specifying
when the revocation is to have effect.

22.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving the notice, the CMA must
publish the notice.

###### Transitional provision relating to conduct requirements etc

23

23.1

A notice under  section 19 (1)  or  (2)  (content of notice imposing a conduct
requirement), or under  section 22 (2)  (revocation of conduct requirements),
may include transitional, transitory or saving provision.

23.2

The fact that a conduct requirement ceases to have effect does not affect the
exercise of any digital markets functions in relation to a breach or possible
breach of that requirement.

###### Consultation in relation to a conduct requirement

24

24.1

Before imposing a conduct requirement on a designated undertaking, the CMA
must—

24.1.a

carry out a public consultation on the conduct requirement which it proposes
to impose, and

24.1.b

bring the public consultation to the attention of such persons as it considers
appropriate.

24.2

For the purposes of the consultation, the CMA must publish—

24.2.a

the conduct requirement which the CMA proposes to impose, or a description of
that requirement, and

24.2.b

a statement of the permitted type of requirement to which the CMA considers
the proposed conduct requirement belongs.

24.3

Consultation under subsection  (1)  may be carried out at the same time as
consultation under section  13  (consultation on proposed decision.

24.4

Before revoking a conduct requirement, the CMA must—

24.4.a

carry out a public consultation on the proposed revocation, and

24.4.b

bring the public consultation to the attention of such persons as it considers
appropriate.

###### Duty to keep conduct requirements under review

25

The CMA must keep under review, in relation to a designated undertaking—

25.a

whether to impose, vary or revoke a conduct requirement;

25.b

the extent to which it is complying with each conduct requirement to which it
is subject;

25.c

the effectiveness of each conduct requirement to which it is subject;

25.d

whether to take action in accordance with  sections 26  to 35  (enforcement of
conduct requirements) or  Chapter 7  (enforcement and appeals) in respect of
any breaches or suspected breaches of a conduct requirement.

##### Enforcement of conduct requirements

###### Power to begin a conduct investigation

26

26.1

The CMA may begin an investigation (a “conduct investigation”) where it has
reasonable grounds to suspect that an undertaking has breached a conduct
requirement.

26.2

A conduct investigation is an investigation into—

26.2.a

whether a breach has occurred, and

26.2.b

if it has, what action, if any, the CMA should take in relation to the breach.

26.3

When the CMA begins a conduct investigation it must give a notice (a “conduct
investigation notice”) to the undertaking which it suspects has breached a
conduct requirement.

26.4

The conduct investigation notice must—

26.4.a

state the conduct requirement which the CMA suspects has been breached;

26.4.b

describe the conduct which the CMA suspects constituted the breach;

26.4.c

state the period within which the undertaking may make representations in
relation to the conduct investigation (see subsection  (5) );

26.4.d

state the period by the end of which the CMA must give a notice to the
undertaking setting out its findings as a result of the conduct investigation
(see  section 30 (2) );

26.4.e

state the circumstances in which that period may be extended (see  section 104
);

26.4.f

state the effect of the following provisions—

26.4.f.i

section 28  (closing a conduct investigation without making a finding);

26.4.f.ii

section 30  (notice of findings);

26.4.f.iii

section 36  (commitments).

26.5

The period mentioned in  subsection (4) (c)  is such period as the CMA may
determine.

26.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a conduct investigation notice,
the CMA must publish the conduct investigation notice.

###### Consideration of representations

27

Before making a finding that an undertaking to which a conduct investigation
relates has breached or is breaching a conduct requirement, the CMA must
consider any representations that the undertaking makes in relation to the
conduct investigation.

###### Closing a conduct investigation without making a finding

28

28.1

The CMA may close a conduct investigation at any time without making a finding
as to whether or not a breach of a conduct requirement has occurred.

28.2

When the CMA decides to close a conduct investigation, the CMA must give the
undertaking to which the investigation related a notice to that effect.

28.3

The notice must—

28.3.a

describe the undertaking in respect of which the CMA began the investigation,

28.3.b

state the conduct requirement to which the investigation related, and

28.3.c

include the CMA’s reasons for closing the investigation.

28.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under subsection (2),
the CMA must publish the notice.

###### Countervailing benefits exemption

29

29.1

The CMA must close a conduct investigation under section  28  where
representations made by the undertaking to which the investigation relates
lead the CMA to consider that the countervailing benefits exemption applies.

29.2

The countervailing benefits exemption applies where—

29.2.a

the conduct to which the investigation relates gives rise to benefits to users
or potential users of the digital activity in respect of which the conduct
requirement in question applies,

29.2.b

those benefits outweigh any actual or likely detrimental impact on competition
resulting from a breach of the conduct requirement,

29.2.c

those benefits could not be realised without the conduct,

29.2.d

the conduct is proportionate to the realisation of those benefits, and

29.2.e

the conduct does not eliminate or prevent effective competition.

29.3

Where the CMA closes a conduct investigation as a result of  subsection (1) ,
the undertaking to which the decision relates is to be treated as if the CMA
had found that the conduct did not constitute a breach of the conduct
requirement.

###### Notice of findings

30

30.1

The CMA must give a notice to the undertaking to which a conduct investigation
relates setting out its findings as a result of the conduct investigation
(subject to subsection  (5) ).

30.2

The notice must be given on or before the last day of the period (the “conduct
investigation period”) of 6 months beginning with the day on which the conduct
investigation notice is given to the undertaking.

30.3

The notice must—

30.3.a

state whether or not the CMA has found that a breach has occurred, and

30.3.b

include reasons for the CMA’s findings.

30.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving the notice, the CMA must
publish the notice.

30.5

Subsection  (1)  does not apply—

30.5.a

where the CMA closes the conduct investigation under section  28 , or

30.5.b

in relation to any behaviour in respect of which the CMA has accepted a
commitment from the undertaking (see section  36 ).

###### Enforcement orders

31

31.1

Where the CMA finds, as a result of a conduct investigation, that an
undertaking has breached a conduct requirement, it may make an order (an
“enforcement order”) imposing on the undertaking such obligations as the CMA
considers appropriate for one or more of the following purposes—

31.1.a

in a case where the breach is ongoing, stopping the breach;

31.1.b

preventing the breach from happening again;

31.1.c

addressing any damage caused by the breach.

31.2

The CMA may vary an enforcement order by making a revised version of that
order.

31.3

An enforcement order may include transitional, transitory or saving provision.

31.4

An enforcement order must—

31.4.a

specify the breach to which it relates;

31.4.b

include the CMA’s reasons for imposing the obligations in the order.

31.5

The CMA may consult such persons as the CMA considers appropriate before
making an enforcement order (including a revised version of an order).

31.6

Where the CMA decides to make an enforcement order (other than an interim
enforcement order under section  32 ), it must do so as soon as reasonably
practicable after giving the undertaking a notice of its findings under
section  30 (1) .

31.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after making an enforcement order (including
a revised version of an order), the CMA must publish the order.

31.8

The CMA may consent to an undertaking acting in a way that would otherwise
constitute a breach of an enforcement order.

###### Interim enforcement orders

32

32.1

The CMA may make an enforcement order on an interim basis (an “interim
enforcement order”) in relation to a suspected breach of a conduct requirement
where—

32.1.a

the CMA has begun a conduct investigation in relation to the suspected breach,
and

32.1.b

the CMA considers that it is necessary to act on an interim basis—

32.1.b.i

to prevent significant damage to a particular person or category of person,

32.1.b.ii

to prevent conduct which could reduce the effectiveness of any other steps the
CMA might take in relation to the conduct requirement which it suspects the
undertaking has breached or is breaching, or

32.1.b.iii

to protect the public interest.

32.2

An interim enforcement order must specify the suspected breach to which it
relates.

32.3

Before making an interim enforcement order, the CMA must give the undertaking
to which it would relate an opportunity to make representations to it about
the order which it proposes to make.

32.4

But the duty in subsection  (3)  does not apply where the CMA considers that
compliance would substantially reduce the effectiveness of the order.

32.5

Where the CMA makes an interim enforcement order in relation to an undertaking
without complying with subsection  (3) , the CMA must, as soon as reasonably
practicable, give the undertaking a notice including—

32.5.a

the reasons for the CMA’s decision to make the interim enforcement order
without complying with subsection  (3) , and

32.5.b

the period within which the undertaking may make representations in relation
to the interim enforcement order (see  subsection (7) ).

32.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under subsection  (5)
, the CMA must publish the notice.

32.7

The period mentioned in subsection  (5) (b)  is such period as the CMA may
determine.

32.8

The CMA must consider representations which it receives following a notice
under subsection  (5)  as soon as reasonably practicable.

###### Duration of enforcement orders

33

33.1

An enforcement order (including a revised version of an order) comes into
force at such time as the CMA may specify in the order.

33.2

An interim enforcement order ceases to have effect—

33.2.a

when revoked under section  34 ,

33.2.b

subject to provision made in reliance on  section 17  (existing obligations),
when the designation to which it relates ceases to have effect, or

33.2.c

when one of the following events occurs in relation to the suspected breach to
which the order relates—

33.2.c.i

the CMA gives the undertaking a notice stating that the CMA has found that no
breach has occurred (see  section 30 );

33.2.c.ii

the CMA accepts a commitment from the undertaking (see  section 36 );

33.2.c.iii

the CMA makes an enforcement order (see  section 31 (1) );

33.2.c.iv

the CMA notifies the undertaking that it has decided not to make an
enforcement order that is not an interim enforcement order.

33.3

An enforcement order other than an interim enforcement order ceases to have
effect—

33.3.a

when revoked under section  34 , or

33.3.b

subject to provision made in reliance on  section 17  (existing obligations),
when the designation to which it relates ceases to have effect.

33.4

The fact that an enforcement order ceases to have effect does not affect the
exercise of any functions in relation to a breach or possible breach of that
order.

###### Revocation of enforcement orders

34

34.1

The CMA may revoke an enforcement order by giving a notice to that effect to
the undertaking to which the order applies.

34.2

The notice must include the reasons for the CMA’s decision to revoke the
enforcement order.

34.3

The notice may include transitional, transitory or saving provision in
relation to the revocation of the enforcement order.

34.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after revoking an enforcement order, the CMA
must publish the notice.

34.5

The CMA may consult such persons as the CMA considers appropriate on any
proposal to revoke an enforcement order.

###### Duty to keep enforcement orders under review

35

The CMA must keep under review—

35.a

the extent to which an undertaking to which it has given an enforcement order
is complying with that order,

35.b

the effectiveness of an enforcement order,

35.c

whether to vary or revoke an enforcement order,

35.d

where an enforcement order is revoked, whether to make a new enforcement
order, and

35.e

whether to take action in accordance with  Chapter 7  (enforcement and
appeals) in respect of an undertaking which does not comply with an
enforcement order.

##### Commitments relating to conduct requirements

###### Commitments

36

36.1

The CMA may accept an appropriate commitment from an undertaking subject to a
conduct investigation as to its behaviour in respect of a conduct requirement
to which the investigation relates.

36.2

A commitment is appropriate where the CMA considers that compliance with the
commitment by the undertaking would mean that it would not be necessary to
carry out a conduct investigation so far as relating to the behaviour to which
the commitment relates.

36.3

Following the acceptance of a commitment by the CMA as to the behaviour of an
undertaking—

36.3.a

the undertaking that gave the commitment must comply with it at all times when
it is in force, and

36.3.b

so far as relating to the behaviour, the CMA may not give a notice to the
undertaking under  section 30  (notice of findings).

36.4

The acceptance of a commitment does not prevent—

36.4.a

a conduct investigation from continuing so far as it relates to other
behaviour in relation to the same or a different conduct requirement, or

36.4.b

the CMA beginning a new conduct investigation in relation to the behaviour to
which the commitment relates where—

36.4.b.i

it has reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a material change of
circumstances since the commitment was accepted,

36.4.b.ii

it has reasonable grounds to suspect that the undertaking has not complied
with one or more of the terms of the commitment, or

36.4.b.iii

it has reasonable grounds to suspect that information which led it to accept
the commitment was incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular.

36.5

A commitment under  this section  comes into force when a notice of its
acceptance is published by the CMA.

36.6

A commitment under this section ceases to have effect—

36.6.a

subject to provision made in reliance on section  17  (existing obligations)—

36.6.a.i

in accordance with any terms of the commitment about when it is to cease to
have effect, or

36.6.a.ii

when the conduct requirement to which the commitment relates ceases to have
effect, or

36.6.b

when the undertaking is released from the requirement to comply with the
commitment.

36.7

The CMA may by notice accept a variation to a commitment from time to time
provided the commitment as varied would still be appropriate.

36.8

The CMA may release an undertaking from the requirement to comply with a
commitment where it considers that it would be appropriate to do so.

36.9

The fact that a commitment ceases to have effect does not affect the exercise
of any functions in relation to a breach or possible breach of that
commitment.

36.10

Schedule 1  makes provision about—

36.10.a

accepting, or accepting a variation of, a commitment, and

36.10.b

releasing an undertaking from the requirement to comply with a commitment,

for the purposes of this Chapter and  Chapter 4  (pro-competition orders).

###### Duty to keep commitments under review

37

The CMA must keep under review—

37.a

the appropriateness of a commitment or releasing an undertaking from a
commitment,

37.b

the extent to which an undertaking which has given a commitment is complying
with it, and

37.c

the appropriateness of taking further action in accordance with  Chapter 7
(enforcement and appeals) in respect of an undertaking which does not comply
with a commitment which it has given.

##### Final offer mechanism

###### Power to adopt final offer mechanism

38

38.1

Where the CMA considers that the following three conditions are met in
relation to a transaction between a designated undertaking and a third party,
the CMA may—

38.1.a

require the undertaking, and

38.1.b

invite the third party,

to submit to the CMA terms as to payment (“final offer payment terms”) which
the undertaking or, as the case may be, the third party regards as fair and
reasonable for the transaction.

38.2

The first condition is that the transaction is a transaction in which the
designated undertaking would—

38.2.a

provide goods or services to the third party, or

38.2.b

acquire goods or services from, or use goods or services of, the third party.

38.3

The second condition is that, by failing to agree fair and reasonable terms as
to payment for the transaction, the designated undertaking has breached an
enforcement order, other than an interim enforcement order, made in relation
to a breach of a conduct requirement of the type permitted by  section 20 (2)
(a)  (requirement to trade on fair and reasonable terms).

38.4

The third condition is that the CMA could not satisfactorily address the
breach within a reasonable time frame by exercising any of its other digital
markets functions.

38.5

In subsection  (1) , “ transaction ” means—

38.5.a

a future transaction, or

38.5.b

the future performance of an ongoing transaction,

whether in accordance with a contract or otherwise.

38.6

In sections  39  to  44 —

      “ the designated undertaking ” means the undertaking mentioned in
subsection (1) ;           “ the transaction ” means the transaction mentioned
in  subsection (1) ;           “ the third party ” means the third party
mentioned in  subsection (1) .

###### Collective submissions

39

39.1

Where the CMA considers that—

39.1.a

the conditions in section  38 (2) ,  (3)  and  (4)  are met in relation to a
single transaction between the designated undertaking and two or more third
parties, and

39.1.b

the third parties are capable of acting jointly in relation to final offer
payment terms relating to the transaction,

the CMA may exercise the power in section  38 (1)  to invite the third parties
(the “joined third parties”) to make a single submission to the CMA of final
offer payment terms that the joined third parties collectively regard as fair
and reasonable for the transaction.

39.2

Where the CMA proceeds in reliance on  subsection (1) , sections  40  to  44
apply as if—

39.2.a

in section  40 (8)  references to “the third party” were to any one or more of
the joined third parties;

39.2.b

all other references to “the third party” were to the joined third parties.

39.3

Where the CMA considers that—

39.3.a

the conditions in section  38 (2) ,  (3)  and  (4)  are met in relation to two
or more transactions between the designated undertaking and two or more third
parties,

39.3.b

the same terms as to payment are capable of applying to the transactions, and

39.3.c

the third parties are capable of acting jointly in relation to final offer
payment terms relating to the transactions,

the CMA may exercise the power in section  38 (1)  to invite the third parties
(the “grouped third parties”) to make a single submission to the CMA of final
offer payment terms that the grouped third parties collectively regard as fair
and reasonable for the transactions (the “grouped transactions”).

39.4

Where the CMA proceeds in reliance on  subsection (3) , sections  40  to  44
apply as if—

39.4.a

in the following provisions, references to “the third party” were to any one
or more of the grouped third parties—

39.4.a.i

section  40 (8) ;

39.4.a.ii

section  41 (2) (b) ;

39.4.a.iii

section  42 (1) (b) ;

39.4.a.iv

section  43 (2) ;

39.4.b

all other references to “the third party” were to the grouped third parties;

39.4.c

in section  43 (1)  and  (2) , the reference to “the transaction” were to any
one or more of the grouped transactions;

39.4.d

all other references to “the transaction” were to the grouped transactions.

###### Final offer mechanism

40

40.1

The power conferred by  section 38 (1)  is to be exercised by giving a notice
(a “final offer initiation notice”) to the designated undertaking and the
third party.

40.2

The final offer initiation notice must—

40.2.a

specify the designated undertaking, the third party and the digital activity
in respect of which the power is being exercised;

40.2.b

describe the breach of the enforcement order in relation to which the second
condition in  section 38  is met;

40.2.c

summarise the transaction;

40.2.d

specify a date (the “submission date”) on or before which final offer payment
terms are to be submitted to the CMA;

40.2.e

state the period by the end of which the CMA must make any final offer order
(see  section 41 (3) );

40.2.f

state the circumstances in which that period may be extended (see  section 104
).

40.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a final offer initiation
notice, the CMA must publish a statement which—

40.3.a

includes the information mentioned in  subsection (2) , and

40.3.b

if the CMA is considering taking any other action relating to any underlying
cause of the breach of the enforcement order, includes a summary of, and
explanation for considering, that action.

40.4

After giving a final offer initiation notice, the CMA may—

40.4.a

change its view of the transaction or the third party, provided that the new
transaction or third party remains substantially the same as the previous
transaction or third party,

40.4.b

revise any list of joined third parties or grouped third parties, or

40.4.c

change the submission date.

40.5

The powers conferred by  subsection (4)  are to be exercised by giving a
revised version of the final offer initiation notice to the designated
undertaking and the third party.

40.6

Where the power conferred by  subsection (4) (b)  is being exercised, the
reference in  subsection (5)  to “ the third party ” includes each person that
was a joined third party or a grouped third party prior to the exercise of the
power or that is to be a joined third party or a grouped third party after the
exercise of the power.

40.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a revised version of a final
offer initiation notice, the CMA must publish a statement summarising the
contents of the revised notice.

40.8

To facilitate the submission of final offer payment terms, the CMA may (among
other things)—

40.8.a

use an information notice to require that the designated undertaking or the
third party give information to the CMA (see section  69 );

40.8.b

share information between the designated undertaking and the third party in
accordance with section 241 of EA 2002 (statutory functions);

40.8.c

specify the form or manner in which final offer payment terms must be
submitted.

###### Final offers: outcome

41

41.1

This section applies where—

41.1.a

the CMA has exercised its power under  section 38 (1) , and

41.1.b

either—

41.1.b.i

the CMA has received final offer payment terms from both the designated
undertaking and the third party, or

41.1.b.ii

the CMA has received final offer payment terms from either the designated
undertaking or the third party (but not both), and the submission date has
passed.

41.2

The CMA must, unless  section 43 (1)  applies, make an order (a “final offer
order”) requiring that final offer payment terms it has received from the
designated undertaking or the third party are to be given effect for the
purposes of—

41.2.a

the transaction, and

41.2.b

any transaction between the designated undertaking and the third party which
is substantially the same as the transaction.

41.3

The CMA must comply with subsection  (2)  on or before the last day of the
period (the “final offer period”) of 6 months beginning with the day on which
the final offer initiation notice is given to the designated undertaking and
the third party.

41.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to modify
the length of the final offer period.

41.5

Regulations under  subsection (4)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Final offer orders: supplementary

42

42.1

A final offer order must impose on the designated undertaking such obligations
as the CMA considers appropriate for the purpose of—

42.1.a

securing compliance with the requirement imposed by virtue of  section 41 (2)
, and

42.1.b

preventing the designated undertaking from making an agreement with the third
party which conflicts with that requirement.

42.2

At the same time as making a final offer order, the CMA must give the
designated undertaking and the third party a notice—

42.2.a

summarising the transaction,

42.2.b

including the reasons for the order, and

42.2.c

enclosing a copy of the order.

42.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after making a final offer order, the CMA
must publish a statement summarising the contents of the final offer order and
the notice given under subsection  (2) .

###### Decision not to make final offer order

43

43.1

The CMA may decide not to make a final offer order in relation to the
transaction where it has reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a
material change of circumstances since the final offer initiation notice was
given.

43.2

For the purposes of  this section  and  section 44 (3)  a material change of
circumstances includes an agreement between the designated undertaking and the
third party with respect to terms as to payment in relation to the
transaction.

43.3

Where the CMA decides not to make a final offer order, it must give a notice
to that effect to the designated undertaking and the third party.

43.4

The notice must include the reasonable grounds referred to in subsection  (1)
.

43.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under subsection  (3)
, the CMA must publish a statement summarising the contents of the notice.

###### Duration and revocation of final offer orders

44

44.1

A final offer order comes into force at such time as the CMA may specify in
the order.

44.2

A final offer order ceases to have effect—

44.2.a

when revoked under this section, or

44.2.b

subject to provision made in reliance on  section 17  (existing obligations),
when the designation to which it relates ceases to have effect.

44.3

The CMA may revoke, or partially revoke, a final offer order where it has
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a material change of
circumstances since the final offer order was made.

44.4

Where the CMA decides to revoke, or partially revoke, a final offer order, it
must give a notice to that effect to the designated undertaking and the third
party.

44.5

The notice must include the reasons for the CMA’s decision.

44.6

The notice may include transitional, transitory or saving provision in
relation to the revocation, or partial revocation, of the final offer order.

44.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after revoking, or partially revoking, a
final offer order, the CMA must publish a statement summarising the contents
of the notice revoking, or partially revoking, the order.

44.8

The fact that a final offer order ceases to have effect does not affect the
exercise of any digital markets functions in relation to a breach or possible
breach of that order.

###### Duty to keep final offer orders under review

45

The CMA must keep under review—

45.a

the extent to which an undertaking to which it has given a final offer order
is complying with that order,

45.b

the effectiveness of the final offer order,

45.c

whether to revoke the final offer order, and

45.d

whether to take action in accordance with  Chapter 7  (enforcement and
appeals) in respect of an undertaking which does not comply with a final offer
order.

#### Pro-competition interventions

##### Power to make pro-competition interventions

46

46.1

The CMA may make a pro-competition intervention (a “PCI”) in relation to a
designated undertaking where, following a PCI investigation (see section  47
), the CMA considers that—

46.1.a

a factor or combination of factors relating to a relevant digital activity is
having an adverse effect on competition, and

46.1.b

it would be proportionate to make the PCI for the purposes of remedying,
mitigating or preventing the adverse effect on competition.

46.2

In considering whether to make a PCI, and the form and content of any PCI, the
CMA may have regard to any benefits to UK users or UK customers that the CMA
considers have resulted, or may be expected to result, from a factor or
combination of factors that is having an adverse effect on competition.

46.3

A PCI may take the form of one or both of the following—

46.3.a

an order imposing on the designated undertaking requirements as to how the
undertaking must conduct itself, in relation to the relevant digital activity
or otherwise (a “pro-competition order”: see section  51 );

46.3.b

recommendations made by the CMA to any person exercising functions of a public
nature about steps which the CMA considers the person ought to take in respect
of the designated undertaking or the digital activity, or otherwise.

46.4

A PCI may include provision for the purposes of remedying, mitigating or
preventing any detrimental effect on UK users or UK customers that the CMA
considers has resulted, or may be expected to result, from the adverse effect
on competition to which the PCI relates.

46.5

A factor or combination of factors relating to a digital activity has an
adverse effect on competition where it prevents, restricts or distorts
competition in connection with the relevant digital activity in the United
Kingdom.

##### Power to begin a PCI investigation etc

47

47.1

The CMA may begin an investigation (a “PCI investigation”) in relation to a
designated undertaking where it has reasonable grounds to consider that a
factor or combination of factors relating to a relevant digital activity may
be having an adverse effect on competition.

47.2

A PCI investigation is an investigation to enable the CMA to determine—

47.2.a

whether to make a PCI, and

47.2.b

if it concludes that it should make a PCI, the form and content of that PCI.

47.3

The CMA may begin a PCI investigation in relation to a designated undertaking
even if it has previously made a decision not to make a PCI in respect of that
undertaking.

##### Procedure relating to PCI investigations

48

48.1

Where the CMA begins a PCI investigation it must give the designated
undertaking to which the investigation relates a notice (a “PCI investigation
notice”).

48.2

The PCI investigation notice must state—

48.2.a

the reasonable grounds mentioned in section  47 (1) ;

48.2.b

the purpose and scope of the PCI investigation;

48.2.c

the period by the end of which the CMA must give the undertaking a notice
setting out its decision as a result of the investigation (see  section 50 (1)
);

48.2.d

the circumstances in which that period may be extended (see section  104 ).

48.3

The CMA may give the undertaking one or more revised versions of the PCI
investigation notice if it changes its view of the purpose and scope of the
investigation, provided that the purpose and scope of the investigation
remains substantially the same.

48.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a PCI investigation notice or a
revised version of the PCI investigation notice, the CMA must publish the
notice or the revised version of the notice.

##### Consultation on proposed PCI decision

49

49.1

Before making a final decision (a “PCI decision”) on whether to make a PCI as
a result of a PCI investigation, the CMA must—

49.1.a

carry out a public consultation on its proposed decision, and

49.1.b

bring the public consultation to the attention of such persons as it considers
appropriate.

49.2

For the purposes of the consultation the CMA must publish a statement setting
out—

49.2.a

the CMA’s findings as a result of the investigation, and

49.2.b

a description of any PCI which the CMA is considering making.

##### PCI decision

50

50.1

The CMA must give the designated undertaking to which a PCI investigation
relates a notice of the PCI decision resulting from the investigation on or
before the last day of the period (the “PCI investigation period”) of 9 months
beginning with the day on which the PCI investigation notice is given to the
undertaking.

50.2

The notice must—

50.2.a

state the CMA’s findings as a result of the PCI investigation,

50.2.b

describe any PCI which the CMA intends to make, and

50.2.c

include reasons for the CMA’s findings and decision.

50.3

The giving of a revised version of the PCI investigation notice under  section
48 (3)  does not change the day on which the PCI investigation period begins.

50.4

The CMA must make any PCI within the period of 4 months beginning with the day
on which the CMA gives the notice under subsection  (1) .

50.5

The CMA may extend the period mentioned in subsection  (4)  by up to 2 months
where it considers that there are special reasons for doing so.

50.6

Where the CMA decides not to make a PCI having previously indicated in a
notice under subsection  (1)  that it intended to make a PCI, the CMA must
give the undertaking a further notice—

50.6.a

stating the CMA’s decision, and

50.6.b

including reasons for the decision.

50.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under subsection  (1)
or  (6) , the CMA must publish a copy of the notice.

##### Pro-competition orders

51

51.1

A pro-competition order may include any provision that may be included in an
enforcement order under section 161 of EA 2002 (final orders following market
investigation references; and see section 164 of and Schedule 8 to EA 2002 on
the provision that may be included).

51.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , Schedule 8 to EA 2002 (provision that
may be contained in certain enforcement orders) has effect as if—

51.2.a

the reference in paragraph 8(2) to “the relevant report” were to the notice
under section  50 (1)  of this Act;

51.2.b

paragraphs 20A to 20BA were omitted.

51.3

A pro-competition order may include provision imposing requirements on an
undertaking on a trial basis for the purpose of assisting the CMA in
establishing requirements that would be effective in remedying, mitigating or
preventing—

51.3.a

the adverse effect on competition to which the order relates;

51.3.b

any detrimental effect on UK users or UK customers resulting from, or expected
to result from, the adverse effect on competition.

51.4

The provision that may be made in reliance on subsection  (3)  includes
provision requiring an undertaking to act differently in respect of different
users or customers (and such provision may be by reference to a description of
users or customers, to absolute numbers of users or customers, or to a
proportion of the undertaking’s total number of users or customers).

51.5

A pro-competition order must contain provision in accordance with section  55
(3)  (duty to ensure order contains date of next review).

51.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after making a pro-competition order, the
CMA must publish the order.

##### Replacement of pro-competition orders

52

52.1

The CMA may, by making a further pro-competition order, replace a pro-
competition order where it considers that it is appropriate to do so, having
regard in particular to—

52.1.a

the effectiveness of the pro-competition order, or of particular provisions in
the pro-competition order, in remedying, mitigating or preventing the adverse
effect on competition and, where applicable, any detrimental effect on UK
users or UK customers identified in the PCI investigation, and

52.1.b

any change of circumstances since the pro-competition order was made.

52.2

The CMA may, in particular, replace a pro-competition order so as to—

52.2.a

replace requirements imposed by virtue of that order on a trial basis, or

52.2.b

impose requirements on an undertaking that are similar to or informed by one
or more requirements previously imposed on that undertaking, or on a different
undertaking, by virtue of another pro-competition order on a trial basis.

52.3

In this Chapter—

52.3.a

references to making a replacement order are to revoking a pro-competition
order (see section  53 ) made following a PCI investigation and making a new
pro-competition order in reliance on the findings of that PCI investigation,
and

52.3.b

references to a “replacement order” are to a pro-competition order made in
reliance on subsection  (1) .

##### Duration and revocation etc of pro-competition orders

53

53.1

A pro-competition order comes into force at such time as the CMA may specify
in the order.

53.2

A pro-competition order ceases to have effect—

53.2.a

when revoked under this section, or

53.2.b

subject to provision made in reliance on  section 17  (existing obligations),
when the designation to which it relates ceases to have effect.

53.3

The CMA may revoke a pro-competition order where it considers that it is
appropriate to do so, having regard in particular to any change of
circumstances since the pro-competition order was made.

53.4

Where the CMA decides to revoke a pro-competition order, it must give a notice
to that effect to the designated undertaking to which the order relates.

53.5

The notice may include transitional, transitory or saving provision in
relation to the revocation of the pro-competition order.

53.6

The CMA must publish the notice as soon as reasonably practicable after giving
it.

53.7

Where a pro-competition order resulting from a PCI investigation is revoked
without being replaced, the CMA may not make a new pro-competition order in
reliance on the same PCI investigation.

53.8

The fact that a pro-competition order ceases to have effect does not affect
the exercise of any functions in relation to a breach or possible breach of
that order.

##### Consultation

54

54.1

The CMA must carry out a public consultation on the terms of any pro-
competition order before making it (subject to  subsection (4) ).

54.2

The duty to consult imposed by subsection  (1)  may be satisfied by
consultation on a proposed PCI decision in a case where—

54.2.a

a draft pro-competition order was published for the purposes of that
consultation, and

54.2.b

the CMA proposes to make a pro-competition order that is the same or
materially the same as the draft pro-competition order.

54.3

Before revoking a pro-competition order, the CMA must (subject to subsection
(4) )—

54.3.a

carry out a public consultation on the proposed revocation, and

54.3.b

bring the public consultation to the attention of such persons as it considers
appropriate.

54.4

The duties in subsections  (1)  and  (3)  do not apply in relation to the
making of a replacement order which, in the opinion of the CMA, is not
materially different from the order which it replaces.

##### Duty to review pro-competition orders etc

55

55.1

The CMA must carry out a review of a pro-competition order, including a
replacement order, to determine whether to—

55.1.a

revoke it without making a replacement order, or

55.1.b

make a replacement order.

55.2

Each time the CMA makes a pro-competition order, including a replacement
order, it must identify a date by which it will carry out the review under
subsection  (1) .

55.3

The CMA must secure that the date is specified in the order.

55.4

The CMA must keep under review—

55.4.a

the effectiveness of a pro-competition order;

55.4.b

the extent to which an undertaking subject to a pro-competition order is
complying with it;

55.4.c

whether to take action in accordance with  Chapter 7  (enforcement and
appeals) in respect of any undertaking that breaches a pro-competition order.

##### Commitments

56

56.1

The CMA may accept an appropriate commitment from a designated undertaking as
to its conduct in respect of an adverse effect on competition or a detrimental
effect on UK users or UK customers that the CMA considers has resulted, or may
be expected to result, from an adverse effect on competition.

56.2

A commitment is appropriate where the CMA considers that compliance with the
commitment by the undertaking would contribute to or otherwise be of use in
remedying, mitigating or preventing—

56.2.a

the adverse effect on competition, or

56.2.b

the detrimental effect on UK users or UK customers.

56.3

Following the acceptance of a commitment by the CMA as to the conduct of an
undertaking—

56.3.a

the undertaking that gave the commitment must comply with it at all times when
it is in force, and

56.3.b

so far as relating to the conduct, the CMA may give a notice to the
undertaking—

56.3.b.i

ending a PCI investigation (if it has begun one) without making a PCI
decision, or

56.3.b.ii

changing the scope of a PCI investigation.

56.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a notice under  subsection (3)
(b) , the CMA must publish a statement summarising the contents of the notice.

56.5

The acceptance of a commitment does not prevent—

56.5.a

a PCI investigation from continuing so far as it relates to conduct other than
that to which the commitment relates, or

56.5.b

the CMA beginning a new PCI investigation in relation to the conduct to which
the commitment relates where it has reasonable grounds—

56.5.b.i

to believe that there has been a material change of circumstances since the
commitment was accepted,

56.5.b.ii

to suspect that the undertaking has not complied with one or more of the terms
of the commitment, or

56.5.b.iii

to suspect that information which led it to accept the commitment was
incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular.

56.6

A commitment under  this section  comes into force when a notice of its
acceptance is published by the CMA.

56.7

A commitment under this section ceases to have effect—

56.7.a

subject to provision made in reliance on section  17  (existing obligations)—

56.7.a.i

in accordance with any terms of the commitment about when it is to cease to
have effect, or

56.7.a.ii

when the designation to which the commitment relates ceases to have effect, or

56.7.b

when the undertaking is released from the requirement to comply with the
commitment.

56.8

The following provisions apply in relation to commitments under  this section
as they apply in relation to commitments under section  36 —

56.8.a

subsections  (7)  to  (10)  of section  36 ;

56.8.b

section  37 .

#### Mergers

##### Duty to report possible mergers etc

57

57.1

A relevant person (in this Chapter, “P”) must report an event to which
subsection (2)  or  (3)  applies (a “reportable event”) to the CMA before the
event takes place.

57.2

This subsection  applies to an event where—

57.2.a

the event results in P having qualifying status (see  section 58 ) in respect
of shares or voting rights in relation to a UK-connected body corporate, and

57.2.b

the value of all consideration (see  section 59 ) provided by P, whether
before or as part of the event, for shares or voting rights in the UK-
connected body corporate is at least £25 million.

57.3

This subsection  applies to an event which consists of the formation by P and
at least one other person of a body corporate (in this Chapter, a “joint
venture vehicle”) where—

57.3.a

P expects or intends that the joint venture vehicle will be a UK-connected
body corporate,

57.3.b

P has qualifying status in respect of shares or voting rights in relation to
the joint venture vehicle, and

57.3.c

the total value of—

57.3.c.i

all capital and assets contributed by P to the joint venture vehicle when it
is formed, and

57.3.c.ii

all other consideration provided by P, whether directly or indirectly, in
relation to the formation of the joint venture vehicle,

is at least £25 million.

57.4

In this Chapter, “ relevant person ” means—

57.4.a

a designated undertaking, or

57.4.b

where a designated undertaking is part of a group, any member of that group.

57.5

In this Chapter, a “UK-connected body corporate” is any body corporate
(wherever established or recognised) which—

57.5.a

carries on activities in the United Kingdom, or

57.5.b

supplies goods or services (whether for consideration or otherwise) to a
person or persons in the United Kingdom.

57.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , anything done by a subsidiary of a body
corporate is to be treated as being done by the body corporate.

57.7

The reference in  subsection (3)  to an “other person” is to a person who is
not—

57.7.a

the designated undertaking or part of the designated undertaking, or

57.7.b

where the designated undertaking is part of a group, a member of that group.

57.8

The duty to report an event under subsection  (1)  is subject to provision
made by or under regulations under  section 67 .

57.9

For steps that the CMA may take in relation to a possible merger, see—

57.9.a

section 33 of EA 2002 (duty to make references in relation to anticipated
mergers), and

57.9.b

section 72 of that Act (initial enforcement orders).

##### Qualifying status

58

58.1

For the purposes of section  57 (2) , an event results in P having qualifying
status in respect of shares or voting rights in relation to a UK-connected
body corporate where the event results in the percentage of the shares or, as
the case may be, the voting rights that P holds in the body corporate
increasing—

58.1.a

from less than 15% to 15% or more,

58.1.b

from 25% or less to more than 25%, or

58.1.c

from 50% or less to more than 50%.

58.2

For the purposes of section  57 (3) , P has qualifying status in respect of
shares or voting rights in relation to a joint venture vehicle where the event
results in P holding at least 15% of the shares or, as the case may be, voting
rights in the joint venture vehicle.

58.3

In subsections  (1)  and  (2) , references to holding a percentage of shares
are—

58.3.a

in the case of a body corporate that has a share capital, to holding shares
comprised in the issued share capital of the body corporate of a nominal value
(in aggregate) of that percentage of the share capital,

58.3.b

in the case of a body corporate that does not have a share capital, to holding
a right to a share of that percentage of the capital or profits of the body
corporate, and

58.3.c

in the case of a limited liability partnership, to holding a right to a share
of that percentage of any surplus assets of the partnership on a winding up.

58.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) (c) , to the extent that rights to share
in any surplus assets of the limited liability partnership on a winding up are
not expressly provided for, each member of the partnership is to be treated as
holding the right to an equal share of such assets.

58.5

In subsections  (1)  and  (2) , references to voting rights are—

58.5.a

in the case of a body corporate that has a share capital, to the rights
conferred on shareholders in respect of their shares to vote at general
meetings of the body corporate on all or substantially all matters, and

58.5.b

in the case of a body corporate that does not have a share capital, to the
rights conferred on members to vote at general meetings of the body corporate
on all or substantially all matters,

and, in the case of a body corporate that does not have general meetings at
which matters are decided by such votes, include any rights in relation to the
body corporate that have the equivalent effect.

58.6

A person is to be treated for the purposes of this Chapter as acquiring an
interest or right (to the extent that the person would not otherwise be
regarded as doing so) where the interest or right becomes treated as held by
the person by virtue of  Schedule 2 .

##### Value of consideration

59

59.1

The references in section  57 (2) (b)  to the value of all consideration
provided by P for shares or voting rights in a UK-connected body corporate is
a reference to the value of all consideration provided by P, whether directly
or indirectly, for shares or voting rights in the body corporate in all
transactions which result in P holding shares or voting rights in the body
corporate (whether or not the transaction is an event within section  57 (2)
).

59.2

In this Chapter, references to “consideration” are to fees, remuneration,
assets of any description, liabilities assumed and any other kind of
consideration, however provided, and include conditional and deferred
consideration.

59.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about how the
value of—

59.3.a

consideration,

59.3.b

capital, or

59.3.c

assets,

is to be calculated for the purposes of this Chapter.

59.4

The Secretary of State must consult the CMA before making regulations under
subsection (3) .

59.5

Regulations under  subsection (3)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Content of report etc

60

60.1

The CMA must by notice make provision setting out—

60.1.a

the information which a report for the purposes of  section 57 (1)  must
contain;

60.1.b

the form in which such a report must be made.

60.2

The notice may not require a report to contain information other than
information which the CMA considers necessary to allow it to determine whether
to—

60.2.a

begin an investigation for the purposes of deciding whether to make a
reference under section 33 of EA 2002 in relation to a reportable event, or

60.2.b

make an initial enforcement order under section 72 of that Act in relation to
a reportable event.

60.3

The CMA may from time to time replace the notice.

60.4

The CMA must publish any notice or replacement notice which it makes under
this section .

60.5

The CMA must consult—

60.5.a

the Secretary of State, and

60.5.b

such other persons as it considers appropriate,

before making or replacing a notice under  this section .

##### Application of the duty to report etc

61

61.1

Two or more persons may comply with the duty in  section 57 (1)  by making a
joint report to the CMA.

61.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, where a designated undertaking is part of a
group—

61.2.a

anything which a member of a group does or fails to do is to be treated as
being done or not done by each member of the group;

61.2.b

each member of a group is to be treated as providing the combined
consideration provided by all members of the group;

61.2.c

each member of a group is to be treated as holding the combined interests or
rights of all members of the group.

61.3

Schedule 2 makes further provision about cases in which a person is to be
treated for the purposes of this Chapter as holding an interest or right.

61.4

The duty to make a report under  section 57 (1)  does not apply—

61.4.a

in relation to a reportable event which does not differ in any material
respect from an event which has already been reported under  section 57 (1) ;

61.4.b

in relation to a reportable event so far as it consists of “notified
arrangements” within the meaning of section 96(6) of EA 2002;

61.4.c

in relation to a reportable event so far as the CMA has informed P that it has
begun an investigation for the purposes of deciding whether it has to make a
reference under section 33 of EA 2002 (duty to make references in relation to
anticipated mergers) in relation to a matter that does not differ in any
material respect from the reportable event;

61.4.d

in relation to a reportable event so far as the Secretary of State has given
the CMA an intervention notice under section 42 of EA 2002 (intervention by
the Secretary of State in certain public interest cases) in relation to a
relevant merger situation that does not differ in any material respect from
the reportable event;

61.4.e

in relation to a reportable event so far as the Secretary of State has given
the CMA a special intervention notice under section 59 of EA 2002
(intervention by the Secretary of State in special public interest cases) in
relation to a special merger situation that does not differ in any material
respect from the reportable event.

61.5

This Chapter does not require any steps to be taken in relation to an event
where, after it has been reported to the CMA—

61.5.a

the Secretary of State gives the CMA an intervention notice under section 42
of EA 2002 in relation to a relevant merger situation that does not differ in
any material respect from the event;

61.5.b

the Secretary of State gives the CMA a special intervention notice under
section 59 of EA 2002 in relation to a special merger situation that does not
differ in any material respect from the event;

61.5.c

the CMA makes an initial enforcement order under section 72 of EA 2002
imposing obligations, prohibitions or restrictions in relation to the event;

61.5.d

the undertaking to which the event relates ceases to be a designated
undertaking.

##### Acceptance of report

62

62.1

Where the CMA receives a report under  section 57 (1) , the CMA must, within
the period of 5 working days beginning with the first working day after the
day on which it receives the report, give a notice to the person that made the
report confirming whether the CMA accepts that the report is sufficient.

62.2

Where the CMA does not accept that a report is sufficient it must, in its
notice under  subsection (1) , include reasons for its decision.

62.3

The CMA may not decide that a report is not sufficient where the report—

62.3.a

contains all information required by notice under section  60 (1) (a) , and

62.3.b

is made in the form required by notice under section  60 (1) (b) .

62.4

A person who makes a report under  section 57 (1)  may withdraw that report at
any time before the CMA gives notice that it has accepted that the report is
sufficient.

62.5

Where a report is withdrawn, this Chapter applies as if the event to which it
related had not been reported to the CMA.

##### Delay to possible mergers etc

63

63.1

A person to whom the duty in  section 57 (1)  applies in relation to a
reportable event must not allow the event to take place—

63.1.a

without a report in relation to the event having been given to the CMA under
section 57 (1) , or

63.1.b

before the end of the waiting period in relation to the event.

63.2

The waiting period in relation to a reportable event is the period of 5
working days beginning with the first working day after the day on which the
CMA gives the person that made a report a notice under  section 62 (1)
confirming that the CMA accepts that the report relating to the event is
sufficient.

63.3

If a reportable event takes place in contravention of  subsection (1) , each
person to whom the duty in  section 57 (1)  applied in relation to the event
is to be treated as having breached  subsection (1) .

63.4

The CMA may—

63.4.a

give its consent to a reportable event happening before the end of the waiting
period;

63.4.b

revoke that consent before the reportable event happens.

63.5

Subsection (1)  does not apply in relation to a reportable event where the CMA
gives and does not revoke consent under subsection  (4)  in relation to a
reportable event.

63.6

Section 95 of EA 2002 (rights to enforce statutory restrictions) applies in
relation to the obligation to comply with subsection  (1)  as it applies in
relation to the obligation to comply with section 77(2) or (3) or 78(2) of
that Act.

##### Timing of a reportable event

64

Where a reportable event results from an agreement providing for P to acquire
shares or voting rights, or to form a joint venture vehicle together with at
least one other person, the event is to be treated as taking place for the
purposes of  section 57 (1)  and  section 63 (1)  when P becomes
unconditionally obliged to acquire the shares or voting rights, or to form the
joint venture vehicle.

##### Authorisation for one person to act for another

65

65.1

P may authorise another person to make a report under  section 57 (1)  and
receive the notice under  section 62 (1)  which relates to the report on P’s
behalf by giving a notice of the authorisation to the CMA.

65.2

P may revoke an authorisation made under this section by giving a notice to
that effect to the CMA.

65.3

A notice under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  must be signed by an officer of P.

65.4

In this section, references to an “officer” of an undertaking are to an
officer of a body corporate that is, or is comprised in, the undertaking.

##### Applications for review of decisions relating to mergers

66

Section 120 of EA 2002 (review of decisions under Part 3 of EA 2002: mergers)
applies in relation to a decision made by the CMA in connection with its
functions under this Chapter, other than a decision about the imposition of a
penalty under section  85 (4)  or  87 , as it applies in relation to decisions
listed in subsection (1A) of that section.

##### Regulations about duty to report

67

67.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the duty to
report a reportable event.

67.2

The Secretary of State must consult the CMA before making regulations under
subsection (1) .

67.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may (among other things) make provision—

67.3.a

varying, adding or removing circumstances in which the duty to make a report
applies;

67.3.b

varying the period in  section 62 (1) ;

67.3.c

varying the waiting period in  section 63 ;

67.3.d

about exemptions from the duty to make a report;

67.3.e

varying, adding or removing circumstances in which one person may act on
behalf of another under  section 65 ;

67.3.f

modifying how  section 332  applies for the purposes of this Chapter or
Schedule 2 ;

67.3.g

conferring functions on the CMA in relation to the duty to report, including
power to make provision by notice or general or specific directions about a
matter mentioned in  paragraph (d) ;

67.3.h

amending this Chapter or  Schedule 2 .

67.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  that contain provision made in reliance on
any of paragraphs  (a) ,  (b) ,  (c) ,  (d) ,  (e)  or  (h)  of subsection
(3) , whether alone or with other provision, are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

67.5

Any other regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the negative
procedure.

##### Duty to keep compliance under review

68

The CMA must keep under review—

68.a

the extent to which persons comply with provisions made by, under or by virtue
of this Chapter, and

68.b

the appropriateness of taking action—

68.b.i

in accordance with section 95 of EA 2002 (rights to enforce statutory
restrictions) in respect of any person to whom section  63 (1)  applies, and

68.b.ii

in accordance with  Chapter 7  (enforcement and appeals) in respect of any
person that does not comply with provisions made by, under or by virtue of
this Chapter.

#### Investigatory powers etc and compliance reports

##### Investigatory powers etc

###### Power to require information

69

69.1

For the purpose of exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, any of its
digital markets functions, the CMA may require a person (“ P ”) to give
specified information to it where it considers that the information is
relevant to a digital markets function.

69.2

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  is to be exercised by giving P a
notice (an “information notice”).

69.3

The CMA must include in an information notice—

69.3.a

the time and place at which the specified information must be given to the
CMA;

69.3.b

the manner and form in which the information must be given to the CMA;

69.3.c

information about the possible consequences of not complying with the notice.

69.4

The power under  this section  to require P to give information to the CMA
includes the power to—

69.4.a

take copies of or extracts from information;

69.4.b

require P to obtain or generate information;

69.4.c

require P to collect or retain information that they would not otherwise
collect or retain;

69.4.d

if any specified information is not given to the CMA, require P to state, to
the best of their knowledge and belief, both where that information is and why
it has not been given to the CMA.

69.5

For the purposes of  subsection (4) (b) , the CMA may include in an
information notice—

69.5.a

a requirement for P to vary their usual conduct (whether in relation to some
or all users or potential users of any service or digital content that P
provides);

69.5.b

a requirement for P to perform a specified demonstration or test.

69.6

In this section, “ specified ” means—

69.6.a

specified, or described, in the information notice, or

69.6.b

falling within a category which is specified, or described, in the information
notice.

69.7

The powers conferred by this section are exercisable in relation to
information whether it is stored within or outside the United Kingdom.

###### Requirement to name a senior manager

70

70.1

Where the CMA gives an information notice to a designated undertaking or an
undertaking that is the subject of a breach investigation, the CMA may include
in the notice a requirement that the undertaking must name, in response to the
notice, an individual who—

70.1.a

the undertaking considers to be a senior manager of the undertaking, and

70.1.b

may reasonably be expected to be in a position to ensure compliance with the
requirements of the notice.

70.2

Where the CMA imposes a requirement to name an individual, the information
notice must require the undertaking to inform the individual about the
consequences for the individual of any failure by the undertaking to comply
with the notice (see section  87 ).

70.3

An individual can be considered to be a senior manager of an undertaking only
if the individual plays a significant role in—

70.3.a

making decisions about how the undertaking’s relevant activities are to be
managed or organised, or

70.3.b

managing or organising the undertaking’s relevant activities.

70.4

An undertaking’s “relevant activities” are activities relating to the
undertaking’s compliance with requirements imposed on it by or under this
Part.

###### Power of access

71

71.1

The CMA may exercise the powers in  this section  where it considers that a
designated undertaking or an undertaking that is the subject of a breach
investigation—

71.1.a

has not complied with the requirements of an information notice (see  section
69 ), or

71.1.b

has not complied with the duty to assist a skilled person with the preparation
of a report (see  section 79 (12) ).

71.2

The CMA may access business premises, equipment, services, information or
individuals in order to—

71.2.a

supervise the obtaining, generation, collection or retention of information by
the undertaking,

71.2.b

observe the undertaking’s conduct in relation to users, or

71.2.c

observe a demonstration or test performed by the undertaking,

for the purpose of securing compliance with requirements imposed on the
undertaking under  section 69  or  section 79 (12) .

71.3

Where the CMA requires access under subsection  (2) , it must give the
undertaking a notice specifying—

71.3.a

the access that it requires,

71.3.b

a date by which the access must be provided, and

71.3.c

the manner in which the access must be provided (which may be remote).

71.4

The undertaking must give the CMA the access specified in the notice under
subsection (3) .

71.5

The powers conferred by this section are not exercisable in relation to
premises, equipment or individuals outside the United Kingdom.

71.6

But the powers conferred by this section are exercisable in relation to
information and services whether stored or provided within or outside the
United Kingdom.

71.7

In this Chapter, “ business premises ” means premises (or any part of
premises) not used as a dwelling.

###### Power to interview

72

72.1

If the CMA considers that an individual (“ X ”) has information relevant to a
digital markets investigation, the CMA may give a notice to X requiring X to
answer questions with respect to any matter relevant to that digital markets
investigation—

72.1.a

at a place or in a manner (which may be remote) specified in the notice, and

72.1.b

either at a time specified in the notice or on receipt of the notice.

72.2

The CMA must include in the notice—

72.2.a

details of the digital markets investigation;

72.2.b

information about the possible consequences of not complying with the notice.

72.3

Where X is connected to (see section  118 (3) ) the undertaking that is the
subject of the digital markets investigation, the CMA must give a copy of the
notice under  subsection (1)  to the undertaking.

72.4

The CMA must comply with the requirement under  subsection (3) —

72.4.a

at the time the notice is given to X, or

72.4.b

where that is not practicable, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
notice is given to X.

72.5

The CMA, or any person nominated by it, may take evidence in answer to
questions under  subsection (1)  on oath, and for that purpose may administer
oaths.

72.6

The powers conferred by  this section  are not exercisable in relation to an
individual outside the United Kingdom.

###### Use of interview statements in prosecution

73

73.1

A statement by X in response to a requirement imposed by virtue of  section 72
(a “ section 72  statement”) may only be used in evidence against X—

73.1.a

on a prosecution for an offence under section  93  or  94 ;

73.1.b

on a prosecution for some other offence in a case falling within  subsection
(2) .

73.2

A prosecution falls within  this subsection  if, in the proceedings—

73.2.a

in giving evidence, X makes a statement inconsistent with the  section 72
statement, and

73.2.b

evidence relating to the  section 72  statement is adduced, or a question
relating to it is asked, by or on behalf of X.

###### Power to enter business premises without a warrant

74

74.1

For the purposes of a breach investigation, the CMA may authorise an officer
of the CMA (“ an investigating officer ”) to enter any business premises (see
section  71 (7) ) and exercise the powers in subsection  (5)  if the CMA has
reasonable grounds to suspect that information is on or accessible from the
premises that is relevant to the breach investigation.

74.2

No investigating officer is to enter any premises in the exercise of their
powers under  this section  unless they have given to the occupier of the
premises a notice which—

74.2.a

gives at least two working days’ notice of the intended entry,

74.2.b

describes the subject matter and purpose of the breach investigation, and

74.2.c

includes information about the possible consequences of not complying with the
notice.

74.3

Subsection (2)  does not apply if—

74.3.a

the CMA has a reasonable suspicion that the premises are, or have been,
occupied by the undertaking which is the subject of the breach investigation,
or

74.3.b

the investigating officer has taken all such steps as are reasonably
practicable to give notice but has not been able to do so.

74.4

In a case falling within  subsection (3) , the power of entry conferred by
subsection (1)  is to be exercised by the investigating officer on production
of—

74.4.a

evidence of their authorisation, and

74.4.b

a document containing the information referred to in paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)
of  subsection (2) .

74.5

An investigating officer may, in addition to entering any premises—

74.5.a

take with them such equipment as appears to them to be necessary;

74.5.b

require any person on the premises to—

74.5.b.i

give information to the officer which the officer considers relevant to the
breach investigation;

74.5.b.ii

if any required information is not given to the officer, state, to the best of
the person’s knowledge and belief, where that information may be found;

74.5.c

take copies of, or extracts from, any information given to an investigating
officer;

74.5.d

take any steps which appear to be necessary for the purpose of preserving or
preventing interference with any information which the officer considers
relevant to the breach investigation.

74.6

Any information which is given to an investigating officer under subsection
(5)  must be in a form—

74.6.a

in which it can be taken away, and

74.6.b

which is visible and legible or from which it can be readily be generated in a
visible and legible form.

74.7

The powers conferred by  this section  are not exercisable in relation to
premises outside the United Kingdom.

74.8

But the powers conferred by this section are exercisable in relation to
information whether it is stored within or outside the United Kingdom.

###### Power to enter premises under a warrant

75

75.1

On an application made to it by the CMA for the purposes of a breach
investigation, the court or the Tribunal may issue a warrant if it is
satisfied that—

75.1.a

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is information on or
accessible from any premises which is relevant to the breach investigation
(“information of the relevant kind”), and

75.1.b

one or both of the following applies—

75.1.b.i

the exercise by the CMA of another digital markets investigation power has not
resulted in the CMA being given the information of the relevant kind;

75.1.b.ii

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is no other digital
markets investigation power the exercise of which would result in the CMA
being given the information of the relevant kind.

75.2

A warrant under  this section  authorises a named officer of the CMA (“the
authorised officer”), and any other of the CMA’s officers whom the CMA has
authorised in writing to accompany the authorised officer, to—

75.2.a

enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such force as is reasonably
necessary;

75.2.b

take onto the premises such equipment as appears to the authorised officer to
be necessary;

75.2.c

search the premises for information appearing to be information of the
relevant kind;

75.2.d

operate any equipment found on the premises for the purpose of producing
information;

75.2.e

require any person on the premises to provide such assistance as the
authorised officer may reasonably require (including providing passwords or
encryption keys and operating equipment on the premises);

75.2.f

require any person on the premises to give information to the authorised
officer;

75.2.g

require any person on the premises to state, to the best of their knowledge
and belief, where information appearing to be of the relevant kind may be
found;

75.2.h

take copies of, or extracts from, any information appearing to be information
of the relevant kind;

75.2.i

take possession of any information appearing to be information of the relevant
kind that is produced under paragraph  (d)  or given to the authorised officer
under  paragraph (f) ;

75.2.j

take possession of any other information appearing to be information of the
relevant kind if—

75.2.j.i

such action appears to be necessary for preserving the information or
preventing interference with it, or

75.2.j.ii

it is not reasonably practicable to take copies of the information on the
premises;

75.2.k

take any other steps which appear to be necessary for the purpose of
preserving any information appearing to be information of the relevant kind or
preventing interference with it.

75.3

Any information which is given to an investigating officer under subsection
(2)  must be in a form—

75.3.a

in which it can be taken away, and

75.3.b

which is visible and legible or from which it can be readily be generated in a
visible and legible form.

75.4

A warrant under  this section  may authorise persons specified in the warrant
to accompany the authorised officer who is executing it.

75.5

A warrant under  this section  continues in force until the end of the period
of one month beginning with the day on which it is issued.

75.6

Any information which the CMA obtains under  subsection (2)  may be retained
for a period of three months.

75.7

For the purposes of  this section  and section  76 —

      “ domestic premises ” means premises (or any part of premises) that are
used as a dwelling and are—         premises also used in connection with the
affairs of an undertaking or, where the undertaking is part of a group, a
member of that group, or           premises where information relating to the
affairs of an undertaking or, where the undertaking is part of a group, a
member of that group, is located;                 “ occupier ”, in relation to
any premises, means a person whom the authorised officer reasonably believes
is the occupier of those premises;           “ premises ” includes business
premises (see section  71 (7) ) and domestic premises.

###### Power to enter premises under a warrant: supplementary

76

76.1

A warrant under  section 75  must describe—

76.1.a

the subject matter and purpose of the breach investigation, and

76.1.b

the offence created by  section 95 .

76.2

The powers conferred by  section 75  are to be exercised on production of the
warrant issued under that section.

76.3

If there is no one at the premises when the authorised officer proposes to
execute the warrant they must, before executing it—

76.3.a

take reasonable steps to inform the occupier of the intended entry, and

76.3.b

if the occupier is informed, afford them or their legal or other
representative a reasonable opportunity to be present when the warrant is
executed.

76.4

If the authorised officer is unable to inform the occupier of the intended
entry they must, when executing the warrant, leave a copy of it in a prominent
place on the premises.

76.5

On leaving any premises which they have entered by virtue of a warrant under
section 75 , the authorised officer must, if the premises are unoccupied or
the occupier is temporarily absent, leave them as effectively secured as they
found them.

76.6

The powers conferred by  section 75  are not exercisable in relation to
premises outside the United Kingdom.

76.7

But the powers conferred by  section 75  are exercisable in relation to
information whether it is stored within or outside the United Kingdom.

###### Amendments to the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001

77

77.1

The Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 is amended as follows.

77.2

In section 50 (additional powers of seizure from premises), at the end insert—

77.2.7

Without prejudice to any power conferred by this section to take a copy of any
document, nothing in this section, so far as it has effect by reference to the
power to take copies of, or extracts from, information under section  75 (2)
(h)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024, is to be
taken to confer any power to seize any information.

77.3

In section 57 (retention of seized items), in subsection (1), at the end
insert—

77.3.v

section  75 (6)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024.

77.4

In section 63 (powers of seizure: copies), in subsection (1), at the end
insert—

77.4.d

for the purposes of this Part, except sections 50 and 51, the powers in
section  75 (2) (d)  and  (f)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024 are to be treated as powers of seizure, and references to
seizure and to seized property are to be construed accordingly.

77.5

In section 64 (meaning of “ appropriate judicial authority ”), in subsection
(3), in paragraph (a), at the end insert—

77.5.iv

section  75 (2)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024.

77.6

In section 65 (meaning of “ legal privilege ”), after subsection (3A) insert—

77.6.3B

In relation to property which has been seized in exercise, or purported
exercise, of—

77.6.3B.a

the power of seizure conferred by section  75 (2)  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024, or

77.6.3B.b

so much of any power of seizure conferred by section 50 as is exercisable by
reference to that power,

references in this Part to an item subject to legal privilege are to be read
as references to a privileged communication within the meaning of section  81
(privileged communications) of that Act.

77.7

In section 66 (general interpretation of Part 2), in subsection (5), after
paragraph (i) insert—

77.7.j

section  75 (2) (j)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024;

77.8

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (powers of seizure to which section 50 of that Act
applies), at the end insert—

77.8.73W

Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024

Each of the powers of seizure conferred by section  75 (2) (i)  and  (j)  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (seizure of
information for the purposes of a breach investigation).

###### Application for a warrant

78

78.1

An application for a warrant under  section 75  must be made—

78.1.a

in the case of an application to the court, in accordance with rules of court;

78.1.b

in the case of an application to the Tribunal, in accordance with Tribunal
rules.

78.2

In Schedule 4 to EA 2002 (tribunal: procedure), in paragraph 10A, in sub-
paragraph (1), after “the 1998 Act” insert  “or  section 75  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

###### Reports by skilled persons

79

79.1

The CMA may exercise the powers in  this section  in relation to a designated
undertaking, an undertaking that is the subject of a breach investigation or
an undertaking that is the subject of an SMS investigation (in each case, “U”)
for the purpose of exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, any of its
digital markets functions.

79.2

The CMA may appoint a skilled person to provide it with a report in a
specified form about matters relevant to the purposes for which the powers
under  this section  are or may be exercised (“the relevant matters”).

79.3

Where the CMA makes such an appointment, the CMA must give a notice to U—

79.3.a

confirming the appointment;

79.3.b

specifying the relevant matters.

79.4

A notice under  subsection (3)  may also make provision for U to be liable for
payment, directly to the skilled person, of the skilled person’s remuneration
and expenses relating to the preparation of the report.

79.5

As an alternative to subsection  (2) , the CMA may give a notice to U—

79.5.a

requiring U to appoint a skilled person to provide the CMA with a report in
such form as may be specified in the notice;

79.5.b

specifying the relevant matters to be explored in the report;

79.5.c

specifying the date by which the report must be provided.

79.6

Where the skilled person is to be appointed by U, U may not make an
appointment unless the CMA has approved in writing—

79.6.a

the identity of the skilled person, and

79.6.b

the terms on which they will be appointed, including in relation to their
remuneration and expenses.

79.7

Subsections (8)  to  (10)  apply in relation to an amount due to a skilled
person from U under  this section .

79.8

In England and Wales, such an amount is recoverable—

79.8.a

if the county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;

79.8.b

if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court.

79.9

In Scotland, such an amount may be enforced in the same manner as an extract
registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution issued by the
sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.

79.10

In Northern Ireland, such an amount is recoverable—

79.10.a

if a county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;

79.10.b

if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court.

79.11

References in  this section  to a skilled person are to a person appearing to
the CMA to have the skills necessary to prepare a report about the relevant
matters.

79.12

It is the duty of—

79.12.a

U, and

79.12.b

any person connected to (see section  118 (3) ) U,

to give a skilled person who has been appointed under this section all such
assistance (including access to such business premises (see section  71 (7) ),
equipment, services, information and individuals) as the skilled person may
reasonably require to prepare the report.

79.13

The duty in  section 79 (12)  does not include a duty to give access to
premises, equipment or individuals outside the United Kingdom.

79.14

But the duty in  section 79 (12)  does include a duty to give access to
information and services whether stored or provided within or outside the
United Kingdom.

###### Duty to preserve information

80

80.1

A person to whom any of subsections  (2) ,  (3) ,  (4)  and  (5)  applies must
not, without reasonable excuse—

80.1.a

destroy, otherwise dispose of, falsify or conceal, or

80.1.b

cause or permit the destruction, disposal, falsification or concealment of,

any relevant information.

80.2

This subsection applies to a person where the person knows or suspects that a
breach investigation or a PCI investigation is being or is likely to be
carried out in relation to an undertaking.

80.3

This subsection applies to a person where the person is, or is connected to
(see section  118 (3) ), an undertaking that is not a designated undertaking
and knows that the undertaking is the subject of an initial SMS investigation.

80.4

This subsection applies to a person where the person is, or is connected to, a
designated undertaking and knows that—

80.4.a

the undertaking is required to produce a compliance report under section  84 ,
or

80.4.b

the undertaking is the subject of a further SMS investigation.

80.5

This subsection applies to a person where the person is, or is connected to,
an undertaking and knows or suspects that the CMA is assisting, or is likely
to assist, an overseas regulator in carrying out, in relation to the
undertaking, any of its functions which correspond or are similar to the
functions of the CMA under this Part (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  (provision
of investigative assistance to overseas regulators)).

80.6

For the purposes of this section, relevant information is information which
the person knows or suspects is or would be—

80.6.a

relevant to the investigation mentioned in subsection  (2) ,  (3) ,  (4)  or
(5) , as the case may be,

80.6.b

used by an undertaking to produce the compliance report, or

80.6.c

relevant to the provision of assistance to the overseas regulator.

###### Privileged communications

81

81.1

A person may not be required under any provision of this Chapter to produce,
generate or give to the CMA or an officer of the CMA a privileged
communication.

81.2

Nothing in this Chapter authorises the CMA or an officer of the CMA to produce
or take possession of, or take copies of or extracts from, a privileged
communication (but this is subject to Part 2 of the Criminal Justice and
Police Act 2001, as amended by  section 77  of this Act).

81.3

A “privileged communication” is a communication—

81.3.a

between a professional legal adviser and their client, or

81.3.b

made in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal proceedings and for the
purposes of those proceedings,

which in proceedings in the High Court would be protected from disclosure on
grounds of legal professional privilege.

81.4

In the application of this section to Scotland—

81.4.a

the reference to the High Court is to be read as a reference to the Court of
Session, and

81.4.b

the reference to legal professional privilege is to be read as a reference to
the confidentiality of communications.

###### Power of CMA to publish notice of investigative assistance

82

82.1

Where the CMA assists an overseas regulator in carrying out any of its
functions which correspond or are similar to the functions of the CMA under
this Part (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  (provision of investigative assistance
to overseas regulators)), the CMA may publish a notice of its decision to do
so which may, in particular—

82.1.a

identify the overseas regulator concerned;

82.1.b

summarise the matter in respect of which the assistance is requested;

82.1.c

identify the undertaking in respect of which the assistance is requested.

82.2

Section  112  does not apply to a notice under subsection  (1)  to the extent
that it includes information other than information mentioned in that
subsection.

##### Compliance reports etc

###### Nominated officer

83

83.1

An undertaking must ensure that, at all times when the undertaking is subject
to a digital markets requirement, it has an officer with responsibility for
carrying out the functions set out in  subsection (2)  in relation to that
digital markets requirement (a “nominated officer”).

83.2

The functions are—

83.2.a

monitoring the undertaking’s compliance with the digital markets requirement
and all related requirements;

83.2.b

cooperating with the CMA for the purposes of securing that the undertaking
complies with the digital markets requirement and all related requirements to
the satisfaction of the CMA;

83.2.c

securing that the undertaking complies with  section 84  (compliance reports).

83.3

A “digital markets requirement” is any of the following—

83.3.a

a conduct requirement under  section 19 ;

83.3.b

a requirement imposed by virtue of a pro-competition order under  section 46 ;

83.3.c

a requirement to comply with a commitment given under section  56 .

83.4

A “related requirement” is any of the following relating to a digital markets
requirement—

83.4.a

a requirement imposed by virtue of an enforcement order under  section 31  or
section 32 ;

83.4.b

the requirement to comply with a commitment given under  section 36 ;

83.4.c

a requirement imposed by virtue of a final offer order under section  41 (2)
or  section 42 ;

83.4.d

a requirement in a direction under section 87 of EA 2002 (delegated power of
directions) given by virtue of a pro-competition order (see  section 51 (1) ).

83.5

A nominated officer must be an individual who the undertaking—

83.5.a

considers to be a senior manager of the undertaking, within the meaning of
section 70 (3) , and

83.5.b

reasonably expects to be in a position to fulfil the functions set out in
subsection (2)  in relation to the digital markets requirement.

83.6

An undertaking that is required to have a nominated officer under  subsection
(1)  must, as soon as reasonably practicable, inform the CMA of the identity
of the nominated officer (including any replacement officer).

###### Compliance reports

84

84.1

An undertaking that is subject to a digital markets requirement (as defined in
section  83 (3) ) must provide the CMA with a compliance report in relation to
that digital markets requirement for each reporting period (as specified in a
notice under subsection  (3) ).

84.2

A compliance report is a report setting out—

84.2.a

the extent to which the nominated officer considers that the undertaking has
complied with the digital markets requirement and each related requirement
(see section  83 (4) ) during the reporting period;

84.2.b

how the undertaking has complied, and intends to continue to comply, with the
digital markets requirement and each related requirement;

84.2.c

such other information as the CMA may direct in relation to compliance with
the digital markets requirement and each related requirement.

84.3

At the same time as imposing a digital markets requirement on an undertaking,
the CMA must give a notice to the undertaking specifying—

84.3.a

the manner and form of the compliance report to be provided in relation to
that digital markets requirement, and

84.3.b

the reporting period for that digital markets requirement.

84.4

The CMA may amend the requirements specified in a notice under subsection  (3)
by giving a further notice to the undertaking.

84.5

The CMA may give a notice to an undertaking requiring it to publish a
compliance report or a summary of a compliance report at such time, and in
such manner and form, as the CMA may set out in the notice.

#### Enforcement and appeals

##### Civil penalties

###### Penalties for failure to comply with competition requirements

85

85.1

Where the CMA considers that an undertaking has, without reasonable excuse,
failed to comply with a requirement listed in  subsection (2) , it may impose
a penalty on the undertaking.

85.2

The requirements are—

85.2.a

a requirement imposed by virtue of an enforcement order under  section 31  or
section 32 ,

85.2.b

a requirement imposed by virtue of a final offer order under  section 41
(including a requirement imposed in reliance on  section 42 ),

85.2.c

a requirement imposed by virtue of a pro-competition order under  section 46 ,
and

85.2.d

the requirement to comply with a commitment given under  section 36  or  56 .

85.3

The CMA may impose a penalty on an undertaking where the CMA considers that
the undertaking has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with a
conduct requirement under  section 19 .

85.4

The CMA may impose a penalty on an undertaking or, where the undertaking is
part of a group, the group, where the CMA considers that the undertaking or
any member of the group has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with
a requirement in  Chapter 5  (mergers).

###### Amount of penalties under section 

86

86.1

The amount of a penalty imposed on a person under section  85  may be such
amount as the CMA considers appropriate, provided it does not exceed the
amounts set out in subsection  (4) .

86.2

The amount of a penalty under section  85 (1)  must be—

86.2.a

a fixed amount,

86.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

86.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

86.3

The amount of a penalty under section  85 (3)  or  (4)  must be a fixed
amount.

86.4

The maximum amounts of a penalty that may be imposed are—

86.4.a

in the case of a fixed amount, an amount equal to 10% of the total value of
the turnover of the undertaking or, where the undertaking is part of a group,
the turnover of the group;

86.4.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
an amount equal to 5% of the total value of the daily turnover of the
undertaking or, where the undertaking is part of a group, the daily turnover
of the group;

86.4.c

in the case of a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, the amounts mentioned in paragraph  (a) , in
relation to the fixed amount, and paragraph  (b) , in relation to the amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate.

86.5

In  subsection (4) , references to the total value of the turnover or daily
turnover of an undertaking or group are to the total value of the turnover or
daily turnover of the undertaking or, as the case may be, group, both inside
and outside the United Kingdom.

###### Penalties for failure to comply with investigative requirements

87

87.1

The CMA may impose a penalty on a person where it considers that the person
has, without reasonable excuse—

87.1.a

failed to comply with a requirement imposed by or under  Chapter 6 ,

87.1.b

given information which is false or misleading in a material particular in
connection with any function of the CMA under this Part, or

87.1.c

given information which is false or misleading in a material particular to
another person knowing that the information was to be used for the purpose of
giving information to the CMA in connection with any function of the CMA under
this Part.

87.2

The CMA may impose a penalty on an individual named as a senior manager under
section 70  as well as on the undertaking that names the individual where—

87.2.a

the CMA considers that the individual has failed, without reasonable excuse,
to prevent a failure or an action by the undertaking of a sort mentioned in
subsection  (1) , and

87.2.b

the failure or action relates to an information notice in response to which
the individual was named as a senior manager.

87.3

The CMA may impose a penalty on an individual who is appointed by an
undertaking to be a nominated officer under  section 83  in relation to a
digital markets requirement (within the meaning of that section), as well as
on the undertaking that appoints the individual, where the CMA considers that
the individual has failed, without reasonable excuse, to prevent the
undertaking from failing to comply with a requirement in or under  section 84
(compliance reports) in relation to that digital markets requirement.

87.4

The CMA may impose a penalty on an individual where it considers that the
individual has, without reasonable excuse, obstructed an officer of the CMA
acting in the exercise of the officer’s powers under—

87.4.a

section  74 , or

87.4.b

a warrant issued under section  75 .

###### Amount of penalties under section 

88

88.1

The amount of a penalty imposed on a person under section  87  may be such
amount as the CMA considers appropriate, provided it does not exceed the
amounts set out in subsections  (3)  and  (5) .

88.2

The amount of a penalty under section  87  must be—

88.2.a

a fixed amount,

88.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

88.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

88.3

The maximum amounts of a penalty that may be imposed on an undertaking that is
not an individual are—

88.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, an amount equal to 1% of the total value of the
person’s turnover (both inside and outside the United Kingdom);

88.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
an amount equal to 5% of the total value of the person’s daily turnover (both
inside and outside the United Kingdom);

88.3.c

in the case of a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, the amounts mentioned in paragraph (a), in relation
to the fixed amount, and paragraph (b), in relation to the amount calculated
by reference to a daily rate.

88.4

Where a person is an undertaking that is part of a group, references in
subsection  (3)  to the person’s turnover are to the turnover of that group.

88.5

The maximum amounts of a penalty that may be imposed on an individual or a
person that is not an undertaking are—

88.5.a

in the case of a fixed amount, £30,000,

88.5.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, £15,000 per
day, or

88.5.c

in the case of a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, the amounts mentioned in paragraph  (a) , in
relation to the fixed amount, and paragraph  (b) , in relation to the amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate.

88.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the amounts mentioned in
paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of subsection  (5) .

88.7

The Secretary of State must consult the CMA and such other persons as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate before making regulations under
subsection  (6) .

88.8

Regulations under subsection  (6)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Procedure and appeals etc

89

89.1

Sections 112 (penalties: main procedural requirements), 113 (payments and
interest by instalments), 114 (appeals), and 115 (recovery of penalties) of EA
2002 apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section  85  or  87  as they
apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section 110(1) of that Act.

89.2

For the purposes of this section—

89.2.a

sections 112 to 115 of EA 2002 are to be read as if references to “the
appropriate authority” were references to “the CMA” only;

89.2.b

section 114(5A) of that Act is to be read as if the words “In the case of a
penalty imposed on a person by the CMA or OFCOM,” were omitted;

89.2.c

section 114(12) of that Act is to be read as if, for paragraph (b), there were
substituted—

89.2.c.b

“ the relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most
recently published under section  91  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024 at the time of the act or omission giving rise to the
penalty.

###### Calculation of daily rates and turnover

90

90.1

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

90.1.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the service on the person
concerned of the provisional penalty notice under section 112(A1) of EA 2002
(as applied by section  89 ), and

90.1.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier day (whether before or after the penalty
is imposed), the amount payable ceases to accumulate at the beginning of—

90.1.b.i

the day on which the person first complies with the requirement in question,
or

90.1.b.ii

if earlier, where the requirement was imposed in connection with the provision
by the CMA of assistance to an overseas regulator (see  section 319
(provision of investigative assistance to overseas regulators)), the day on
which the overseas regulator no longer requires that assistance.

90.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining the
turnover (both inside and outside the United Kingdom) of a person for the
purposes of this Chapter.

90.3

The regulations may (among other things)—

90.3.a

make provision about amounts which are, or are not, to be included in a
person’s turnover;

90.3.b

make provision about the date or dates by reference to which a person’s
turnover is to be determined;

90.3.c

confer on the CMA the power to determine and make provision about matters
specified in the regulations (including the matters mentioned in paragraphs
(a)  and  (b) ).

90.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Statement of policy on penalties

91

91.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
exercise of powers to impose a penalty under sections  85  and  87 .

91.2

The statement must include a statement about the considerations relevant to
the determination of—

91.2.a

whether to impose a penalty under section  85  or  87 ;

91.2.b

the nature and amount of any such penalty.

91.3

The CMA may revise its statement of policy and, where it does so, must publish
the revised statement.

91.4

In preparing or revising its statement of policy the CMA must consult—

91.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

91.4.b

such other persons as the CMA considers appropriate.

91.5

A statement of policy, or revised statement, may not be published under  this
section  without the approval of the Secretary of State.

91.6

Subsection  (7)  applies where the CMA proposes to impose a penalty on a
person.

91.7

The CMA must have regard to the statement of policy most recently published
under this section at the time of the act or omission giving rise to the
penalty when deciding—

91.7.a

whether to impose the penalty, and

91.7.b

if so, the amount of the penalty.

###### Monetary penalties: criminal proceedings and convictions

92

92.1

The CMA may not impose a penalty on a person under section  87  in relation to
an act or omission which constitutes an offence under section  93 ,  94  or
95  if the person has, in relation to that act or omission, been found guilty
of that offence.

92.2

A person may not be found guilty of an offence under section  93 ,  94  or  95
by virtue of an act or omission if the person has paid a penalty imposed under
section  87  in relation to that act or omission.

##### Offences

###### Destroying or falsifying information

93

93.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if, having been required to give
information to the CMA or any other person under a provision of  Chapter 6 ,
P—

93.1.a

intentionally or recklessly destroys or otherwise disposes of it, falsifies it
or conceals it, or

93.1.b

causes or permits its destruction, disposal, falsification or concealment.

93.2

See  section 97  for provision restricting the application of this section in
relation to acts done by a person who is outside the United Kingdom.

###### False or misleading information

94

94.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if—

94.1.a

P gives information to the CMA in connection with any of the CMA’s digital
markets functions,

94.1.b

the information is false or misleading in a material particular, and

94.1.c

P knows that it is or is reckless as to whether it is.

94.2

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P gives information to another person
which is false or misleading in a material particular and P—

94.2.a

either—

94.2.a.i

knows the information to be false or misleading in a material particular, or

94.2.a.ii

is reckless as to whether the information is false or misleading in a material
particular, and

94.2.b

knows that the information will be given to the CMA in connection with any of
its digital markets functions.

94.3

See  section 97  for provision restricting the application of this section in
relation to acts done by a person who is outside the United Kingdom.

###### Obstructing an officer

95

95.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P intentionally obstructs an officer of
the CMA acting in the exercise of the officer’s powers under—

95.1.a

section  74 , or

95.1.b

a warrant issued under section  75 .

95.2

See  section 97  for provision restricting the application of this section in
relation to acts done by a person who is outside the United Kingdom.

###### Offences by officers of a body corporate etc

96

96.1

If an offence under section  93 ,  94  or  95  committed by a body corporate
is proved—

96.1.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body corporate, or

96.1.b

to be attributable to neglect on the part of an officer of the body corporate,

the officer as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

96.2

If the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, subsection  (1)
applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection with
the member’s functions of management as if the member were an officer of the
body corporate.

96.3

If an offence under section  93 ,  94  or  95  committed by a partnership in
Scotland is proved—

96.3.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or

96.3.b

to be attributable to neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership is guilty of the offence and liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

96.4

In subsection  (3) , “ partner ” includes a person purporting to act as a
partner.

96.5

See  section 97  for provision restricting the application of this section in
relation to acts done by a person who is outside the United Kingdom.

###### Offences: limits on extra-territorial jurisdiction

97

A person does not commit an offence under section  93 ,  94  or  95
(including as those sections are applied by section  96 ) by virtue of an act
done when the person is outside the United Kingdom unless one or more of the
following applies at the time of the act—

97.a

the person is a United Kingdom national;

97.b

the person is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom;

97.c

the person is a body incorporated under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom.

###### Sentences

98

A person guilty of an offence under section  93 ,  94  or  95  is liable—

98.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

98.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

98.c

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine or to both.

##### Further enforcement provisions etc

###### Director disqualification

99

99.1

In the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986, in section 9A (competition
disqualification order), in subsection (4)—

99.1.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “either” substitute  “any” ;

99.1.b

at the end insert—

99.1.b.e

a requirement imposed by or under  Chapter 3  of Part 1 of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (undertakings with strategic
market status in respect of a digital activity: conduct requirements);

99.1.b.f

a requirement imposed by or under  Chapter 4  of Part 1 of that Act (pro-
competition interventions).

99.2

In the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4)) , in Article 13A (competition disqualification order), in
paragraph (4)—

99.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “either” substitute  “any” ;

99.2.b

at the end insert—

99.2.b.e

a requirement imposed by or under  Chapter 3  of Part 1 of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (undertakings with strategic
market status in respect of a digital activity: conduct requirements);

99.2.b.f

a requirement imposed by or under  Chapter 4  of Part 1 of that Act (pro-
competition interventions).

###### Enforcement of requirements

100

100.1

If a person fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a requirement
mentioned in  subsection (2)  (a “ subsection (2)  requirement”), the CMA may
apply to the court for an order—

100.1.a

requiring the person to comply with the  subsection (2)  requirement within a
time specified in the court’s order, or

100.1.b

if the  subsection (2)  requirement related to anything to be done in the
management or administration of an undertaking, requiring the undertaking, or
any of its officers, members or partners, to do it.

100.2

The requirements are—

100.2.a

a requirement imposed by virtue of an enforcement order (see  section 31  and
section 32 );

100.2.b

a requirement to comply with a commitment given under section  36  or  56 ;

100.2.c

a requirement imposed by virtue of a final offer order (see  section 41 (2)
and  section 42 );

100.2.d

a requirement imposed by virtue of a pro-competition order (see section  46 ).

100.3

An order of the court under  subsection (1)  may provide for all of the costs
of, or incidental to, the application for the order to be borne by—

100.3.a

the person that failed to comply with the  subsection (2)  requirement, or

100.3.b

where the person responsible for the failure is an undertaking, any officer of
a body corporate that is or is comprised in that undertaking.

100.4

In the application of  subsection (3)  to Scotland, the reference to “costs”
is to be read as a reference to “expenses”.

100.5

In  this section , references to an “officer”, “member” or “partner” of an
undertaking are to an officer, member or partner of a body corporate or, as
the case may be, partnership, that is, or is comprised in, the undertaking.

###### Rights to enforce requirements of this Part

101

101.1

A relevant requirement is to be treated as a duty owed by the person that is
subject to the requirement to any other person (“ P ”) who may be affected by
a breach of the requirement.

101.2

Where a breach of a relevant requirement causes P to sustain loss or damage, P
may bring civil proceedings against the person that has breached the
requirement before the appropriate court or the Tribunal for damages, an
injunction or interdict or any other appropriate relief or remedy.

101.3

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  are subject to the defences and other incidents
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.

101.4

For the purposes of this section and section  102 , a relevant requirement is—

101.4.a

a conduct requirement under section  19 ;

101.4.b

a requirement imposed by virtue of a pro-competition order under section  46 ;

101.4.c

a requirement to comply with a commitment given under section  36  or  56 .

101.5

Rules of court and Tribunal rules may make provision about the transfer from
the Tribunal to the appropriate court or from the appropriate court to the
Tribunal of all or any part of a claim made in proceedings under  subsection
(2) .

101.6

For the purposes of this section and section  102 , the “ appropriate court ”
means—

101.6.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the High Court, and

101.6.b

in relation to Scotland, the Court of Session or a sheriff court of any
sheriffdom.

101.7

In Schedule 4 to EA 2002 (tribunal: procedure), in paragraph 1A, in sub-
paragraph (1) after “the 1998 Act” insert  “or  section 101  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

###### Treatment of CMA breach decisions etc

102

102.1

The appropriate court (see  section 101 ) and the Tribunal are bound by a CMA
breach decision once it has become final.

102.2

A CMA breach decision becomes final—

102.2.a

when the time for applying for a review of that decision has passed without an
application being made, or

102.2.b

where an application has been made, when the application has been finally
determined or has otherwise ended.

102.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (b) , an application is not finally
determined until any appeal relating to it has been determined (ignoring any
possibility of an appeal out of time with permission).

102.4

This section applies to the extent that the appropriate court or the Tribunal
would not otherwise be bound by the CMA breach decision in question.

102.5

In this section, a “CMA breach decision” is a decision by the CMA in
accordance with this Part that a person has breached a relevant requirement
(as defined in section  101 ).

102.6

Rules of court or Tribunal rules may make provision in respect of assistance
to be given by the CMA to the appropriate court or the Tribunal in proceedings
brought otherwise than by the CMA in respect of a breach, or an alleged
breach, of a relevant requirement.

##### Applications for review

###### Applications for review etc

103

103.1

A person with a sufficient interest in any decision to which subsection  (2)
applies may apply to the Tribunal in accordance with Tribunal rules for a
review of that decision.

103.2

This subsection applies to any decision made by the CMA in connection with its
digital markets functions (including a decision not to exercise a function)
apart from—

103.2.a

a decision made by the CMA in connection with its functions under  Chapter 5
(but see section  66 );

103.2.b

a decision about the imposition of a penalty under section  85  or  87  (but
see section  89 (1) ).

103.3

The making of an application under  subsection (1)  does not suspend the
effect of the decision to which the application relates except so far as a
direction to the contrary is given by the Tribunal.

103.4

In determining an application under  this section , the Tribunal must apply
the same principles as would be applied—

103.4.a

in the case of proceedings in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, by the
High Court in determining proceedings on judicial review;

103.4.b

in the case of proceedings in Scotland, by the Court of Session on an
application to the supervisory jurisdiction of that Court.

103.5

The Tribunal may—

103.5.a

dismiss the application or quash the whole or part of the decision to which it
relates, and

103.5.b

where it quashes the whole or part of that decision, refer the matter back to
the CMA with a direction to reconsider and make a new decision in accordance
with the ruling of the Tribunal.

103.6

An appeal lies on any point of law arising from a decision of the Tribunal
under  this section  to the appropriate court.

103.7

An appeal under subsection  (6)  requires the permission of the Tribunal or
the appropriate court.

103.8

In  this section , “ the appropriate court ” means—

103.8.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the Court of Appeal, or

103.8.b

in relation to Scotland, the Court of Session.

#### Administration etc

##### Administration

###### Extension etc of periods

104

104.1

The CMA may publish a notice extending a relevant investigation period or a
final offer period by a period of up to 3 months where it considers that there
are special reasons for doing so.

104.2

A notice under  subsection (1)  must specify how long the extension is for.

104.3

The CMA may also publish a notice extending a relevant investigation period or
a final offer period where it considers that—

104.3.a

in relation to a relevant investigation period—

104.3.a.i

a person has failed to comply with any requirement of a notice under section
69  (power to require information) or under section  72  (power to interview)
which was given in relation to an SMS investigation, a conduct investigation
or a PCI investigation, and

104.3.a.ii

the failure is preventing the CMA from properly discharging the digital
markets functions to which the investigation relates, or

104.3.b

in relation to a final offer period—

104.3.b.i

a person has failed to comply with any requirement of a notice under section
69 , and

104.3.b.ii

the failure is preventing the CMA from properly discharging any of its
functions under sections  38  to  45  (final offer mechanism).

104.4

An extension under  subsection (3)  is for the period—

104.4.a

beginning with the day on which it comes into force, and

104.4.b

ending with the day on which the CMA publishes a notice of its decision to end
the extension.

104.5

The CMA must publish a notice under  subsection (4) (b)  where the person who
had failed to comply as mentioned in  subsection (3)  gives the information in
question to the CMA or, as the case may be, answers questions and provides
explanations to the satisfaction of the CMA.

104.6

An extension under  subsection (1)  or  (3)  begins with the day on which the
notice under  subsection (1)  or  (3) , as the case may be, is published.

104.7

Where—

104.7.a

the CMA extends an SMS investigation period relating to a further SMS
investigation under  subsection (1)  or  (3) ,

104.7.b

the extension means that the SMS investigation period would (apart from this
subsection) continue after the end of the designation period for the existing
designation which is the subject of the further SMS investigation, and

104.7.c

in the case of an extension under  subsection (3) , the person who had failed
to comply is, or is connected to, the designated undertaking,

the designation period for the existing designation is extended until the end
of the SMS investigation period.

104.8

In  this section  and in  section 105  references to a “relevant investigation
period” are to—

104.8.a

an SMS investigation period;

104.8.b

a conduct investigation period;

104.8.c

a PCI investigation period.

###### Extensions: supplementary

105

105.1

A period may be extended under both section  104 (1)  and  (3) .

105.2

No more than one extension is possible under section  104 (1) .

105.3

Where a relevant investigation period or a final offer period is extended or
further extended under section  104 (1)  or  (3) , the period as extended or,
as the case may be, further extended is, subject to  subsection (4) , to be
calculated by taking the period being extended and adding to it the period of
the extension (whether or not those periods overlap in time).

105.4

Where—

105.4.a

a relevant investigation period or a final offer period is further extended
under  section 104 (3) , and

105.4.b

the further extension overlaps with a previous extension under section  104
(3) ,

the period of overlap is to be disregarded in calculating the period of the
further extension.

###### Exercise and delegation of functions

106

106.1

The CMA may make a reference to the CMA chair for the constitution of a group
under Schedule 4 to ERRA 2013 in respect of any non-reserved digital markets
function.

106.2

A reference under  this section  must specify the non-reserved digital markets
function in respect of which the reference is made (“the referred function”).

106.3

A CMA group constituted under ERRA 2013 for the purposes of a reference under
this section  must carry out the referred function.

106.4

For the purposes of  this section , a “non-reserved digital markets function”
is any digital markets function other than a digital markets function that the
CMA Board may not delegate—

106.4.a

under paragraph 29(1) of Schedule 4 to ERRA 2013, as a result of paragraph
29(2) of that Schedule as it has effect from time to time, or

106.4.b

under paragraph 29(1)(a) of that Schedule, as a result of paragraph 29(2A) of
that Schedule as it has effect from time to time.

106.5

In  subsection (1) , “ CMA chair ” means the person appointed under paragraph
1(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to ERRA 2013.

106.6

In Schedule 4 to ERRA 2013 (the Competition and Markets Authority), paragraph
29 (delegation) is amended as follows.

106.7

In sub-paragraph (2) (functions which cannot be delegated), at the end insert—

106.7.g

whether to begin an initial SMS investigation under  section 9  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (“ the 2024 Act ”);

106.7.h

whether to begin a further SMS investigation under  section 10  of the 2024
Act;

106.7.i

whether to begin a PCI investigation under section  47  of the 2024 Act.

106.8

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

106.8.2A

Sub-paragraph (1)(a) does not apply to the functions of deciding—

106.8.2A.a

whether to make a designation under section  2  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.b

what, if any, provision to make in reliance on section  17  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.c

whether to impose a conduct requirement under section  19  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.d

whether to revoke a conduct requirement under section  22  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.e

whether to make, and the form of, an enforcement order, other than an interim
enforcement order, under section  31  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.f

whether to accept a commitment under section  36  or section  56  of the 2024
Act;

106.8.2A.g

whether to exercise the power conferred by section  38 (1)  of the 2024 Act
(power to adopt final offer mechanism);

106.8.2A.h

whether to make, and the form of, a pro-competition intervention under section
46  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.i

the contents of a notice under  section 50  of the 2024 Act (notice of
decision on pro-competition intervention);

106.8.2A.j

whether to replace a pro-competition order under section  52  of the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.k

whether to revoke a pro-competition order under section  53  of the 2024 Act.

106.8.2A.l

whether to impose a penalty on a person under section  85  or section  87  of
the 2024 Act;

106.8.2A.m

the amount of any such penalty.

106.8.2B

A committee or sub-committee of the CMA Board may not be authorised to carry
out any of the functions listed in sub-paragraph  (2A)  unless—

106.8.2B.a

the committee or sub-committee includes—

106.8.2B.a.i

at least two members of the Board who are not members of the CMA’s staff, or

106.8.2B.a.ii

the chair and at least one member of the Board who is not a member of the
CMA’s staff, and

106.8.2B.b

at least half of the members of the committee or sub-committee are—

106.8.2B.b.i

members of the Board who are not members of the CMA’s staff, or

106.8.2B.b.ii

members of the CMA panel.

106.9

After sub-paragraph (3) insert—

106.9.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
sub-paragraphs (2) or (2A) so as to add or remove functions of the CMA under
Part  1  of the 2024 Act.

106.9.5

The regulations may make incidental, transitional or saving provision.

106.9.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph  (4)  may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

##### Regulatory coordination and information sharing

###### Coordination with relevant regulators

107

107.1

The CMA must consult the FCA on a proposal to exercise a regulatory digital
markets function in respect of a matter where the CMA considers the matter is
a matter in relation to which the CMA and the FCA may have concurrent
functions (see sections 234I (functions under Part 4 of EA 2002) and 234J
(functions under CA 1998) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as
amended by this Act) (“ FSMA ”)).

107.2

The CMA must consult OFCOM on a proposal to exercise a regulatory digital
markets function in respect of a matter where the CMA considers the matter is
a matter in relation to which the CMA and OFCOM may have concurrent functions
(see sections 370 (functions under Part 4 of EA 2002) and 371 (functions under
CA 1998) of the Communications Act 2003 (as amended by this Act)).

107.3

The CMA must consult the Information Commissioner on a proposal to exercise a
regulatory digital markets function in a manner that the CMA considers is
likely to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Information
Commissioner to exercise functions under—

107.3.a

the data protection legislation,

107.3.b

the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (
S.I. 2003/2426 ), or

107.3.c

the Network and Information Systems Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/506 ).

107.4

The CMA must consult the Bank of England on a proposal to exercise a
regulatory digital markets function in a manner that the CMA considers is
likely to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Bank of England
to advance the Financial Stability Objective as defined in section 2A of the
Bank of England Act 1998.

107.5

The CMA must consult the PRA on a proposal to exercise a regulatory digital
markets function in a manner that the CMA considers is likely to have a
material adverse effect on the ability of the PRA to advance—

107.5.a

its general objective under section 2B of FSMA, or

107.5.b

its insurance objective under section 2C of FSMA.

107.6

The duties in  subsections (1)  to  (5)  apply only to the extent that the CMA
considers that compliance does not impose a burden on it that outweighs the
benefits of compliance.

###### Recommendations to the CMA

108

108.1

The FCA or OFCOM may make a recommendation to the CMA where they consider that
the CMA should exercise a regulatory digital markets function in relation to
an undertaking and a digital activity.

108.2

A recommendation under  subsection (1)  must—

108.2.a

describe the undertaking, the digital activity, and the regulatory digital
markets function to which it relates, and

108.2.b

be given to the CMA in writing.

108.3

A recommendation under  this section  must be accompanied by a statement of
reasons for the recommendation.

108.4

Within the period of 90 days beginning with the day on which it receives a
recommendation, the CMA must—

108.4.a

give notice to the regulator that made the recommendation—

108.4.a.i

setting out the action that the CMA has taken or intends to take in response
to the recommendation, and

108.4.a.ii

including the reasons for its decision, and

108.4.b

publish a summary of the notice.

###### Information sharing

109

109.1

In Schedule 14 to EA 2002 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the
appropriate place insert—

      Part 1  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024.

109.2

In Schedule 15 to EA 2002 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the
appropriate places insert—

      Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (
S.I. 2003/2426 ).

;

      “ Regulation (EU) No 910/2014  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for
electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing  Directive
1999/93/EC .

;

      “ Regulation (EU) 2016/679  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (United
Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation).

;

      “Part 4 of the Network and Information Systems Regulations 2018 ( S.I.
2018/506 ).

;

      “Data Protection Act 2018.

;

      “ Part 1  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024.

##### Miscellaneous

###### Power to charge levy

110

110.1

The CMA may require an undertaking to pay it a levy in respect of a chargeable
year during the whole or part of which the undertaking is a designated
undertaking.

110.2

The amount of the levy is to be calculated in accordance with rules made for
the purposes of  this section  by the CMA (“the levy rules”).

110.3

The CMA may amend or replace the levy rules.

110.4

The levy rules must—

110.4.a

secure that the aggregate amount payable in respect of a chargeable year is
not to exceed the costs which the CMA incurs in exercising its digital markets
functions during that year;

110.4.b

make provision about how the aggregate amount payable in respect of a
chargeable year is to be divided between the undertakings which are designated
undertakings for the whole or part of that year;

110.4.c

secure that where an undertaking is a designated undertaking for only part of
a chargeable year, the amount of the levy payable by that undertaking in
respect of that chargeable year is proportionately reduced;

110.4.d

set out how the CMA is to estimate the costs which it expects to incur in
exercising its digital markets functions during a chargeable year;

110.4.e

set out how the CMA is to calculate the costs which it actually incurs in
exercising its digital markets functions during a chargeable year;

110.4.f

make provision about the repayment or crediting of any amounts of levy paid in
respect of a chargeable year on the basis of the CMA’s estimate of the costs
it would incur in exercising its digital markets functions during that year
where the CMA’s estimated costs exceed the CMA’s actual costs of exercising
those functions during that year;

110.4.g

secure that any repayment or crediting in respect of a chargeable year in
accordance with provision made under  paragraph (f) , so far as relating to an
undertaking, is in proportion to the amount paid by that undertaking in
respect of that year;

110.4.h

make provision about the charging of amounts of levy in respect of a
chargeable year where the CMA’s actual costs of exercising its digital markets
functions during that year exceed the costs which the CMA estimated it would
incur;

110.4.i

secure that, where an undertaking is required to pay an amount of levy in
respect of a chargeable year in accordance with provision made under
paragraph (h) , the amount which the undertaking is required to pay is in
proportion to the amount already paid by the undertaking in respect of that
year;

110.4.j

make provision about the administration and payment of the levy.

110.5

The levy rules may make provision for interest to be charged, at the rate
specified for the time being in section 17 of the Judgments Act 1838, on any
amount of levy not paid by the date on which it is due.

110.6

References in  subsection (4)  to an amount payable by an undertaking do not
include interest charged in accordance with provision made under  subsection
(5) .

110.7

The CMA must pay any amount that it receives in accordance with provision made
under  subsection (5)  into the Consolidated Fund.

110.8

The CMA must consult such persons as it considers appropriate before making
the levy rules, including any amended or replacement levy rules (see  section
113 ).

110.9

The consultation must include a draft of the proposed levy rules.

110.10

The CMA must, at the same time as beginning consultation under  subsection (8)
, arrange for the draft of the proposed levy rules to be laid before
Parliament.

110.11

The CMA must publish the levy rules, including amended or replacement rules.

110.12

An amount payable by an undertaking in accordance with  this section  and the
levy rules is recoverable as a civil debt due to the CMA.

110.13

For the purposes of  this section —

110.13.a

a chargeable year is a period of 12 months ending with 31 March;

110.13.b

the CMA’s costs of exercising its digital markets functions do not include
costs incurred by the CMA for the purposes of litigation.

###### Extra-territorial application

111

111.1

Unless otherwise stated, this Part applies in relation to persons outside the
United Kingdom.

111.2

A power to give a notice to a person outside the United Kingdom by virtue of
this Part  is exercisable only if the person is within  subsection (3) ,  (4)
or  (5) .

111.3

A person is within  this subsection  if the person is, or is part of—

111.3.a

a designated undertaking or an undertaking to which an obligation applies by
virtue of provision made in reliance on section  17 (1)  (existing
obligations);

111.3.b

an undertaking that is the subject of a digital markets investigation.

111.4

A person is within this subsection if the person is an individual—

111.4.a

who is named as a senior manager under  section 70  or appointed as a
nominated officer under  section 83 , and

111.4.b

on whom the CMA has imposed or is considering imposing a penalty under
section 87 (2)  or  87 (3) , as the case may be.

111.5

A person is within  this subsection  if the person—

111.5.a

is a United Kingdom national,

111.5.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

111.5.c

is a body incorporated under the law of any part of the United Kingdom, or

111.5.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom.

111.6

Nothing in  this section  is to be taken to limit any other power of the CMA
to give a notice to a person outside the United Kingdom.

###### Defamation

112

For the purposes of the law relating to defamation, absolute privilege
attaches to anything done by the CMA in the exercise of any of its functions
under  this Part .

###### Consultation and publication of documents

113

113.1

The CMA must comply with any duty to consult under  this Part  in such manner
as it considers practicable, having regard in particular to—

113.1.a

any need to keep information confidential, and

113.1.b

the timetable for making a final decision or taking any action following the
consultation.

113.2

Any consultation which the CMA carries out under  this Part  must include—

113.2.a

reasons for the finding, decision or proposal to which the consultation
relates, and

113.2.b

such other information as the CMA considers necessary to allow a proper
understanding of those reasons (subject to  subsection (1) (b) ).

113.3

The CMA must comply with any duty to publish a notice or any other document
under this Part by publishing the notice or document online, having regard to
any need to keep information confidential.

113.4

In order to give effect to any need to keep information confidential, the CMA
may publish the notice or other document in a redacted form.

###### Guidance

114

114.1

The CMA must publish guidance on how it will exercise its functions under this
Part.

114.2

The CMA may revise or replace guidance published under this section.

114.3

The CMA must publish any revised or replacement guidance.

114.4

Before publishing guidance (including any revised or replacement guidance)
under this section, the CMA must—

114.4.a

consult such persons as it considers appropriate, and

114.4.b

obtain the approval of the Secretary of State.

114.5

When the CMA seeks the approval of the Secretary of State for guidance, the
Secretary of State must—

114.5.a

approve the guidance, or

114.5.b

give reasons to the CMA for not approving it.

114.6

The Secretary of State must comply with  subsection (5)  before the end of the
30th working day after the day on which the CMA seeks the Secretary of State’s
approval.

###### Protected disclosures

115

In the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order 2014 ( S.I.
2014/2418 ), in the table in the Schedule, in the entry for the Competition
and Markets Authority, in the right hand column, after “Kingdom” insert  “,
including matters relating to Part 1 of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024 (digital markets)” .

###### Restriction on disclosure orders

116

116.1

This section applies for the purposes of—

116.1.a

digital markets proceedings, or

116.1.b

competition proceedings.

116.2

A court or the Tribunal must not make a disclosure order requiring the CMA to
disclose or produce information where the court or the Tribunal is satisfied
that another person would be reasonably able to provide the information.

116.3

A court or the Tribunal must not make a disclosure order requiring the
disclosure or production of digital markets investigation information before
the CMA gives notice of the closure or outcome of each investigation to which
the information relates.

116.4

In this section—

      “ competition proceedings ” has the meaning given by paragraph 2(4) of
Schedule 8A to the Competition Act 1998 (further provision about claims in
respect of loss or damage before a court or the Tribunal);           “ digital
markets investigation information ” means information—         prepared by a
person other than the CMA for the purpose of a digital markets investigation;
sent by the CMA in connection with such an investigation to a person that is
the subject of the investigation;                 “ digital markets
proceedings ” means proceedings under  section 101  (rights to enforce
requirements of  Part 1 ) or proceedings on appeal from such proceedings.

116.5

Paragraphs 7 and 27 of Schedule 8A to the Competition Act 1998 (other
definitions; disclosure orders) apply for the purposes of this section as they
apply for the purposes of Part 6 of that Schedule.

116.6

In Schedule 8A to the Competition Act 1998—

116.6.a

in paragraph 7 (other definitions), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

116.6.a.2A

“ Digital markets proceedings ” means proceedings under  section 101  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumer Act 2024 (rights to enforce
requirements of  Part 1 ).

;

116.6.b

in paragraph 28, after “competition proceedings” insert  “or digital markets
proceedings” ;

116.6.c

in paragraph 29, after “competition proceedings” insert  “or digital markets
proceedings” ;

116.6.d

in paragraph 30(1), after “competition proceedings” insert  “or digital
markets proceedings” .

##### Interpretation

###### Groups

117

117.1

This section  makes provision about groups for the purposes of  this Part .

117.2

An undertaking is part of a group if one or more bodies corporate which are
comprised in the undertaking are members of the same group as one or more
other bodies corporate.

117.3

For the purposes of  this Part , two bodies corporate are members of the same
group if—

117.3.a

one is the subsidiary of the other, or

117.3.b

both are subsidiaries of the same body corporate.

###### General interpretation

118

118.1

In  this Part —

      “ breach investigation ” means an investigation (including a conduct
investigation) into whether an undertaking is breaching or has breached a
requirement imposed on the undertaking under this Part by virtue of the
undertaking being, or having been, a designated undertaking;           “
conduct investigation ” has the meaning given by section  26 (1) ;           “
conduct investigation notice ” has the meaning given by section  26 (3) ;
“ conduct investigation period ” has the meaning given by  section 30 (2) ;
“ conduct requirements ” has the meaning given by  section 19 (3) ;
“ consumer ” has the meaning given by section 129(1) of EA 2002;           “
the court ”, except where otherwise stated, means—         in relation to
England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the High Court, and           in
relation to Scotland, the Court of Session;                 “ customer ”
includes a customer who is not a consumer;           “ designated undertaking
” means an undertaking which the CMA has designated as having SMS in respect
of a digital activity;           “ designation ” means the designation of an
undertaking as having SMS in respect of a relevant digital activity;
“ designation period ” has the meaning given by  section 15 (3) (e) ;
“ digital activity ” has the meaning given by  section 3 (1) ;           “
digital content ” has the meaning given by  section 330 ;           “ digital
markets functions ” means—         the functions that the CMA has under  this
Part , and           the CMA’s power to do anything that is calculated to
facilitate, or is conducive or incidental to, the performance of those
functions (see paragraph 20 of Schedule 4 to ERRA 2013 (additional powers));
“ digital markets investigation ” means—         an SMS investigation;
a breach investigation (including a conduct investigation);           a PCI
investigation;                 the “ digital markets investigation powers ”
are the powers that the CMA has under—         section 69  (power to require
information);           section 71  (power of access);           section 72
(power to interview);           section 74  (power to enter business premises
without a warrant);           section 75  (power to enter premises under a
warrant);           section 79  (reports by skilled persons);
“ enforcement order ” has the meaning given by  section 31 (1) ;           “
the FCA ” means the Financial Conduct Authority;           “ final offer
initiation notice ” has the meaning given by  section 40 (1) ;           “
final offer order ” has the meaning given by  section 41 (2) ;           “
final offer payment terms ” has the meaning given by  section 38 (1) ;
“ final offer period ” has the meaning given by  section 41 (3) ;           “
further SMS investigation ” has the meaning given by  section 10 (3) ;
“ grouped third parties ” has the meaning given by  section 39 (3) ;
“ grouped transactions ” has the meaning given by  section 39 (3) ;
“ information ” includes—         information in the form of a document,
whether in draft or final form;           information in any other form;
data, code, algorithms, estimates, forecasts, returns and explanations;
“ information notice ” has the meaning given by  section 69 (2) ;           “
initial SMS investigation ” has the meaning given by  section 9 (2) ;
“ interim enforcement order ” has the meaning given by  section 32 (1) ;
“ joined third parties ” has the meaning given by  section 39 (1) ;
“ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications;           “ officer ”, in
relation to a body corporate, means a director, manager, secretary or other
similar officer of the body;           “ PCI ” stands for “pro-competition
intervention”;           “ PCI decision ” has the meaning given by  section 49
(1) ;           “ PCI investigation ” has the meaning given by  section 47 (1)
;           “ PCI investigation notice ” has the meaning given by  section 48
(1) ;           “ PCI investigation period ” has the meaning given by  section
50 (1) ;           “ person ”, in addition to the meaning given by the
Interpretation Act 1978, includes an undertaking;           “ the PRA ” means
the Prudential Regulation Authority;           “ pro-competition order ” has
the meaning given by  section 46 (3) (a) ;           “ product ” means—
goods;           services;           digital content;                 the “
regulatory digital markets functions ” are—         the power to open an SMS
investigation under  section 9 (1)  (initial SMS investigation) or  section 10
(1)  or  (2)  (further SMS investigation);           the power to designate an
undertaking as having SMS under  Chapter 2  (strategic market status);
the power to revoke a designation under  Chapter 2  (strategic market status);
the power to impose or revoke conduct requirements under  Chapter 3  (conduct
requirements);           the power to make, replace or revoke PCIs under
Chapter 4  (pro-competition interventions);                 “ relevant digital
activity ” in relation to a designated undertaking means a digital activity in
respect of which the undertaking has been designated as having SMS;
the “ relevant service or digital content ” in relation to a digital activity
means the service or digital content the provision of which constitutes
(together with any other activity carried out for the purposes of that
provision) the digital activity;           “ SMS ” stands for “strategic
market status”;           “ SMS conditions ” are the conditions set out in
section 2 (2) ;           “ SMS decision notice ” has the meaning given by
section 14 (2) ;           “ SMS investigation ” means an initial SMS
investigation and a further SMS investigation;           “ SMS investigation
notice ” has the meaning given by  section 11 (1) ;           “ SMS
investigation period ” has the meaning given by  section 14 (2) ;           “
submission date ” has the meaning given by  section 40 (2) (d) ;           “
subsidiary ” has the meaning given by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006;
“ the Tribunal ” means the Competition Appeal Tribunal;           “ Tribunal
rules ” means rules under section 15 of EA 2002;           “ the turnover
condition ” has the meaning given by  section 7 ;           “ UK user ” and
“UK customer” mean any user or, as the case may be, customer who it is
reasonable to assume—         in the case of an individual, is normally in the
United Kingdom, and           in any other case, is established in the United
Kingdom;                 “ undertaking ” has the same meaning as it has for
the purposes of Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition: agreements, abuse of dominant
position etc);           “ user ” includes any person, legal or natural, and,
in relation to a digital activity, means any user of the relevant service or
digital content.

118.2

In  this Part —

118.2.a

references to “giving notice” or “giving a notice” are to giving notice or
giving a notice in writing;

118.2.b

references to “using” include, in relation to a service or digital content,
interacting, or carrying out activities that interact, in any way, directly or
indirectly, with the service or digital content;

118.2.c

references to the supply, provision, acquisition or use of goods or services
include the supply, provision, acquisition or use of digital content.

118.3

In this Part, a person is “connected to” an undertaking if that person—

118.3.a

is concerned in the management or control of the undertaking,

118.3.b

is employed by the undertaking, or

118.3.c

works for the undertaking in any other capacity.

### Competition

#### Anti-trust

##### The Chapter 1 and 2 prohibitions

###### Removal of requirement for agreements etc to be implemented in the UK

119

119.1

In Chapter 1 of Part 1 of CA 1998 (agreements), section 2 (agreements etc
preventing, restricting or distorting competition) is amended as follows.

119.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

119.2.1

Subject to section 3, agreements between undertakings, decisions by
associations of undertakings or concerted practices which have as their object
or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the
United Kingdom and which—

119.2.1.a

in the case of agreements, decisions or practices implemented, or intended to
be implemented in the United Kingdom, may affect trade in the United Kingdom,
or

119.2.1.b

in any other case, are likely to have an immediate, substantial and
foreseeable effect on trade within the United Kingdom,

are prohibited unless they are exempt in accordance with the provisions of
this Part.

119.3

Omit subsection (3).

119.4

The amendments made by this section do not have effect in relation to
agreements between undertakings (within the meaning of CA 1998) made before
the coming into force of  this section .

119.5

Subsection (5) of section 2 of CA 1998 applies for the purposes of  subsection
(4)  as it applies for the purposes of Part 1 of that Act.

###### Repeal of exclusions relating to the European Coal and Steel Community

120

120.1

Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition) is amended as follows.

120.2

In Schedule 3 (planning obligations and general exclusions) omit paragraph 8
(coal and steel).

120.3

In section 3 (Chapter 1: excluded agreements), in subsection (3)(b)(ii) omit
“, 2, 8”.

120.4

In section 19 (Chapter 2: excluded cases) omit subsection (3).

##### Investigations

###### Duty to preserve documents relevant to investigations

121

121.1

Chapter 3 of Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition: investigation and enforcement) is
amended as follows.

121.2

After section 25A insert—

############ Duty to preserve documents relevant to investigations

121.2.25B

121.2.25B.1

Subsection (2)  applies where a person knows or suspects that an investigation
by the CMA under section 25 is being or is likely to be carried out.

121.2.25B.2

The person must not—

121.2.25B.2.a

falsify, conceal, destroy or otherwise dispose of, or

121.2.25B.2.b

cause or permit the falsification, concealment, destruction or disposal of,

a document which the person knows or suspects is or would be relevant to the
investigation.

121.2.25B.3

In this section, the reference to concealing a document includes a reference
to destroying the means of reproducing information recorded otherwise than in
legible form.

121.3

In  section 40ZE  (enforcement of requirements: imposition of penalties)
(inserted by  paragraph 8  of  Schedule 10 ), in  subsection (1) , in
paragraph (a) , after “imposed on the person” insert  “by section 25B or” .

###### Production of information authorised by warrant

122

122.1

Section 28 of CA 1998 (power to enter business premises under a warrant) is
amended as follows.

122.2

In subsection (1)—

122.2.a

in paragraph (a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “there are on”
insert  “or accessible from” ;

122.2.b

in paragraph (b), in sub-paragraph (i), after “there are on” insert  “or
accessible from” ;

122.2.c

in paragraph (c), after “there are on” insert  “or accessible from” .

122.3

In subsection (2)—

122.3.a

in paragraph (f) omit “and which the named officer considers relates to any
matter relevant to the investigation,”;

122.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

122.3.b.g

to operate any equipment found on the premises for the purposes of producing
such information in such a form;

122.3.b.h

to require any person on the premises to give the named officer any assistance
the named officer may reasonably require (including for the purposes of
paragraphs (f) and  (g) );

122.3.b.i

to take copies of, or take possession of, anything produced in accordance with
paragraph (f) or  (g)  which the named officer considers relates to any matter
relevant to the investigation.

122.4

Section 28A of CA 1998 (power to enter domestic premises under a warrant) is
amended as follows.

122.5

In subsection (1)—

122.5.a

in paragraph (a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “there are on”
insert  “or accessible from” ;

122.5.b

in paragraph (b), in sub-paragraph (i), after “there are on” insert  “or
accessible from” .

122.6

In subsection (2)—

122.6.a

in paragraph (f) omit “and which the named officer considers relates to any
matter relevant to the investigation,”;

122.6.b

after that paragraph insert—

122.6.b.g

to operate any equipment found on the premises for the purposes of producing
such information in such a form;

122.6.b.h

to require any person on the premises to give the named officer any assistance
the named officer may reasonably require (including for the purposes of
paragraphs (f) and  (g) );

122.6.b.i

to take copies of, or take possession of, anything produced in accordance with
paragraph (f) or  (g)  which the named officer considers relates to any matter
relevant to the investigation.

122.7

In section 30 of CA 1998 (privileged communications), after subsection (1)
insert—

122.7.1A

Nothing in section 28 or 28A authorises an officer to produce or take
possession of, or make copies of or take extracts from, anything which, by
virtue of subsection (1), a person could not be required to produce or
disclose under this Part.

###### Additional powers of seizure from domestic premises

123

123.1

Part 2 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 (powers of seizure) is
amended as follows.

123.2

In section 50 (additional powers of seizure from premises), in subsection (6),
after “section 28(2)(b)” insert  “or 28A(2)(b)” .

123.3

In section 57(1) (retention of seized items), in paragraph (n), for “section
28(7)” substitute  “sections 28(7) and 28A(8)” .

123.4

In section 63(2) (powers of seizure: copies), in paragraph (h), after “section
28(2)(f)” insert  “or  (g)  or 28A(2)(f) or  (g) ” .

123.5

In section 64(3) (meaning of “ appropriate judicial authority ”), in paragraph
(a)(iii), for “section 28(2)” substitute  “sections 28(2) and 28A(2)” .

123.6

In section 65(2) (meaning of “ legal privilege ”), in paragraph (a)—

123.6.a

for “power” substitute  “powers” ;

123.6.b

after “section 28(2)” insert  “or 28A(2)” .

123.7

In section 66(5) (general interpretation of Part 2), in paragraph (h), for
“section 28(2)(c)” substitute  “sections 28(2)(c) and 28A(2)(c)” .

123.8

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (powers of seizure: powers to which section 50
applies), in paragraph 67 (the Competition Act 1998), for “section 28(2)”
substitute  “sections 28(2) and 28A(2)” .

##### Proceedings before the Competition Appeal Tribunal

###### Standard of review on appeals against interim measures directions

124

124.1

In section 46 of CA 1998 (appealable decisions), in subsection (3)—

124.1.a

after paragraph (h) insert—

124.1.a.ha

to make directions under section 35,

124.1.a.hb

not to make directions under section 35,

;

124.1.b

in the words after paragraph (i), for “, 33 or 35” substitute  “or 33” .

124.2

Schedule 8 to CA 1998 (appeals) is amended as follows.

124.3

In paragraph 3 (decisions of the tribunal: merits-based appeals), in sub-
paragraph (A1)—

124.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “or (h)” substitute  “, (h), (ha) or (hb)” ;

124.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c), (d) or (e)” .

124.4

In paragraph 3A (decisions of the tribunal: appeals on judicial review
principles), in sub-paragraph (1)—

124.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “or (h)” substitute  “, (h), (ha) or (hb)” ;

124.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c), (d) or (e)” .

###### Declaratory relief

125

Schedule 3  makes provision allowing the Competition Appeal Tribunal to grant
declaratory relief.

###### Exemplary damages

126

126.1

In section 47C of CA 1998 (collective proceedings: damages and costs), before
subsection (2) insert—

126.1.1

The Tribunal may not award exemplary damages in collective proceedings.

126.2

In Schedule 8A of CA 1998 (further provision about claims in respect of loss
or damage before a court or the Tribunal)—

126.2.a

in Part 4 (cartels), in paragraph 15 (liability of immunity recipients)—

126.2.a.i

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

126.2.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), for “in respect of
loss and damage suffered by” substitute  “to” ;

126.2.a.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

126.2.a.iii.2

But an immunity recipient is not liable (either alone or jointly) by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1)(e) to pay exemplary damages.

;

126.2.b

omit Part 8 (exemplary damages);

126.2.c

in Part 10 (application), in paragraph 42, in sub-paragraph (1) omit “, 8”.

126.3

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to competition
claims, competition proceedings, claims for contribution arising from
competition claims and proceedings relating to such claims to the extent that—

126.3.a

the claims and proceedings relate to an infringement of competition law that
takes place after the coming into force of this section, and

126.3.b

the loss or damage (if any) to which the claims or proceedings relate is
suffered after the coming into force of this section.

126.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) , where an infringement of competition law
takes place over a period of two or more days it is to be taken to have taken
place on the first of those days.

126.5

Terms used in  subsection (3)  and in Schedule 8A to CA 1998 have the same
meaning in  subsection (3)  as they do in that Schedule (see Part 1 of that
Schedule).

#### Mergers

##### Relevant merger situations and special merger situations

127

Schedule 4  makes provision amending the thresholds in Part 3 of EA 2002
(mergers) for the creation of relevant merger situations and special merger
situations.

##### Fast-track references under sections 22 and 33 of EA 2002

128

Schedule 5  makes provision amending Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers) to include
provision about the making of fast-track references under section 22 or 33 of
that Act.

##### Mergers of energy network enterprises

129

Schedule 6  makes provision amending Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers) and Schedule
16 to the Energy Act 2023 (mergers of energy network enterprises) in relation
to mergers involving energy network enterprises.

##### Mergers involving newspaper enterprises and foreign powers

130

130.1

Schedule 7  makes provision for the purposes of preventing foreign powers from
gaining control or influence over newspaper enterprises.

130.2

The amendments made by that Schedule—

130.2.a

apply in relation to enterprises ceasing to be distinct on or after the
effective date, but not in relation to enterprises ceasing to be distinct
before the effective date;

130.2.b

apply in relation to arrangements in progress or in contemplation on or after
the effective date which, if carried into effect, would result in the creation
of a foreign state newspaper merger situation by virtue of enterprises ceasing
to be distinct on or after the effective date.

130.3

In  subsection (2) , “ the effective date ” means 13 March 2024.

##### Mutual agreements to extend time-limits: duty to make reference cases

131

131.1

Chapter 1 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: duty to make references) is amended
as follows.

131.2

In section 39 (time-limits for investigations and reports)—

131.2.a

before subsection (3) insert—

131.2.a.2A

Where the CMA and the persons carrying on the enterprises concerned agree—

131.2.a.2A.a

that the period within which a report under section 38 is to be prepared and
published (the “original period”) should be extended, and

131.2.a.2A.b

the duration of the period by which the original period should be extended
(the “extension period”),

the CMA may extend the original period by the extension period.

;

131.2.b

in subsection (7), after “subsection” insert  “ (2A) ,” ;

131.2.c

after that subsection insert—

131.2.c.7A

An extension under subsection  (2A)  continues in force until—

131.2.c.7A.a

the end of the extension period, or

131.2.c.7A.b

an earlier time if, before the end of that period—

131.2.c.7A.b.i

the CMA and the persons carrying on the enterprises concerned agree that the
extension should be cancelled with effect from the earlier time, and

131.2.c.7A.b.ii

the CMA publishes its decision to cancel the extension with effect from that
time.

131.3

In section 40 (section 39: supplementary)—

131.3.a

for subsection (3) substitute—

131.3.a.3

A period extended under any subsection of section 39 may also be extended
under any other subsection of that section.

;

131.3.b

in subsection (5), for “section 39(3)” substitute  “section 39 (2A) , (3)” .

131.4

In Chapter 5 of Part 3 (mergers: supplementary), in section 107(2) (further
publicity requirements), in paragraph (d), for “section 39(8)(b)” substitute
“section 39(7A)(b) or (8)(b)” .

##### Mutual agreements to extend time-limits: public interest cases

132

132.1

Chapter 2 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: public interest cases) is amended as
follows.

132.2

In section 51 (time-limits for investigations and reports by CMA)—

132.2.a

before subsection (3) insert—

132.2.a.2A

Where —

132.2.a.2A.a

the CMA and the persons carrying on the enterprises concerned agree—

132.2.a.2A.a.i

that the period within which a report under section 50 is to be prepared and
published (the “original period”) should be extended, and

132.2.a.2A.a.ii

the duration of the period by which the original period should be extended
(the “extension period”), and

132.2.a.2A.b

the Secretary of State consents to the original period being extended by the
extension period,

the CMA may extend the original period by the extension period.

;

132.2.b

in subsection (7), after “subsection” insert  “ (2A) ,” ;

132.2.c

after that subsection insert—

132.2.c.7A

An extension under subsection  (2A)  continues in force until—

132.2.c.7A.a

the end of the extension period, or

132.2.c.7A.b

an earlier time if, before the end of that period—

132.2.c.7A.b.i

the CMA and the persons carrying on the enterprises concerned agree that the
extension should be cancelled with effect from the earlier time,

132.2.c.7A.b.ii

the Secretary of State consents to the cancellation of the extension with
effect from that time, and

132.2.c.7A.b.iii

the CMA publishes its decision to cancel the extension with effect from that
time.

132.3

In section 52 (section 51: supplementary)—

132.3.a

for subsection (3) substitute—

132.3.a.3

A period extended under any subsection of section 51 may also be extended
under any other subsection of that section.

;

132.3.b

in subsection (5), for “section 51(3)” substitute  “section 51 (2A) , (3)” .

132.4

In Chapter 5 of Part 3 (mergers: supplementary), in section 107(2)(j), for
“section 51(8)(b)” substitute  “section 51(7A)(b) or (8)(b)” .

##### Publication of merger notices online

133

In Chapter 5 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: supplementary), in section 96(5)
(merger notices), for “in the London, Edinburgh and Belfast Gazettes”
substitute  “online” .

#### Markets

##### Market studies: removal of time-limit on pre-reference consultation

134

134.1

Chapter 1 of Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations:
references) is amended as follows.

134.2

In section 131B (market studies and the making of decisions to refer: time-
limits) omit subsections (1) to (3).

134.3

In section 131C (time-limits under section 131B: supplementary)—

134.3.a

in subsection (1) omit paragraph (a);

134.3.b

in subsection (2) omit paragraph (a) and the “or” after it.

##### Power to make a reference after previously deciding not to do so

135

135.1

Section 131B of EA 2002 (market studies and the making of decisions to refer:
time limits) is amended as follows.

135.2

In the heading, after “time-limits” insert  “etc” .

135.3

In subsection (7), for “This section is” substitute  “Subsections (4) to (6)
are” .

135.4

After subsection (7) insert—

135.4.8

Where the CMA—

135.4.8.a

has published a market study notice, and

135.4.8.b

has decided not to make a reference under section 131 in relation to the
matter specified in the notice,

the CMA may subsequently make a reference under section 131 in relation to the
matter (without first publishing a market study notice in relation to the
matter) only where  subsection (9)  applies.

135.4.9

This subsection applies where—

135.4.9.a

the reference under section 131 is made two years or more after the
publication of the market study report in relation to the market study notice,
or

135.4.9.b

there has been a material change in circumstances since the preparation of the
report.

##### Scope of market investigations

136

136.1

Chapter 1 of Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations:
references) is amended as follows.

136.2

In section 133 (contents of market investigation references)—

136.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

136.2.a.1A

A market investigation reference may be framed so as to require the group
constituted by the chair of the CMA in respect of the reference to confine its
investigation into the effects of features of markets in the United Kingdom
for goods or services of a description specified in the reference to the
effects of particular features of such markets.

136.2.a.1B

For the purposes of  subsection (1A) , “ particular features ” means features
specified in the reference.

;

136.2.b

in subsection (2), for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “For the
purposes of  subsection (1A) , a reference may (for example) specify or
describe features that exist in connection with—” .

136.3

In section 134 (questions to be decided on market investigation references)—

136.3.a

in subsection (1), for “feature, or combination of features,” substitute
“relevant feature” ;

136.3.b

in subsection (2), for “feature, or combination of features,” substitute
“relevant feature” ;

136.3.c

after subsection (2A) insert—

136.3.c.2B

In subsections (1) and (2), “ relevant feature ” means—

136.3.c.2B.a

any feature of a relevant market which is not excluded from investigation by
virtue of section 133 (1A) , or

136.3.c.2B.b

a combination of such features.

;

136.3.d

in subsection (7), after “features” insert  “concerned” .

##### Acceptance of undertakings at any stage of a market study or investigation

137

Schedule 8  makes provision allowing the CMA to accept undertakings under Part
4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations) at any stage during a
market study or investigation.

##### Final undertakings and orders: power to conduct trials

138

138.1

Schedule 9  makes provision amending Part 4 of EA 2002 allowing the CMA or the
Secretary of State to conduct trials to assess the likely effectiveness of
final undertakings and orders that the CMA or the Secretary of State is minded
to accept or impose under that Part.

138.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend—

138.2.a

any sectoral enactment, or

138.2.b

section 168 of EA 2002 (regulated markets),

in connection with provision made by  Schedule 9 .

138.3

The power to make regulations under  subsection (2)  includes power to make
provision for the CMA or Secretary of State to be able to modify, or request
that another person modifies, any agreement, arrangement, condition, licence,
statement (or anything of a similar nature) in connection with an
implementation trial measure (within the meaning of Part 4 of EA 2002, as
amended by  Schedule 9 ).

138.4

But so far as the power to make regulations under  subsection (2)  is
exercised to amend a sectoral enactment that is mentioned in section 168 of EA
2002 (regulated markets), the power may only make provision in connection with
a relevant action mentioned in subsection (3) of that section.

138.5

For the purposes of this section the sectoral enactments are—

138.5.a

the Civil Aviation Act 2012;

138.5.b

the Health and Social Care Act 2012;

138.5.c

the Transport Act 2000;

138.5.d

the Chiropractors Act 1994;

138.5.e

the Railways Act 1993;

138.5.f

the Osteopaths Act 1993;

138.5.g

the Water Industry Act 1991;

138.5.h

the Broadcasting Act 1990;

138.5.i

the Electricity Act 1989;

138.5.j

the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988;

138.5.k

the Gas Act 1986;

138.5.l

the Patents Act 1977;

138.5.m

the Registered Designs Act 1949;

138.5.n

the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 ( S.I. 2006/3336
(N.I. 21)) ;

138.5.o

the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2)) ;

138.5.p

the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1)) .

138.6

The Secretary of State must, before making regulations under  subsection (2)
that—

138.6.a

amend a sectoral enactment, consult the relevant sectoral authority;

138.6.b

amend section 168 of EA 2002, consult any relevant sectoral authority whom the
Secretary of State considers is likely to have an interest in the amendment.

138.7

For the purposes of  subsection (6)  the relevant sectoral authorities are—

138.7.a

in relation to the Civil Aviation Act 2012, the Civil Aviation Authority;

138.7.b

in relation to the Health and Social Care Act 2012, NHS England;

138.7.c

in relation to the Transport Act 2000, the Civil Aviation Authority;

138.7.d

in relation to the Chiropractors Act 1994, the General Chiropractic Council;

138.7.e

in relation to the Railways Act 1993, the Office of Rail and Road;

138.7.f

in relation to the Osteopaths Act 1993, the General Osteopathic Council;

138.7.g

in relation to the Water Industry Act 1991, the Water Services Regulation
Authority;

138.7.h

in relation to the Broadcasting Act 1990, the Office of Communications;

138.7.i

in relation to the Electricity Act 1989 and the Gas Act 1986, the Gas and
Electricity Markets Authority;

138.7.j

in relation to the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, the Patents Act
1977 and the Registered Designs Act 1949, the Comptroller-General of Patents,
Designs and Trade Marks;

138.7.k

in relation to the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006,
the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 and the Electricity (Northern Ireland)
Order 1992, the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation.

138.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

138.8.a

amend  subsection (5)  so as to add or remove an enactment;

138.8.b

amend  subsection (7)  so as to add, vary or remove an entry.

138.9

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Duty of CMA to monitor undertakings and orders

139

139.1

Chapter 3 of Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations:
enforcement) is amended as follows.

139.2

In section 161 (final orders: Part 4), in subsection (5)—

139.2.a

after “advises” insert  “, in accordance with section 162(3) or  section 162A
(8) ,” ;

139.2.b

omit “by reason of a change of circumstances”.

139.3

In section 162 (duty of CMA to monitor undertakings and orders: Part 4)—

139.3.a

in the heading, after “monitor” insert  “the carrying out of” ;

139.3.b

omit subsections (5) to (7).

139.4

After that section insert—

########### Duty of CMA to monitor effectiveness of undertakings and orders: Part 4

139.4.162A

139.4.162A.1

The CMA must keep under review the effectiveness of enforcement undertakings
accepted under this Part and enforcement orders made under this Part.

139.4.162A.2

The CMA must, whenever requested to do so by the Secretary of State and
otherwise from time to time, prepare a report of its findings under
subsection (1) .

139.4.162A.3

The CMA must—

139.4.162A.3.a

give a copy of any report prepared by it under  subsection (2)  to the
Secretary of State, and

139.4.162A.3.b

publish the report.

139.4.162A.4

Subsection (5)  applies, in relation to an adverse effect on competition
identified in a report mentioned in section 138(1), where—

139.4.162A.4.a

the report was published within the previous 10 years,

139.4.162A.4.b

the CMA last took action in accordance with section 138(2) or  subsection (5)
of this section no less than two years ago, and

139.4.162A.4.c

the CMA concludes, as a result of a review under  subsection (1) , that the
action mentioned in  paragraph (b)  has been ineffective for the purposes
mentioned in that section.

139.4.162A.5

The CMA must take such action as it considers appropriate for the purposes
mentioned in section 138(2) in relation to—

139.4.162A.5.a

any possible variation or release by the CMA of an enforcement undertaking
accepted by it;

139.4.162A.5.b

any possible new enforcement undertaking to be accepted by the CMA so as to
supersede another enforcement undertaking given to it;

139.4.162A.5.c

any possible variation or revocation by the CMA of an enforcement order made
by it;

139.4.162A.5.d

any possible enforcement undertaking to be accepted by the CMA instead of an
enforcement order made by it, or any possible enforcement order to be made by
the CMA instead of an enforcement undertaking accepted by it.

139.4.162A.6

Where the CMA decides to take action under  subsection (5) , the CMA must take
the action within the period of six months beginning with the date on which
that decision is published under section 172(2) (h) .

139.4.162A.7

Subsection (8)  applies, in relation to an adverse effect on competition or an
effect adverse to the public interest identified in a report mentioned in
section 146(1) or 146A(1) (as the case may be), where—

139.4.162A.7.a

the report was laid before each House of Parliament in accordance with section
172(10) within the previous 10 years,

139.4.162A.7.b

the Secretary of State last took action in accordance with section 142(2) or
147A(2) (as the case may be) no less than two years ago, and

139.4.162A.7.c

the CMA concludes, as a result of a review under  subsection (1) , that action
taken in accordance with that section has been ineffective for the purposes
mentioned in that section.

139.4.162A.8

The CMA must give the Secretary of State such advice as it considers
appropriate for the purposes mentioned in section 147(2) or 147A(2) (as the
case may be) in relation to—

139.4.162A.8.a

any possible variation or release by the Secretary of State of an enforcement
undertaking accepted by the Secretary of State;

139.4.162A.8.b

any possible new enforcement undertaking to be accepted by the Secretary of
State under that section so as to supersede another enforcement undertaking
given to the Secretary of State;

139.4.162A.8.c

any possible variation or revocation by the Secretary of State of an
enforcement order made by the Secretary of State;

139.4.162A.8.d

any possible enforcement undertaking to be accepted by the Secretary of State
instead of an enforcement order, or any possible enforcement order to be made
by the Secretary of State instead of an enforcement undertaking accepted under
that section.

139.5

Chapter 4 of Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations:
supplementary) is amended as follows.

139.6

In section 169 (certain duties of relevant authorities to consult: Part 4), in
subsection (6), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “relevant decision”,
after  sub-paragraph (iv)  (inserted by  paragraph 10 (3)  of  Schedule 9 )
insert—

139.6.v

to take action under  section 162A (5) ; and

.

139.7

In section 172 (further publicity requirements: Part 4)—

139.7.a

in subsection (2)—

139.7.a.i

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (f);

139.7.a.ii

at the end insert

; and

139.7.a.ii.h

any decision by it to take action under  section 162A (5) .

;

139.7.b

after subsection (10) insert—

139.7.b.11

Where the Secretary of State has decided, in accordance with the CMA’s advice
under section 162(3) or  162A (8) , to accept or release an undertaking under
section 159, or to make or revoke an order under section 161, the Secretary of
State must, after the acceptance or release of the undertaking or (as the case
may be) the making or revocation of the order, lay details of the Secretary of
State’s decision and the reasons for it, and the CMA’s advice, before each
House of Parliament.

139.8

In section 177 (excisions from reports: Part 4)—

139.8.a

in the heading, after “reports” insert  “etc” ;

139.8.b

in subsection (1)—

139.8.b.i

the words from “the Secretary of State” to the end become paragraph (a);

139.8.b.ii

after that paragraph insert

;

139.8.b.ii.b

the Secretary of State is under a duty to lay the CMA’s advice under section
162(3) or 162A(8) before each House of Parliament.

139.8.c

in subsection (2)—

139.8.c.i

after “report” insert  “or advice” ;

139.8.c.ii

after “publication of the matter” insert  “, or the inclusion of it in the
advice laid before Parliament,” .

##### Taking action in relation to regulated markets

140

140.1

In Chapter 4 of Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations:
supplementary), section 168 (regulated markets) is amended as follows.

140.2

In subsection (3) omit paragraph (j).

140.3

In subsection (4)—

140.3.a

in paragraph (g), for “the duty of the Director General of Electricity Supply
for Northern Ireland under article 6 of that Order” substitute  “the objective
and duties of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation under
Article 12 of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I.
6)) ” ;

140.3.b

omit paragraph (l);

140.3.c

in paragraph (m), for “the duties of the Director General of Gas for Northern
Ireland under article 5 of that Order” substitute  “the objective and duties
of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation under Article 14 of
the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003” ;

140.3.d

in paragraph (r), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

140.4

In subsection (5), in paragraph (ia), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England”
.

#### Cartels

##### Production of information authorised by warrant

141

141.1

Section 194 of EA 2002 (power to enter premises under a warrant) is amended as
follows.

141.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (a), after “there are on” insert  “or
accessible from” .

141.3

In subsection (2)—

141.3.a

in paragraph (d) omit “and which the named officer considers relates to any
matter relevant to the investigation,”;

141.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

141.3.b.e

to operate any equipment found on the premises for the purposes of producing
such information in such a form;

141.3.b.f

to require any person on the premises to give the named officer any assistance
the named officer may reasonably require (including for the purposes of
paragraphs (d) and  (e) );

141.3.b.g

to take copies of, or seize, anything produced in accordance with paragraph
(d) or  (e)  which the named officer considers relates to any matter relevant
to the investigation.

141.4

In section 196 of EA 2002 (privileged information etc), after subsection (2)
insert—

141.4.2A

Nothing in section 194 authorises an officer to produce or take possession of,
or make copies of or take extracts from, anything which, by virtue of
subsections (1) or (2), a person could not be required to disclose or produce
under section 193 or 194.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Attendance of witnesses etc

142

142.1

Section 26A of CA 1998 (investigations: power to ask questions) is amended as
follows.

142.2

In subsection (1)—

142.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a) omit “who has a connection with a relevant
undertaking”;

142.2.b

in paragraph (a), after “at a place” insert  “or in a manner (which may be
remote)” .

142.3

In subsection (2), for “each” substitute  “any” .

142.4

For subsection (6) substitute—

142.4.6

For the purposes of this section, an individual has a current connection with
an undertaking if, at the time in question, the individual is—

142.4.6.a

concerned in the management or control of the undertaking, or

142.4.6.b

employed by, or otherwise working for, the undertaking.

142.5

In section 109(1) of EA 2002 (attendance of witnesses and production of
documents etc: Part 3), in paragraph (a) for “place” substitute  “at a place,
or in a manner (which may be remote),” .

142.6

In section 174(3) of EA 2002 (attendance of witnesses and production of
documents etc: Part 4), in paragraph (a) for “place” substitute  “at a place,
or in a manner (which may be remote),” .

##### Civil penalties etc in connection with competition matters

143

143.1

Schedule 10  makes provision for, and in connection with, the imposition of
civil penalties in relation to investigations under—

143.1.a

Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition);

143.1.b

Parts 3 (mergers) and 4 (market studies and market investigations) of EA 2002.

143.2

Schedule 11  makes provision for, and in connection with, the imposition of
civil penalties in relation to breaches of—

143.2.a

commitments and directions under Part 1 of CA 1998;

143.2.b

undertakings and orders under Parts 3 and 4 of EA 2002.

143.3

Schedule 12  makes provision providing that certain functions being conferred
on the CMA by Schedules  10  and  11  are not exercisable concurrently by
sectoral regulators.

##### Service and extra-territoriality of notices under CA 1998 and EA 2002

144

Schedule 13  makes provision about—

144.a

the service of documents under Chapter 3 of Part 1 of CA 1998 (investigation
and enforcement) and Parts 3 (mergers) and 4 (market studies and market
investigations) of EA 2002;

144.b

the extra-territorial application of notices under sections 26 and 40ZD of CA
1998 and sections 109(2) and (3) and 174(4) and (5) of EA 2002.

##### Orders and regulations under CA 1998 and EA 2002

145

Schedule 14  makes provision about the making of orders and regulations under—

145.a

CA 1998, and

145.b

Parts 3 (mergers) and 4 (market studies and market investigations) of EA 2002.

##### Meaning of “working day” in Parts 3 and 4 of EA 2002

146

146.1

Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers) is amended as follows.

146.2

In Chapter 1 (duty to make references)—

146.2.a

in section 25 (extension of time limits)—

146.2.a.i

in subsection (1), after “20” insert  “working” ;

146.2.a.ii

in subsection (5), in paragraph (b), after “10” insert  “working” ;

146.2.b

omit section 32 (supplementary provision for the purposes of section 25);

146.2.c

in section 34ZA(3) (time limits for decisions about references) omit the
definition of “working day”;

146.2.d

in section 34ZB (extension of time limits) omit subsection (9);

146.2.e

in section 34ZC (sections 34ZA and 34ZB: supplementary) omit subsection (9).

146.3

In Chapter 2 (public interest cases)—

146.3.a

in section 54 (decision of Secretary of State in public interest cases)—

146.3.a.i

in subsection (5), after “30” insert  “working” ;

146.3.a.ii

omit subsection (8);

146.3.b

in section 56 (competition cases where intervention on public interest grounds
ceases)—

146.3.b.i

in subsection (4), in paragraph (b), after “20” insert  “working” ;

146.3.b.ii

omit subsection (5).

146.4

In Chapter 4 (enforcement), in section 73A (time limits for consideration of
undertakings) omit subsection (12).

146.5

In Chapter 5 (supplementary)—

146.5.a

in section 129(1) (other interpretative provisions), at the appropriate place
insert—

      “ working day ” means any day other than—         a Saturday or Sunday,
or           a day that is a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom
under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

;

146.5.b

in section 130 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate place
insert—

    Working day Section 129(1)

.

146.6

In Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations), in section
151 (public interest intervention cases: interaction with general procedure)—

146.6.a

in subsection (3), after “20” insert  “working” ;

146.6.b

in subsection (5), after “20” insert  “working” ;

146.6.c

omit subsection (6);

146.6.d

at the end insert—

146.6.d.7

In this section, “ working day ” means any day other than—

146.6.d.7.a

a Saturday or Sunday, or

146.6.d.7.b

a day that is a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom under the
Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

146.7

In regulation 2(1) of the Enterprise Act 2002 (Merger Prenotification)
Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/1369 ), for the definition of “working day”
substitute—

      “ working day ” means any day other than—         a Saturday or Sunday,
or           a day that is a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom
under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

### Enforcement of consumer protection law

#### Overview

##### Overview

147

147.1

This Part  confers enforcement powers, and makes provision about other
remedies, in connection with infringements of consumer protection law.

147.2

Chapter 2  provides for the kinds of infringements in respect of which
enforcement powers conferred by  Chapter 3  or  4  are available.

147.3

Chapter 3 —

147.3.a

confers powers on courts to make consumer protection orders, and

147.3.b

provides for the acceptance of undertakings as an alternative to the making of
such orders.

147.4

Chapter 4  confers powers on the CMA in connection with certain kinds of
infringements, including powers of the CMA to impose monetary penalties.

147.5

Chapter 5  contains general provisions about monetary penalties imposed under
Chapter 3  or  4 .

147.6

Chapter 6  amends Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 in relation to the giving of
information notices.

147.7

Chapter 7  contains miscellaneous provisions and  Chapter 8  contains
interpretative provisions.

#### Relevant infringements

##### Relevant infringements

148

148.1

A commercial practice is a relevant infringement for the purposes of  Chapter
3  or  4  if it—

148.1.a

harms the collective interests of consumers,

148.1.b

meets the UK connection condition (see  section 149 ), and

148.1.c

meets the specified prohibition condition (see  section 150 ).

148.2

In this Part—

      “ commercial practice ” means an act or omission by a trader relating to
the promotion or supply of—         the trader’s goods, services or digital
content to a consumer,           another trader’s goods, services or digital
content to a consumer, or           a consumer’s goods, services or digital
content to the trader or another person;                 “ consumer ” means an
individual acting for purposes that are wholly or mainly outside the
individual’s business;           “ trader ” means—         a person (“ P ”)
acting for purposes relating to P’s business, or           a person acting in
the name of, or on behalf of, P for purposes relating to P’s business.

148.3

It is immaterial for the purposes of the definition of “commercial practice”
in subsection  (2)  whether the act or omission takes place—

148.3.a

at the time of the promotion or supply in question, or

148.3.b

before or after that time.

148.4

It is immaterial for the purposes of the definition of “trader” in subsection
(2) —

148.4.a

in relation to paragraph (a) of that definition, whether P is acting
personally or through another person acting in P’s name or on P’s behalf;

148.4.b

in relation to paragraph (b) of that definition, whether or not the purposes
relating to P’s business are the only or main purposes for which the person is
acting.

148.5

For the purposes of  this Part —

148.5.a

references to consumers include persons who may become consumers in the
future;

148.5.b

the collective interests of consumers are capable of being harmed by a single
act or omission (as well as by repeated acts or omissions).

##### The UK connection condition

149

149.1

A commercial practice meets the UK connection condition for the purposes of
section 148  if at least one of the following conditions is met—

149.1.a

the trader has a place of business in the United Kingdom;

149.1.b

the trader carries on business in the United Kingdom;

149.1.c

the commercial practice occurs in the carrying on of activities by the trader
that are, by any means, directed to consumers in the United Kingdom.

149.2

It is immaterial for the purposes of subsection  (1) (c)  whether the
activities are carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

##### The specified prohibition condition

150

150.1

A commercial practice meets the specified prohibition condition for the
purposes of  section 148  as it applies for the purposes of  Chapter 3  if the
commercial practice is—

150.1.a

in breach of an enactment listed in Part 1 of  Schedule 15  (to the extent
specified), or

150.1.b

in breach of an obligation or rule of law listed in  Part 2  of that Schedule.

150.2

A commercial practice meets the specified prohibition condition for the
purposes of  section 148  as it applies for the purposes of Chapter 4 if it is
in breach of an enactment listed in  Schedule 16  (to the extent specified).

150.3

In the Table listing enactments in Part 1 of  Schedule 15 —

150.3.a

the first column lists the enactments;

150.3.b

the corresponding entry in the second column specifies the authorised
enforcers in relation to the enactment for the purposes of  section 153 ;

150.3.c

the third column provides information about transitional provision etc in
relation to certain enactments.

150.4

In the Table listing obligations and rules of law in  Part 2  of  Schedule 15
—

150.4.a

the first column describes the obligations or rules of law;

150.4.b

the corresponding entry in the second column specifies the authorised
enforcers in relation to the obligation or rule of law for the purposes of
section 153 .

#### Consumer protection orders and undertakings

##### Enforcers for purposes of Chapter

###### Enforcers

151

151.1

Each of the following is a public designated enforcer for the purposes of
this Chapter —

151.1.a

the CMA;

151.1.b

every local weights and measures authority in Great Britain;

151.1.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland;

151.1.d

the Civil Aviation Authority;

151.1.e

the Financial Conduct Authority;

151.1.f

the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority;

151.1.g

the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;

151.1.h

the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;

151.1.i

the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

151.1.j

an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);

151.1.k

the Information Commissioner;

151.1.l

the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;

151.1.m

the Office of Communications;

151.1.n

the Office of Rail and Road;

151.1.o

the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;

151.1.p

the Secretary of State;

151.1.q

the Water Services Regulation Authority.

151.2

The Consumers’ Association is a private designated enforcer for the purposes
of  this Chapter .

151.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  subsection (1)  or  (2)  so
as to—

151.3.a

add or remove a person as a public designated enforcer;

151.3.b

add or remove a person as a private designated enforcer;

151.3.c

vary the entry of a person as a public or private designated enforcer.

151.4

The power under  subsection (3) (a)  to add a person as a public designated
enforcer is exercisable only if the Secretary of State considers that the
person is a public body that has, as one of their purposes, the protection of
the collective interests of consumers.

151.5

The power under  subsection (3) (b)  to add a person as a private designated
enforcer is exercisable only if the Secretary of State considers that the
person—

151.5.a

is not a public body,

151.5.b

satisfies the designation criteria in  section 152 , and

151.5.c

has, as one of their purposes, the protection of the collective interests of
consumers.

151.6

The power under subsection  (3) (a)  and  (c)  to remove a person as a public
designated enforcer, or to vary the entry of such a person, does not apply so
far as relating to the persons listed in paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  of
subsection  (1) .

151.7

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Designation criteria

152

152.1

These are the designation criteria in respect of a person (“ P ”) for the
purposes of  section 151 (5) (b) —

152.1.a

P is constituted, managed and controlled in such a way as to be expected to
act independently, impartially and with integrity;

152.1.b

P has established procedures to ensure that any potential conflicts of
interest are properly dealt with;

152.1.c

P has demonstrated experience, competence and expertise in promoting or
protecting the collective interests of consumers;

152.1.d

P has demonstrated the ability to protect the interests of consumers by
promoting high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the conduct of
business in relation to consumers;

152.1.e

P has the capability to investigate infringements and carry out enforcement
procedures under  this Chapter ;

152.1.f

P is ready and willing to follow best practice in enforcement;

152.1.g

P is ready and willing to co-operate with other enforcers and relevant
persons.

152.2

P does not fail to meet the criteria in  subsection (1) (a)  by reason only of
a connection with another person carrying on a business of a kind that could
be affected (directly or indirectly) by action taken under  this Chapter  if—

152.2.a

the other person does not control P, and

152.2.b

the profits of the other person’s business are used for the purposes of
furthering the objectives of P.

152.3

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (g) —

152.3.a

“relevant persons” are any persons responsible for the regulation of matters
in respect of which acts or omissions may constitute a relevant infringement;

152.3.b

co-operation includes, in particular—

152.3.b.i

sharing of information (so far as legally permitted), and

152.3.b.ii

participating in arrangements to co-ordinate action under  this Part .

##### Applications for enforcement orders and interim enforcement orders

###### Applications

153

153.1

An enforcer may (subject to  subsection (2) ) apply to the appropriate court
for an enforcement order or an interim enforcement order if the enforcer
considers that—

153.1.a

a person has engaged in, is engaging in or is likely to engage in a commercial
practice which constitutes a relevant infringement, or

153.1.b

a person is an accessory to such a practice.

153.2

An enforcer may make an application in respect of a relevant infringement only
if—

153.2.a

in the case of a commercial practice in breach of an enactment listed in the
first column of the Table in  Part 1  of  Schedule 15 , the enforcer is an
authorised enforcer in respect of that enactment in accordance with the second
column of that Table;

153.2.b

in the case of a commercial practice in breach of an obligation or rule of law
listed in the first column of the Table in  Part 2  of  Schedule 15 , the
enforcer is an authorised enforcer in respect of that obligation or rule of
law in accordance with the second column of that Table.

153.3

An application for an enforcement order or an interim enforcement order—

153.3.a

must be made in respect of the person the enforcer considers falls within
subsection (1) (a)  or  (b)  (“ the respondent ”), and

153.3.b

must (where known) name the respondent.

153.4

An application by a public designated enforcer for an enforcement order may,
subject to subsection (5), include an application for the respondent to pay a
monetary penalty.

153.5

In the case of a respondent within subsection (1)(a), an application under
subsection (4) may be made only in respect of a commercial practice that the
enforcer considers a person has engaged, or is engaging, in (but not in
respect of a practice that the enforcer considers a person is likely to engage
in).

###### CMA directions to other enforcers

154

154.1

This section  applies where it appears to the CMA that another enforcer
intends to make an application for an enforcement order or an interim
enforcement order.

154.2

The CMA may direct that an application for such an order in respect of a
particular relevant infringement—

154.2.a

may be made only by the CMA,

154.2.b

may be made only by such other enforcer as may be specified in the direction,
or

154.2.c

is not to be made by any enforcer.

154.3

A direction under  subsection (2) —

154.3.a

does not prevent the acceptance of an undertaking under  section 163  by the
CMA or another enforcer;

154.3.b

does not prevent the CMA from taking such other steps as it considers
appropriate for the purpose of securing that the infringement is not
committed, continued or repeated.

154.4

A direction under  subsection (2) (c)  may be made—

154.4.a

only in respect of an infringement that is a relevant infringement for the
purposes of  Chapter 4  (in addition to being a relevant infringement for the
purposes of this Chapter), and

154.4.b

only if the CMA is conducting, or proposes to conduct, an investigation under
section 180  in relation to that infringement.

154.5

A direction under  this section  may be varied or withdrawn.

154.6

The CMA must take such steps as it considers appropriate to bring a direction
(or its variation or withdrawal) to the attention of enforcers likely to be
affected by it.

###### Consultation

155

155.1

Before making an application for an enforcement order or an interim
enforcement order, an enforcer must (subject to subsection (5)) engage in
appropriate consultation with the person in respect of whom the order would be
made (“ the respondent ”).

155.2

Consultation is “ appropriate consultation ” for the purposes of  subsection
(1)  if it is carried out for the purposes of—

155.2.a

achieving the cessation of a relevant infringement (in a case where the
infringement is occurring) and ensuring it does not recur;

155.2.b

ensuring there is no repetition of a relevant infringement in a case where the
infringement has occurred;

155.2.c

ensuring that a relevant infringement does not take place in a case where the
infringement has yet to occur;

155.2.d

ensuring, in the case of consultation carried out by a public designated
enforcer, that the respondent is aware that an application for an enforcement
order may include an application for the respondent to pay a monetary penalty.

155.3

Engagement under  subsection (1)  must be initiated by the giving of a
consultation request to the respondent.

155.4

A consultation request must be given by notice in writing.

155.5

The requirement to consult under  this section  does not apply if—

155.5.a

the CMA considers that an application for the order in question should be made
without delay, or

155.5.b

it is not reasonably practicable for the enforcer to ascertain the identity
and whereabouts of the respondent.

155.6

The requirement to consult under  this section  ceases to apply—

155.6.a

in the case of an application for an enforcement order, at the end of the
applicable period;

155.6.b

in the case of an application for an interim enforcement order, at the end of
the period of 7 days beginning with the day after the respondent receives a
consultation request.

155.7

In  subsection (6) (a)  the “ applicable period ” means—

155.7.a

in a case where the respondent is a member of, or is represented by, an
approved representative body, the period of 28 days beginning with the day
after the respondent receives a consultation request;

155.7.b

in any other case, the period of 14 days beginning with the day after the
respondent receives a consultation request.

155.8

In  subsection (7) (a)  “ approved representative body ” means a
representative body that operates a consumer code which has been approved by—

155.8.a

a public designated enforcer,

155.8.b

a body which represents a public designated enforcer,

155.8.c

a group of public designated enforcers, or

155.8.d

a community interest company whose objects include the approval of consumer
codes.

155.9

In  subsection (8) —

      “ consumer code ” means an agreement or set of rules regulating, with a
view to safeguarding or promoting the interests of consumers, the behaviour of
traders who—         are engaged in commercial practices, and           choose
to be bound by the agreement or set of rules;                 “ representative
body ” means an organisation established to represent the interests of two or
more businesses in a particular sector or area.

##### Powers of court on application under 

###### Enforcement orders and undertakings

156

156.1

This section  applies if, on an application under  section 153  for an
enforcement order, the court finds that the person in respect of whom the
application is made (“ the respondent ”)—

156.1.a

has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial practice which
constitutes a relevant infringement (“the infringing practice”), or

156.1.b

is an accessory to the infringing practice.

156.2

The court may—

156.2.a

make an enforcement order against the respondent, or

156.2.b

accept an undertaking from the respondent given under  subsection (5) .

156.3

In considering whether to make an enforcement order the court must have regard
to whether the respondent—

156.3.a

has given an undertaking under  section 163  or  185  in respect of the
infringing practice, and

156.3.b

if so, whether the respondent has failed to comply with the undertaking.

156.4

An enforcement order is an order that—

156.4.a

indicates the nature of the infringing practice, and

156.4.b

directs the respondent to comply with  subsection (6) .

156.5

The respondent gives an undertaking under  this subsection  by undertaking—

156.5.a

to comply with  subsection (6) , or

156.5.b

to take steps which the court believes will secure that the respondent
complies with  subsection (6) .

156.6

The respondent complies with  this subsection  by—

156.6.a

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (a) , not continuing or
repeating the infringing practice (where it is alleged that the person has
engaged or is engaging in that practice);

156.6.b

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (b) , not consenting to or
conniving in the infringing practice;

156.6.c

in either case, not engaging in the infringing practice in the course of the
respondent’s business or another business;

156.6.d

in either case, not consenting to or conniving in the carrying out of the
infringing practice by a body corporate with which the respondent has a
special relationship (see section  220 ).

156.7

See also—

156.7.a

section 157  about the inclusion of enhanced consumer measures in an
enforcement order or undertaking;

156.7.b

section 158  about the inclusion of a requirement to pay a monetary penalty in
an enforcement order.

156.8

An enforcement order may require the respondent to publish—

156.8.a

the order;

156.8.b

a corrective statement.

156.9

An undertaking under  subsection (5)  may include a further undertaking by the
respondent to publish—

156.9.a

the terms of the undertaking;

156.9.b

a corrective statement.

156.10

Publication under  subsection (8)  or  (9) —

156.10.a

must be made in such form and manner, and to such extent, as the court
considers appropriate for the purpose of eliminating any continuing effects of
the conduct in respect of which the order was made or undertaking given;

156.10.b

is not an enhanced consumer measure for the purposes of  this Chapter .

156.11

Where the court has accepted from the respondent an undertaking under
subsection  (5) —

156.11.a

the court may accept from the respondent any variation of the undertaking that
the court considers appropriate for meeting the purposes for which the
undertaking was given;

156.11.b

the court may release the respondent from the undertaking (whether on its own
initiative or at the respondent’s request) if the court considers that the
undertaking is no longer necessary to further those purposes.

###### Enforcement orders and undertakings: enhanced consumer measures

157

157.1

An enforcement order or undertaking may include a requirement to take such
enhanced consumer measures as the court considers just and reasonable.

157.2

For this purpose, the court must in particular consider whether any proposed
enhanced consumer measures are proportionate having regard to—

157.2.a

the likely benefit of the measures to consumers,

157.2.b

the costs likely to be incurred by the respondent, and

157.2.c

the likely cost to consumers of obtaining the benefit of the measures.

157.3

The costs referred to in  subsection (2) (b)  are—

157.3.a

the cost of the measures, and

157.3.b

the reasonable administrative costs associated with taking the measures.

157.4

Where the respondent is required under an enforcement order or an undertaking
to take enhanced consumer measures, the order or undertaking may include
requirements for the respondent to provide information or documents to the
court in order that the court may determine whether the respondent is taking
those measures.

157.5

Subsection (6)  applies if—

157.5.a

an enforcement order or undertaking includes enhanced consumer measures
offering compensation, and

157.5.b

a settlement agreement is entered into in connection with the payment of
compensation.

157.6

A waiver of a person’s rights in the settlement agreement is not valid if it
is a waiver of the right to bring civil proceedings in respect of conduct
other than conduct which has given rise to the enforcement order or
undertaking.

157.7

This section  is subject to  section 177  (private designated enforcers).

157.8

In  this section  “ undertaking ” means an undertaking given under section
156 (5) .

157.9

References in  this Part  to “enhanced consumer measures” are to be read in
accordance with  section 221 .

###### Enforcement orders: requirement to pay monetary penalty

158

158.1

This section  applies where the court makes an enforcement order against the
respondent on an application made by a public designated enforcer.

158.2

The order may, subject to  subsection (3) , include a requirement for the
respondent to pay a monetary penalty.

158.3

In the case of a respondent within  section 156 (1) (a) , a requirement to pay
a monetary penalty may be imposed only if the court finds that the respondent
has engaged, or is engaging, in a commercial practice constituting a relevant
infringement (and not in respect of a practice that the court finds that the
person is likely to engage in).

158.4

Where the order includes a requirement under  subsection (2) , the order, or a
notice accompanying service of the order, must set out the monetary penalty
information (see  section 203 ).

158.5

The amount of a monetary penalty must be a fixed amount not exceeding £300,000
or, if higher, 10% of the total value of the turnover (if any) of the
respondent.

158.6

A monetary penalty may not be imposed on the respondent by virtue of  this
section  in respect of any conduct that constitutes an offence if the
respondent has been found guilty of that offence.

158.7

The respondent does not commit an offence in relation to any conduct in
respect of which a monetary penalty is imposed on the respondent by virtue of
this section.

158.8

In addition to any right of appeal on a point of law, a person liable to pay a
monetary penalty by virtue of  this section  may appeal in respect of—

158.8.a

the decision to impose the penalty, or

158.8.b

the nature or amount of the penalty.

158.9

In the application of  subsection (4)  to Scotland, “ service of the order ”
includes service of an extract order in execution of or diligence on the
order.

###### Interim enforcement orders and undertakings

159

159.1

This section  applies if—

159.1.a

it is alleged in an application under  section 153  for an interim enforcement
order that a person (“ the respondent ”)—

159.1.a.i

has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial practice which
constitutes a relevant infringement (“the infringing practice”), or

159.1.a.ii

is an accessory to the infringing practice,

159.1.b

it appears to the court that if the application had been an application for an
enforcement order it would be likely to be granted, and

159.1.c

the court considers it is expedient that the infringing practice is prohibited
or prevented immediately.

159.2

The court may—

159.2.a

make an interim enforcement order against the respondent, or

159.2.b

accept an undertaking from the respondent to comply with  subsection (5)  or
to take steps which the court believes will secure such compliance.

159.3

If no notice of the application has been given to the respondent, the court
may proceed under  subsection (2) (a)  only if it considers it appropriate to
make an interim enforcement order without notice.

159.4

An interim enforcement order is an order that—

159.4.a

indicates the nature of the infringing practice, and

159.4.b

directs the respondent to comply with  subsection (5) .

159.5

The respondent complies with  this subsection  by—

159.5.a

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (a) (i) , not continuing or
repeating the infringing practice (where it is alleged that the person has
engaged or is engaging in that practice);

159.5.b

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (a) (ii) , not consenting
to or conniving in the infringing practice;

159.5.c

in either case, not engaging in the infringing practice in the course of the
respondent’s business or another business;

159.5.d

in either case, not consenting to or conniving in the carrying out of the
infringing practice by a body corporate with which the respondent has a
special relationship (see section  220 ).

159.6

An application for an interim enforcement order in respect of alleged conduct
of the respondent may not be made at any time after—

159.6.a

an application for an enforcement order against the respondent in respect of
that conduct is determined, or

159.6.b

a final infringement notice in respect of that conduct has been given to the
respondent (see  section 182 ).

159.7

An application for an interim enforcement order must—

159.7.a

include all information known to the applicant that is material to the
question of whether or not the application is granted;

159.7.b

if made without notice, state why no notice has been given.

159.8

The court may vary or discharge an interim enforcement order on the
application of the applicant or the respondent.

159.9

An interim enforcement order made in respect of conduct of the respondent is
discharged—

159.9.a

on the determination of an application for an enforcement order made against
the respondent in respect of that conduct, or

159.9.b

on the giving of a final infringement notice to the respondent in respect of
that conduct.

##### Online interface orders and interim online interface orders

###### Applications

160

160.1

A public designated enforcer may apply to the appropriate court for an online
interface order, or an interim online interface order, if the enforcer
considers that a person has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a
commercial practice that constitutes a relevant infringement.

160.2

An application for an online interface order, or an interim online interface
order, may be made in respect of—

160.2.a

the person that the enforcer considers has engaged, is engaging or is likely
to engage in a commercial practice that constitutes a relevant infringement,
or

160.2.b

any other person (subject to  subsection (3) ).

160.3

An application under  subsection (2) (b)  in respect of a person who is
outside the United Kingdom may be made only if the person—

160.3.a

is a United Kingdom national,

160.3.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

160.3.c

is a firm established in the United Kingdom, or

160.3.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom or by any means directs activities
in the course of carrying on a business to consumers in the United Kingdom.

160.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (c) , a firm is “established in the United
Kingdom” if—

160.4.a

it is incorporated or formed under the law of a part of the United Kingdom, or

160.4.b

it is administered under arrangements governed by the law of a part of the
United Kingdom.

160.5

Section  154  (CMA directions to other enforcers) applies where it appears to
the CMA that another public designated enforcer intends to make an application
for an online interface order, or an interim online interface order, as it
applies in relation to intended applications for enforcement orders and
interim enforcement orders, but for this purpose the reference to such other
enforcer in subsection  (2) (b)  is to be taken as a reference only to such
other public designated enforcer.

160.6

Nothing in  this section  or in  section 161  or  162  limits other powers
under  this Chapter  to make enforcement orders or interim enforcement orders
or to accept undertakings.

###### Online interface orders

161

161.1

The court may make an online interface order on an application under  section
160  if the court finds that—

161.1.a

a person has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial
practice that constitutes a relevant infringement,

161.1.b

there are no other available means under this Chapter of bringing about the
cessation or prohibition of the infringement which, by themselves, would be
wholly effective, and

161.1.c

it is necessary to make the order to avoid the risk of serious harm to the
collective interests of consumers.

161.2

An online interface order is an order that directs the person against whom it
is made to do, or to co-operate with another person so that person can do, one
or more of the following—

161.2.a

remove content from, or modify content on, an online interface;

161.2.b

disable or restrict access to an online interface;

161.2.c

display a warning to consumers accessing an online interface;

161.2.d

delete a fully qualified domain name and take any steps necessary to
facilitate the registration of that domain name by the public designated
enforcer that applied for the order.

161.3

Where an online interface order is made, the public designated enforcer that
applied for the order may publish—

161.3.a

the order, and

161.3.b

where known, the identity of the person who has engaged, is engaging or is
likely to engage in a commercial practice which constitutes the relevant
infringement.

161.4

Publication under  subsection (3)  is to be made in such form and manner as
the enforcer considers appropriate for the purpose of eliminating any
continuing effects of the relevant infringement.

161.5

In  subsection (2)  “ online interface ” means any software, including a
website, part of a website, an application or other digital content which—

161.5.a

is operated by a person (“ P ”) acting for purposes relating to P’s business
or by a person acting in the name of, or on behalf of, P, and

161.5.b

is operated for or in connection with the purposes of giving access to, or
promoting, goods, services or digital content that P or another person
supplies.

###### Interim online interface orders

162

162.1

The court may make an interim online interface order against a person (“ the
respondent ”) on an application under  section 160  if—

162.1.a

it is alleged that there has been or is likely to be a relevant infringement,

162.1.b

it appears to the court that if the application had been an application for an
online interface order it would be likely to be granted, and

162.1.c

the court considers it expedient to bring about the cessation or prohibition
of the infringement immediately.

162.2

If no notice of the application has been given to the respondent—

162.2.a

the application must state why no notice has been given, and

162.2.b

the court may make the order only if it considers it appropriate for the order
to be made without notice.

162.3

An interim online interface order is an order that directs the respondent to
do, or to co-operate with another person so that person can do, one or more of
the following—

162.3.a

remove content from, or modify content on, an online interface;

162.3.b

disable or restrict access to an online interface;

162.3.c

display a warning to consumers accessing an online interface;

162.3.d

delete a fully qualified domain name and take any steps necessary to
facilitate the registration of that domain name by the public designated
enforcer that applied for the order.

In  this subsection  “ online interface ” has the meaning given by  section
161 (5) .

162.4

An application for an interim online interface order against the respondent
may not be made at any time after—

162.4.a

an application for an online interface order against the respondent in respect
of the same relevant infringement is determined, or

162.4.b

an online interface notice in respect of the same relevant infringement has
been given to the respondent (see  section 184 ).

162.5

An application for an interim online interface order must include all
information known to the public designated enforcer making the application
that is material to the question of whether or not the application is granted.

162.6

The court may vary or discharge an interim online interface order on the
application of the enforcer that applied for the order or the respondent.

162.7

An interim online interface order against the respondent is discharged on the
determination of—

162.7.a

an application for an online interface order made against the respondent in
respect of the same relevant infringement, or

162.7.b

an online interface notice in respect of the same relevant infringement has
been given to the respondent.

##### Undertakings and further proceedings

###### Acceptance of undertakings by enforcers

163

163.1

This section  applies where an enforcer could make an application under
section 153  for an enforcement order, or an interim enforcement order,
against a person (“ the respondent ”) whom the enforcer believes—

163.1.a

has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial practice which
constitutes a relevant infringement (“the infringing practice”), or

163.1.b

is an accessory to the infringing practice.

163.2

The enforcer may accept an undertaking from the respondent to do one or more
of the following—

163.2.a

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (a) , not to continue or
repeat the infringing practice (where it is alleged that the respondent has
engaged or is engaging in that practice);

163.2.b

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (b) , not to consent to or
connive in the infringing practice;

163.2.c

in either case, not to engage in the infringing practice in the course of the
respondent’s business or another business;

163.2.d

in either case, not to consent to or connive in the carrying out of the
infringing practice by a body corporate with which the respondent has a
special relationship (see section  220 ).

163.3

See also  section 164  about the inclusion of enhanced consumer measures in an
undertaking under  this section .

163.4

Where the enforcer accepts an undertaking under  subsection (2)  the enforcer
may publish the undertaking or accept a further undertaking from the
respondent to do so.

163.5

Publication under  subsection (4) —

163.5.a

must be made in such form and manner, and to such an extent, as the enforcer
considers appropriate for the purpose of eliminating any continuing effects of
the infringing practice;

163.5.b

is not an enhanced consumer measure for the purposes of  this Chapter .

163.6

Where an enforcer has accepted from the respondent an undertaking under this
section—

163.6.a

the enforcer may accept from the respondent any such variation of the
undertaking that the enforcer considers appropriate for meeting the purposes
for which the undertaking was given;

163.6.b

the enforcer may release the respondent from the undertaking (whether on its
own initiative or at the respondent’s request) if the enforcer considers that
the undertaking is no longer necessary to meet those purposes.

163.7

Each enforcer must keep a record of—

163.7.a

undertakings it has accepted under this section, and

163.7.b

reviews it has carried out into the effectiveness of such undertakings.

163.8

In determining for the purposes of subsection  (1)  whether an enforcer could
make an application under  section 153 , section  169  is to be ignored.

###### Undertakings under 

164

164.1

An undertaking under  section 163 (2)  may include a requirement to take such
enhanced consumer measures as the enforcer accepting the undertaking considers
just and reasonable.

164.2

For this purpose, the enforcer must in particular consider whether any
proposed enhanced consumer measures are proportionate having regard to—

164.2.a

the likely benefit of the measures to consumers,

164.2.b

the costs likely to be incurred by the respondent, and

164.2.c

the likely cost to consumers of obtaining the benefit of the measures.

164.3

The costs referred to in  subsection (2) (b)  are—

164.3.a

the cost of the measures, and

164.3.b

the reasonable administrative costs associated with taking the measures.

164.4

Where the respondent is required by an undertaking to take enhanced consumer
measures, the undertaking may include requirements for the respondent to
provide information or documents to the enforcer accepting the undertaking in
order that the enforcer may determine if the respondent is taking those
measures.

164.5

Subsection (6)  applies if—

164.5.a

an undertaking under  section 163 (2)  includes enhanced consumer measures
offering compensation, and

164.5.b

a settlement agreement is entered into in connection with the payment of
compensation.

164.6

A waiver of a person’s rights in the settlement agreement is not valid if it
is a waiver of the right to bring civil proceedings in respect of conduct
other than conduct which has given rise to the undertaking.

164.7

This section  is subject to  section 177  (private designated enforcers).

###### Undertakings under section 

165

165.1

This section  applies where an enforcer proposes to—

165.1.a

accept a material variation of an undertaking under  section 163 , or

165.1.b

release the respondent from any such undertaking,

and the proposed variation or release has not been requested by the
respondent.

165.2

Before taking the proposed action mentioned in  subsection (1)  the enforcer
must—

165.2.a

give notice to the respondent under  subsection (3) , and

165.2.b

consider any representations made in accordance with the notice.

165.3

A notice under  this subsection  must state—

165.3.a

the fact that the enforcer is proposing to act as mentioned in  subsection (1)
,

165.3.b

the reasons for doing so, and

165.3.c

the means by which, and the time by which, representations may be made in
relation to the proposed action.

165.4

If after considering any representations made in accordance with a notice
under  subsection (3)  an enforcer decides to take an action mentioned in
subsection (1) , the enforcer must give notice to the respondent of that
decision.

165.5

The reference in  subsection (1) (a)  to a material variation is a reference
to any variation that the enforcer considers to be material in any respect.

###### Consumer protection orders or undertakings to court: further proceedings

166

166.1

This section  applies if the court—

166.1.a

makes a consumer protection order against a person (“ the respondent ”) on an
application made by an enforcer (“ the original application ”), or

166.1.b

accepts an undertaking from the respondent under  section 156  or  159  on the
making of the original application.

166.2

References in this Part to a “consumer protection order” are references to—

166.2.a

an enforcement order,

166.2.b

an interim enforcement order,

166.2.c

an online interface order, or

166.2.d

an interim online interface order.

166.3

An application may (subject to  subsection (7) ) be made to the same court to
which the original application was made in respect of a failure to comply with
the order or undertaking in question—

166.3.a

by the enforcer that made the original application, or

166.3.b

by any other enforcer other than a private designated enforcer.

166.4

An application to the court in respect of a failure to comply with an
undertaking may include an application for a consumer protection order of any
kind that the enforcer concerned is authorised under this Chapter to apply
for.

166.5

If on an application under  this section  the court finds that an undertaking
is not being complied with, the court may do either or both of the following—

166.5.a

make a consumer protection order (instead of making any other order it has
power to make);

166.5.b

make an order requiring the respondent to pay a monetary penalty.

166.6

Where an application is made under  subsection (4)  for a consumer protection
order—

166.6.a

sections  154  and  160 (5)  (directions by CMA) and section  155
(consultation) do not apply;

166.6.b

the application may be made only in respect of a commercial practice that the
enforcer considers a person has engaged or is engaging in (and not in respect
of a practice that a person is likely to engage in);

166.6.c

a power of the court to accept an undertaking instead of making a consumer
protection order does not apply,

and the preceding provisions of  this Chapter  apply subject to  this
subsection .

166.7

An application may not be made under  subsection (3)  in the case of a failure
to comply with an order or undertaking which consists only of a failure to
provide information or documents required by the order or undertaking under
section 157 (4) .

166.8

In addition to any right of appeal on a point of law, a person liable to pay a
penalty by virtue of an order under subsection  (5) (b)  may appeal in respect
of—

166.8.a

the decision to impose the penalty, or

166.8.b

the nature or amount of the penalty.

166.9

In connection with orders under  subsection (5) (b) , see further—

166.9.a

section 168 , which provides for the amount of penalties, and

166.9.b

section 203 , which provides for information to accompany such orders.

###### Undertakings to public designated enforcers: further proceedings

167

167.1

This section  applies where a public designated enforcer accepts an
undertaking from a person (“ the respondent ”) under  section 163 .

167.2

The enforcer may apply to the court in respect of a failure to comply with the
undertaking.

167.3

An application under  subsection (2)  may include an application for a
consumer protection order of any kind that the enforcer concerned is
authorised under this Chapter to apply for.

167.4

If the court finds that the undertaking is not being complied with, the court
may do either or both of the following—

167.4.a

make a consumer protection order (instead of making any other order it has
power to make);

167.4.b

make an order requiring the respondent to pay a monetary penalty.

167.5

A requirement under  subsection (4) (b)  to pay a monetary penalty may be
imposed only if the court is satisfied that the respondent’s failure in
question is without reasonable excuse.

167.6

Where an application is made under  subsection (2)  for a consumer protection
order—

167.6.a

sections  154  and  160 (5)  (directions by CMA) and section  155
(consultation) do not apply;

167.6.b

the application may be made only in respect of a commercial practice that the
enforcer considers a person has engaged or is engaging in (and not in respect
of a practice that a person is likely to engage in);

167.6.c

a power of the court to accept an undertaking instead of making a consumer
protection order does not apply,

and the preceding provisions of  this Chapter  apply subject to  this
subsection .

167.7

An application may not be made under  subsection (2)  in the case of a failure
to comply with an undertaking which consists only of a failure to provide
information or documents under  section 164 (4) .

167.8

In addition to any right of appeal on a point of law, a person liable to pay a
penalty by virtue of an order under subsection (4)(b) may appeal in respect
of—

167.8.a

the decision to impose the penalty, or

167.8.b

the nature or amount of the penalty.

167.9

In connection with orders under  subsection (4) (b) , see further—

167.9.a

section 168 , which provides for the amount of penalties, and

167.9.b

section 203 , which provides for information to accompany such orders.

###### Monetary penalties under 

168

168.1

This section  applies in relation to a monetary penalty imposed on a person (“
the respondent ”) by an order made under  section 166  or  167 .

168.2

The amount of the penalty must be—

168.2.a

a fixed amount,

168.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

168.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

168.3

The penalty must not exceed—

168.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, £150,000 or, if higher, 5% of the total value
of the turnover (if any) of the respondent;

168.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
£15,000 or, if higher, 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (if any) of
the respondent;

168.3.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, such fixed amount and such amount per day.

168.4

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

168.4.a

no account is to be taken of any days before notice of the application under
section 166 (3)  or  167 (2)  was given to the respondent, and

168.4.b

unless the court determines an earlier date, the amount payable ceases to
accumulate on the day on which the requirements of the undertaking that the
respondent has failed to comply with are complied with.

##### Notification of CMA

###### Notification requirements: applications

169

169.1

This section  applies to an enforcer that is not the CMA.

169.2

Before making an application for a consumer protection order the enforcer—

169.2.a

must by notice inform the CMA of its intention to do so, and

169.2.b

may only proceed to make the application after expiry of the minimum period
or, if sooner, after the CMA has by notice informed the enforcer that it
consents to the making of the application.

169.3

The “minimum period” is—

169.3.a

in the case of an enforcement order or an online interface order, 14 days
beginning with the day on which the notice under  subsection (2) (a)  is
given;

169.3.b

in the case of an interim enforcement order or an interim online interface
order, 7 days beginning with the day on which the notice under  subsection (2)
(a)  is given.

169.4

Where an enforcer proceeds to make an application for a consumer protection
order, the enforcer must by notice inform the CMA of the result of the
application.

169.5

Subsection (6)  applies where the enforcer makes an application under  section
166  in respect of a failure to comply with—

169.5.a

a consumer protection order, or

169.5.b

an undertaking given under  section 156  or  159 .

169.6

The enforcer must by notice inform the CMA of the making of the application
and of any order made by the court on the application.

###### Notification requirements: undertakings

170

170.1

This section  applies to an enforcer that is not the CMA which accepts an
undertaking under  section 163 .

170.2

The enforcer must by notice inform the CMA of—

170.2.a

the terms of the undertaking, and

170.2.b

the identity of the person who gave it.

###### Notification requirements: proceedings

171

171.1

This section  applies where a local weights and measures authority in England
and Wales intends to start proceedings for an offence under an enactment
listed in Part 1 of  Schedule 15 .

171.2

Before starting the proceedings the authority—

171.2.a

must by notice inform the CMA of its intention to do so, and

171.2.b

may only start the proceedings on or after the relevant day.

171.3

The “relevant day” is—

171.3.a

the day on which the CMA notifies the authority that the CMA has received the
authority’s notice given under  subsection (2) (a) , or

171.3.b

if sooner, the day beginning 14 days after the day on which that notice was
given.

171.4

Where the authority starts the proceedings, the authority must by notice
inform the CMA of outcome of the proceedings.

171.5

A failure of an authority to comply with a requirement under this section does
not invalidate any proceedings started by the authority.

###### Notification requirements: convictions and judgments

172

172.1

This section  applies where—

172.1.a

a person is convicted of an offence by or before a court in the United
Kingdom, or

172.1.b

a judgment is given against a person by a court in civil proceedings in the
United Kingdom.

172.2

The court may make arrangements to bring the conviction or judgment to the
attention of the CMA if it appears to the court—

172.2.a

having regard to the functions of the CMA under this Chapter or Chapter 4,
that it is expedient for the conviction or judgment to be brought to the
attention of the CMA, and

172.2.b

without such arrangements the conviction or judgment may not be brought to the
attention of the CMA.

172.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2)  it is immaterial whether the proceedings
have been finally disposed of by the court.

172.4

Judgment includes an order or decree (and references to the giving of a
judgment are to be construed accordingly).

##### Jurisdiction etc

###### Appropriate court

173

173.1

This section applies for the purposes of determining the appropriate court in
relation to an application for, or the making of, a consumer protection order
against a person (“ the respondent ”) in connection with a relevant
infringement.

173.2

If the respondent has a place of business in, or carries on business in, a
part of the United Kingdom, the appropriate court is—

173.2.a

the High Court or the county court in England and Wales, if the respondent
carries on business in England and Wales or has a place of business in England
and Wales;

173.2.b

the High Court or a county court in Northern Ireland, if the respondent
carries on business in Northern Ireland or has a place of business in Northern
Ireland;

173.2.c

the Court of Session or the sheriff, if the respondent carries on business in
Scotland or has a place of business in Scotland.

173.3

If the respondent does not have a place of business in, and does not carry on
business in, any part of the United Kingdom, the appropriate court is—

173.3.a

the High Court or the county court in England and Wales, if a relevant
consumer is domiciled in England or Wales;

173.3.b

the High Court or a county court in Northern Ireland, if a relevant consumer
is domiciled in Northern Ireland;

173.3.c

the Court of Session or the sheriff, if a relevant consumer is domiciled in
Scotland.

173.4

References in subsection (3) to a “relevant consumer” are to any consumer—

173.4.a

to or for whom goods, services or digital content are supplied in connection
with which the relevant infringement has, or is alleged to have, taken place,

173.4.b

to whom activities are directed the carrying out of which constitutes, or is
alleged to constitute, the relevant infringement, or

173.4.c

from whom goods are received in connection with which the relevant
infringement has, or is alleged to have, taken place.

173.5

Section 41 of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 applies for the
purposes of determining the part of the United Kingdom in which a relevant
consumer is domiciled.

###### Effect of orders in other parts of the United Kingdom

174

A consumer protection order made in a part of the United Kingdom by a court
specified in relation to that part in the second or third column of the Table
has effect in another part of the United Kingdom as if made by a court
specified in relation to that other part in the same column of the Table—

    England and Wales The High Court The county court Scotland The Court of
Session The sheriff Northern Ireland The High Court A county court.

###### Evidence

175

175.1

Proceedings under  this Chapter  are civil proceedings for the purposes of—

175.1.a

section 11 of the Civil Evidence Act 1968 (convictions admissible as evidence
in civil proceedings);

175.1.b

section 10 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1968
(corresponding provision in Scotland);

175.1.c

section 7 of the Civil Evidence Act (Northern Ireland)  1971 (c.36 (N.I.))
(corresponding provision in Northern Ireland).

175.2

In proceedings under  this Chapter  any finding by a court in civil
proceedings that a person has engaged in infringing conduct—

175.2.a

is admissible as evidence that the conduct has occurred;

175.2.b

unless the contrary is proved, is sufficient evidence that the conduct has
occurred.

175.3

But  subsection (2)  does not apply to any finding—

175.3.a

which has been reversed on appeal;

175.3.b

which has been varied on appeal so as to negate it.

175.4

For the purposes of subsection (2), a person engages in “infringing conduct”
if—

175.4.a

the person has engaged in a commercial practice that constitutes a relevant
infringement, or

175.4.b

the person is an accessory to such a practice.

##### Miscellaneous

###### Interconnected bodies corporate

176

176.1

This section  applies if—

176.1.a

a court makes a consumer protection order against a body corporate (“ the
respondent ”), and

176.1.b

the interconnection condition applies in relation to the respondent.

176.2

The interconnection condition applies in relation to the respondent if—

176.2.a

at the time the order is made the respondent is a member of a group of
interconnected bodies corporate,

176.2.b

at any time when the order is in force the respondent becomes a member of a
group of interconnected bodies corporate, or

176.2.c

at any time when the order is in force a group of interconnected bodies
corporate of which the respondent is a member is increased by the addition of
one or more further members.

176.3

The order may include provision for the requirements (or any particular
requirements) imposed by the order to be binding upon all other members of the
group (in addition to the respondent) as if each of them were the respondent.

176.4

Provision may be included in an order under  subsection (3)  only if the court
considers it just, reasonable and proportionate to include that provision.

176.5

A group of interconnected bodies corporate is a group consisting of two or
more bodies corporate all of whom are interconnected with each other.

176.6

Any two bodies corporate are interconnected—

176.6.a

if one of them is a subsidiary of the other, or

176.6.b

if both of them are subsidiaries of the same body corporate.

176.7

Where an order includes provision under  subsection (3) , a copy of the order
must be given to any other member of the respondent’s group in relation to
which the requirements imposed by the order are to be binding.

###### Enhanced consumer measures: private designated enforcers

177

177.1

This section  applies where—

177.1.a

an enforcement order is made on the application of a private designated
enforcer,

177.1.b

an undertaking is given under  section 156  on an application for an
enforcement order made by a private designated enforcer, or

177.1.c

an undertaking is given under  section 163  to a private designated enforcer.

177.2

The enforcement order or undertaking may include a requirement for the taking
of any enhanced consumer measures only if both of the following conditions are
met.

177.3

The first condition is that the private designated enforcer is specified for
the purposes of  this section  in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

177.4

The second condition is that the enhanced consumer measures do not directly
benefit the private designated enforcer or an associated undertaking.

177.5

Enhanced consumer measures directly benefiting an enforcer or an associated
undertaking include (for example) measures which—

177.5.a

require a person to pay money to the enforcer or an associated undertaking;

177.5.b

require a person to participate in a scheme, administered by the enforcer or
associated undertaking, that is designed to recommend persons supplying goods,
services or digital content to consumers;

177.5.c

would give the enforcer or associated undertaking a commercial advantage over
any of its competitors.

177.6

An enforcer may be specified in regulations under  subsection (3)  only if—

177.6.a

the functions of the enforcer under  this Chapter  have been specified under
section 24 of the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 2006 (functions to
which principles under section 21 and code of practice under section 22
apply), so far as capable of being so specified, and

177.6.b

the Secretary of State is satisfied that to do so is likely to—

177.6.b.i

improve the availability to consumers of redress for relevant infringements,

177.6.b.ii

improve the availability to consumers of information which enables them to
choose more effectively between persons supplying goods, services or digital
content, or

177.6.b.iii

improve compliance with consumer law.

177.7

Subsection (8)  applies if—

177.7.a

an enforcer exercises a function in relation to a person by virtue of  this
section ,

177.7.b

the function is a relevant function for the purposes of Part 2 of the
Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (co-ordination of regulatory
enforcement), and

177.7.c

a primary authority (within the meaning of that Part) has given advice or
guidance under section 24A(1) or (2) of that Act—

177.7.c.i

to that person in relation to the function, or

177.7.c.ii

to other local authorities (within the meaning of that Part) with that
function as to how they should exercise it in relation to that person.

177.8

The enforcer must have regard to the advice or guidance in exercising the
function in relation to that person.

177.9

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

177.10

In  this section  “ associated undertaking ”, in relation to a private
designated enforcer, means—

177.10.a

a parent undertaking or subsidiary undertaking of the enforcer, or

177.10.b

a subsidiary undertaking of a parent undertaking of the enforcer,

and for this purpose “parent undertaking” and “subsidiary undertaking” have
the meanings given by section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006.

###### Substantiation of claims

178

178.1

This section  applies where an application for a consumer protection order is
made to a court in respect of a relevant infringement involving a
contravention of  Chapter 1  of  Part 4  (protection from unfair trading).

178.2

The court may, for the purpose of considering the application, require a
respondent to provide evidence as to the accuracy of any factual claim made as
part of a commercial practice of the respondent.

178.3

The court may find that a factual claim of a respondent is inaccurate if—

178.3.a

the respondent fails to provide evidence of the accuracy of the claim in
response to a requirement imposed under  subsection (2) , or

178.3.b

the court considers that any such evidence that is provided is inadequate.

178.4

In  this section  “ respondent ”, in relation to an application for a consumer
protection order, means—

178.4.a

where the application is for an enforcement order or an interim enforcement
order, the person against whom the order is sought;

178.4.b

where the application is for an online interface order or an interim online
interface order, the person against whom the order is sought or another person
who is a party to the proceedings.

###### Crown application

179

179.1

Subject to  subsection (2) , this Chapter binds the Crown.

179.2

The Crown is not liable for any monetary penalty imposed by virtue of this
Chapter.

#### Direct enforcement powers of CMA

##### Investigations

###### Power of CMA to investigate suspected infringements

180

180.1

This section  applies where the CMA has reasonable grounds for suspecting
that—

180.1.a

a person has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial
practice that constitutes a relevant infringement, or

180.1.b

a person is an accessory to such a practice.

180.2

The CMA may conduct an investigation into the matter.

180.3

Where the CMA conducts an investigation, it may publish a notice which (among
other things) may—

180.3.a

state its decision to conduct the investigation,

180.3.b

summarise the matter under investigation (including the industry sectors
affected),

180.3.c

identify, so far as possible, the persons under investigation (including
whether they are suspected of falling within  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) ),
and

180.3.d

indicate the timetable for the conduct of the investigation.

180.4

If after giving a notice under  subsection (3)  the CMA decides to close an
investigation, the CMA must publish a notice confirming that the investigation
is to be closed.

##### Infringement notices and penalties

###### Provisional infringement notice

181

181.1

This section  applies where—

181.1.a

the CMA has started an investigation under  section 180  that is continuing,
and

181.1.b

the condition in  subsection (2)  is met in respect of any person (“ the
respondent ”) who is subject to the investigation.

181.2

The condition in  this subsection  is met in respect of the respondent if the
CMA has reasonable grounds to believe that—

181.2.a

the respondent has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial
practice constituting a relevant infringement (“the infringing practice”), or

181.2.b

the respondent is an accessory to such a practice.

181.3

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (a
“provisional infringement notice”).

181.4

A provisional infringement notice must—

181.4.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s acts or
omissions giving rise to the CMA’s belief that the condition in  subsection
(2)  is met;

181.4.b

set out proposed directions for the purposes of securing that the respondent
complies with  subsection (5) ;

181.4.c

invite the respondent to make representations to the CMA about the giving of
the notice;

181.4.d

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

181.5

The respondent complies with  this subsection  by—

181.5.a

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (2) (a) , not continuing or
repeating the infringing practice (where it is believed that the respondent
has engaged or is engaging in that practice);

181.5.b

in the case of a respondent within  subsection (2) (b) , not consenting to or
conniving in the infringing practice;

181.5.c

in either case, not engaging in the infringing practice in the course of the
respondent’s business or another business;

181.5.d

in either case, not consenting to or conniving in the carrying out of the
infringing practice by a body corporate with which the respondent has a
special relationship (see section  220 ).

181.6

If the proposed directions mentioned in  subsection (4) (b)  include the
taking by the respondent of enhanced consumer measures, the notice must state
that fact and include details of the proposed measures to be taken (but
section 183  applies in respect of any such proposed measures specified in a
provisional infringement notice as that section applies to such measures
specified in a final infringement notice).

181.7

The means specified under  subsection (4) (d)  for making representations must
include arrangements for them to be made orally if the respondent chooses to
make representations in that way.

181.8

If the CMA is considering the imposition of a monetary penalty on the
respondent (see  section 182 (4) (b) ), the provisional infringement notice
must also state—

181.8.a

that the CMA is considering imposing a monetary penalty;

181.8.b

the proposed amount of the penalty;

181.8.c

any further factors (in addition to those provided under  subsection (4) (a) )
which the CMA considers may justify the imposition of the proposed penalty and
its amount.

###### Final infringement notice

182

182.1

This section  applies where—

182.1.a

the CMA has given to the respondent a provisional infringement notice under
section 181 ,

182.1.b

the time for the respondent to make representations to the CMA in accordance
with that notice has expired, and

182.1.c

after considering such representations (if any), the CMA is satisfied that—

182.1.c.i

the respondent has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial
practice constituting a relevant infringement, or

182.1.c.ii

the respondent is an accessory to such a practice.

182.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (a “final
infringement notice”).

182.3

In deciding whether to give a final infringement notice the CMA must, in
particular, have regard to whether the respondent has previously given an
undertaking under  this Chapter  or  Chapter 3  in respect of the acts or
omissions in relation to which the final infringement notice would be given.

182.4

A final infringement notice may impose on the respondent a requirement to do
either or both of the following—

182.4.a

a requirement to comply with such directions as the CMA considers appropriate
for or in connection with the purpose of securing that the respondent complies
with  section 181 (5)  (which may include directions to take enhanced consumer
measures in accordance with  section 183 );

182.4.b

subject to  subsection (5) , a requirement to pay a monetary penalty.

182.5

In the case of a respondent within  subsection (1) (c) (i) , a requirement to
pay a monetary penalty may be imposed only if the CMA is satisfied that the
respondent has engaged, or is engaging, in a commercial practice constituting
a relevant infringement (and not in respect of a practice that the CMA is
satisfied that the person is likely to engage in).

182.6

The amount of a monetary penalty imposed under  subsection (4) (b)  must be a
fixed amount not exceeding £300,000 or, if higher, 10% of the total value of
the turnover (if any) of the respondent.

182.7

A final infringement notice must—

182.7.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s acts or
omissions on account of which the notice is given;

182.7.b

state any further factors (in addition to those provided under  paragraph (a)
) which the CMA considers justify the giving of the notice;

182.7.c

if a penalty is imposed by the notice under  subsection (4) (b) , contain the
monetary penalty information (see  section 203 );

182.7.d

state that the respondent has a right to appeal against the notice and the
main details of that right (so far as not stated in accordance with  paragraph
(c) ).

182.8

A final infringement notice may require the respondent to publish—

182.8.a

the notice;

182.8.b

a corrective statement.

182.9

Publication under  subsection (8)  must be made in such form and manner, and
to such extent, as the CMA considers appropriate for the purpose of
eliminating any continuing effects of the relevant infringement.

###### Final infringement notice: directions to take enhanced consumer measures

183

183.1

Directions contained in a final infringement notice may include directions
requiring the respondent to take such enhanced consumer measures as the CMA
considers just and reasonable.

183.2

For this purpose, in deciding whether to require the taking of enhanced
consumer measures the CMA must in particular consider whether any proposed
enhanced consumer measures are proportionate having regard to—

183.2.a

the likely benefit of the measures to consumers,

183.2.b

the costs likely to be incurred by the respondent, and

183.2.c

the likely cost to consumers of obtaining the benefit of the measures.

183.3

The costs referred to in  subsection (2) (b)  are—

183.3.a

the cost of the measures, and

183.3.b

the reasonable administrative costs associated with taking the measures.

183.4

Where the respondent is required by a final infringement notice to take
enhanced consumer measures, the notice may include requirements for the
respondent to provide information or documents to the CMA in order that the
CMA may determine if the respondent is taking those measures.

183.5

Subsection (6)  applies if—

183.5.a

a final infringement notice requires the taking of enhanced consumer measures
offering compensation, and

183.5.b

a settlement agreement is entered into in connection with the payment of
compensation.

183.6

A waiver of a person’s rights in the settlement agreement is not valid if it
is a waiver of the right to bring civil proceedings in respect of conduct
other than conduct which has given rise to the final infringement notice.

##### Online interface notices

###### Online interface notices

184

184.1

This section  applies where the CMA is satisfied that a person has engaged, is
engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial practice that constitutes a
relevant infringement.

184.2

The CMA may give a notice under  this section  (an “online interface notice”)
to—

184.2.a

the person that the CMA is satisfied has engaged, is engaging or is likely to
engage in the commercial practice constituting the relevant infringement, or

184.2.b

any other person (subject to  subsection (3) ).

184.3

A notice under  subsection (2) (b)  may be given to a person who is outside
the United Kingdom only if the person—

184.3.a

is a United Kingdom national,

184.3.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

184.3.c

is a firm established in the United Kingdom, or

184.3.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom or by any means directs activities
in the course of carrying on a business to consumers in the United Kingdom.

184.4

An online interface notice may contain whatever directions the CMA considers
appropriate for the purpose of requiring the person to whom it is given to do,
or to co-operate with another person so that person can do, one or more of the
following—

184.4.a

remove content from, or modify content on, an online interface;

184.4.b

disable or restrict access to an online interface;

184.4.c

display a warning to consumers accessing an online interface;

184.4.d

delete a fully qualified domain name and take any steps necessary to
facilitate the registration of that domain name by the CMA.

184.5

An online interface notice may be given to a person only if the CMA is
satisfied that—

184.5.a

there are no other available means under  section 162  or under another
provision of  this Chapter  of bringing about the cessation or prohibition of
the infringement which, by themselves, would be wholly effective, and

184.5.b

it is necessary for the directions contained in the notice to be given to
avoid the risk of serious harm to the collective interests of consumers.

184.6

An online interface notice must—

184.6.a

set out the grounds on which it is given;

184.6.b

state that the respondent has the right to appeal against the notice and the
main details of that right.

184.7

Where an online interface notice is given, the CMA may publish—

184.7.a

the notice, and

184.7.b

where known, the identity of the person who has engaged, is engaging or is
likely to engage in a commercial practice which constitutes the relevant
infringement.

184.8

Publication under  subsection (7)  must be made in such form and manner as the
CMA considers appropriate for the purpose of eliminating any continuing
effects of the relevant infringement.

184.9

For the purposes of subsection  (3) (c) , a firm is “established in the United
Kingdom” if—

184.9.a

it is incorporated or formed under the law of a part of the United Kingdom, or

184.9.b

it is administered under arrangements governed by the law of a part of the
United Kingdom.

184.10

In  subsection (4)  “ online interface ” means any software, including a
website, part of a website, an application or other digital content which—

184.10.a

is operated by a person (“ P ”) acting for purposes relating to P’s business
or by a person acting in the name of, or on behalf of, P, and

184.10.b

is operated for or in connection with the purposes of giving access to, or
promoting, the goods, services or digital content that P or another person
supplies.

##### Undertakings

###### Undertakings

185

185.1

This section  applies where the CMA—

185.1.a

has started an investigation under  section 180  which is continuing, and

185.1.b

has not given a final infringement notice or an online interface notice in
relation to the matter under investigation.

185.2

The CMA may accept an undertaking under  this section  in connection with that
matter from any person whom the CMA believes—

185.2.a

has engaged, is engaging or is likely to engage in a commercial practice that
constitutes a relevant infringement (“the infringing practice”), or

185.2.b

is an accessory to such a practice.

185.3

Subsections  (1)  to  (6)  of  section 164  (inclusion of enhanced consumer
measures in undertakings) apply to an undertaking under this section as they
apply to an undertaking under  section 163 (2) .

185.4

An undertaking under  this section  is an undertaking to do one or more of the
following—

185.4.a

in the case of an undertaking from a person within  subsection (2) (a) , not
to continue or repeat the infringing practice (where the CMA believes the
person has engaged or is engaging in the practice);

185.4.b

in the case of an undertaking from a person within  subsection (2) (b) , not
to consent to or connive in the infringing practice;

185.4.c

in either case, not to engage in the infringing practice in the course of the
person’s business or another business;

185.4.d

in either case, not to consent to, or connive in, the carrying out of the
infringing practice by a body corporate with which the person has a special
relationship (see section  220 ).

185.5

Where the CMA has accepted from a person an undertaking under  this section —

185.5.a

the CMA may accept from the person any such variation of the undertaking that
the CMA considers appropriate for meeting the purposes for which the
undertaking was given;

185.5.b

the CMA may release the person from the undertaking (whether on its own
initiative or at the person’s request) if the CMA considers that the
undertaking is no longer necessary to further those purposes.

185.6

The powers of the CMA under  this section  do not limit other powers of the
CMA to accept, vary or release undertakings under  Chapter 3 .

###### Effect of undertakings under 

186

186.1

This section  applies where the CMA accepts an undertaking from a person under
section 185  in connection with a matter that it was investigating under
section 180 .

186.2

The CMA may not give a final infringement notice or an online interface notice
to the person in relation to the matter.

186.3

Subsection  (2)  does not prevent the CMA from giving a final infringement
notice or an online interface notice to the person—

186.3.a

if and to the extent that the notice relates to anything not addressed by the
acceptance of the undertaking mentioned in  subsection (1) ;

186.3.b

if the CMA considers that there has been a material change of circumstances
since the undertaking was accepted;

186.3.c

if the CMA has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person from whom the
undertaking was accepted has failed to adhere to one or more of the terms of
the undertaking;

186.3.d

if the CMA has reasonable grounds for suspecting that information which led it
to accept the undertaking was incomplete, false or misleading in a material
way.

186.4

If the CMA gives a final infringement notice or an online interface notice by
virtue of  subsection (3) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) , the undertaking is to be
treated as released as from the date on which the notice is given.

###### Undertakings under 

187

187.1

This section  applies where the CMA proposes to—

187.1.a

accept a material variation of an undertaking under  section 185 , or

187.1.b

release a person from any such undertaking,

and the proposed variation or release has not been requested by the person who
gave the undertaking.

187.2

Before taking the proposed action mentioned in  subsection (1)  the CMA must—

187.2.a

give notice to the person under  subsection (3) , and

187.2.b

consider any representations made in accordance with the notice.

187.3

A notice under  this subsection  must state—

187.3.a

the fact that the CMA is proposing to act as mentioned in  subsection (1) ,

187.3.b

the reasons for doing so, and

187.3.c

the means by which, and the time by which, representations may be made in
relation to the proposed action.

187.4

If after considering any representations made in accordance with a notice
under  subsection (3)  the CMA decides to take an action mentioned in
subsection (1) , the CMA must give notice to the person of that decision.

187.5

The reference in  subsection (1) (a)  to a material variation is a reference
to any variation that the CMA considers to be material in any respect.

###### Provisional breach of undertakings enforcement notice

188

188.1

This section  applies where—

188.1.a

the CMA has accepted an undertaking from a person (“ the respondent ”) under
section 185 , and

188.1.b

the CMA has reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent has failed to
comply with one or more of the terms of the undertaking.

188.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (a
“provisional breach of undertakings enforcement notice”).

188.3

A provisional breach of undertakings enforcement notice must—

188.3.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s alleged
acts or omissions giving rise to the belief mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) ;

188.3.b

set out proposed directions for the purpose of securing that the respondent
complies with  subsection (5) ;

188.3.c

invite the respondent to make representations to the CMA about the giving of
the notice;

188.3.d

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

188.4

The means specified under  subsection (3) (d)  for making representations must
include arrangements for them to be made orally if the respondent chooses to
make representations in that way.

188.5

The respondent complies with  this subsection  by—

188.5.a

in the case of a respondent within  section 185 (2) (a) , not continuing or
repeating the infringing practice (where it is believed that the respondent
has engaged or is engaging in that practice);

188.5.b

in the case of a respondent within  section 185 (2) (b) , not consenting to or
conniving in the infringing practice;

188.5.c

in either case, not engaging in the infringing practice in the course of the
respondent’s business or another business;

188.5.d

in either case, not consenting to or conniving in the carrying out of the
infringing practice by a body corporate with which the respondent has a
special relationship (see section  220 ).

188.6

If the CMA is considering the imposition of a monetary penalty on the
respondent (see  section 189 (3) (b) ), the provisional breach of undertakings
enforcement notice must also state—

188.6.a

that the CMA is considering imposing a monetary penalty;

188.6.b

the proposed amount of the penalty (including whether the penalty would be a
fixed amount, an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate or both a
fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate);

188.6.c

any further factors (in addition to those provided under  subsection (3) (a) )
which the CMA considers justify the imposition of the proposed penalty and its
amount or amounts.

###### Final breach of undertakings enforcement notice

189

189.1

This section  applies where—

189.1.a

the CMA has given to the respondent a provisional breach of undertakings
enforcement notice under  section 188 ,

189.1.b

the time for the respondent to make representations to the CMA in accordance
with that notice has expired, and

189.1.c

after considering such representations (if any), the CMA is satisfied that the
respondent has failed to comply with one or more of the terms of the
undertaking.

189.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (a “final
breach of undertakings enforcement notice”).

189.3

A final breach of undertakings enforcement notice may, subject to  subsection
(4) , impose on the respondent a requirement to do either or both of the
following—

189.3.a

to comply with such directions as the CMA considers appropriate for the
purpose of securing that the respondent complies with  section 188 (5) ;

189.3.b

to pay a monetary penalty in respect of the failure mentioned in  subsection
(1) (c) .

189.4

A requirement under subsection (3)(b) to pay a monetary penalty may be imposed
only if the CMA is satisfied that the failure in question is without
reasonable excuse.

189.5

A final breach of undertakings enforcement notice must—

189.5.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s acts or
omissions giving rise to the failure mentioned in  subsection (1) (c) ;

189.5.b

state any further factors (in addition to those provided under  paragraph (a)
) which the CMA considers justify the giving of the notice;

189.5.c

if directions are given under  subsection (3) (a) , specify the actions to be
taken by the respondent in accordance with the directions;

189.5.d

if a penalty is imposed under  subsection (3) (b) , specify the monetary
penalty information (see  section 203 );

189.5.e

state that the respondent has a right to appeal against the notice and the
main details of that right (so far as not stated in accordance with  paragraph
(d) ).

189.6

The CMA may publish a final breach of undertakings enforcement notice in such
manner, and to such extent, as the CMA considers appropriate.

###### Monetary penalties under 

190

190.1

This section  applies in relation to a requirement imposed on the respondent
to pay a monetary penalty under a final breach of undertakings enforcement
notice.

190.2

The amount of the penalty must be—

190.2.a

a fixed amount,

190.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

190.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

190.3

The penalty must not exceed—

190.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, £150,000 or, if higher, 5% of the total value
of the turnover (if any) of the respondent;

190.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
£15,000 or, if higher, 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (if any) of
the respondent;

190.3.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, such fixed amount and such amount per day.

190.4

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

190.4.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the date on which the provisional
breach of undertakings enforcement notice was given to the respondent, and

190.4.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier date, the amount payable ceases to
accumulate on the day on which the requirements of the final breach of
undertakings enforcement notice are complied with.

##### Directions

###### Provisional breach of directions enforcement notice

191

191.1

This section  applies where—

191.1.a

an enforcement direction has been given to a person (“ the respondent ”), and

191.1.b

the CMA has reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent has without
reasonable excuse failed to comply with the direction (fully or to any
respect).

191.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (a
“provisional breach of directions enforcement notice”).

191.3

A provisional breach of directions enforcement notice must—

191.3.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s acts or
omissions giving rise to the belief mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) ;

191.3.b

set out proposed directions for the purpose of securing that the respondent
complies with the direction;

191.3.c

invite the respondent to make representations to the CMA about the giving of
the notice;

191.3.d

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

191.4

The means specified under subsection (3)(d) for making representations must
include arrangements for them to be made orally if the respondent chooses to
make representations in that way.

191.5

A provisional breach of directions enforcement notice must also state—

191.5.a

that the CMA is considering imposing a monetary penalty;

191.5.b

the proposed amount of the penalty (including whether the penalty would be a
fixed amount, an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate or both a
fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate);

191.5.c

any further factors (in addition to those provided under  subsection (3) (a) )
which the CMA considers justify the imposition of the proposed penalty and its
amount or amounts.

191.6

In  this Chapter  “ enforcement direction ” means a direction given in—

191.6.a

a final infringement notice,

191.6.b

an online interface notice, or

191.6.c

a final breach of undertakings enforcement notice.

###### Final breach of directions enforcement notice

192

192.1

This section  applies where—

192.1.a

the CMA has given to the respondent a provisional breach of directions
enforcement notice under  section 191  in respect of a suspected failure to
comply with an enforcement direction,

192.1.b

the time for the respondent to make representations to the CMA in accordance
with that notice has expired, and

192.1.c

after considering such representations (if any), the CMA is satisfied that the
respondent has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with the
direction.

192.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under this section (a “final
breach of directions enforcement notice”).

192.3

A final breach of directions enforcement notice is a notice that imposes on
the respondent a requirement to pay a monetary penalty.

192.4

A final breach of directions enforcement notice must—

192.4.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s acts or
omissions giving rise to the failure mentioned in  subsection (1) (c) ;

192.4.b

state any further factors (in addition to those provided under  paragraph (a)
) which the CMA considers justify the giving of the notice;

192.4.c

specify the monetary penalty information (see  section 203 ).

192.5

A final breach of directions enforcement notice may—

192.5.a

vary or revoke the enforcement direction mentioned in  subsection (1) ;

192.5.b

specify such other directions as the CMA considers appropriate for the purpose
of securing that the respondent complies with the requirements in respect of
which the enforcement direction was given.

192.6

Where a final breach of directions enforcement notice includes provision under
subsection  (5)  that varies an enforcement direction or specifies other
directions, the notice must (in addition to the requirements under subsection
(4) ) also state that the respondent has a right to appeal against the notice
and the main details of that right.

192.7

The CMA may publish a final breach of directions enforcement notice in such
manner, and to such extent, as the CMA considers appropriate.

###### Monetary penalties under 

193

193.1

This section  applies in relation to a requirement imposed on the respondent
to pay a monetary penalty under a final breach of directions enforcement
notice.

193.2

The amount of the penalty must be—

193.2.a

a fixed amount,

193.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

193.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

193.3

The penalty imposed on a person must not exceed—

193.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, £150,000 or, if higher, 5% of the total value
of the turnover (if any) of the respondent;

193.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
£15,000 or, if higher, 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (if any) of
the respondent;

193.3.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, such fixed amount and such amount per day.

193.4

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

193.4.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the date on which the provisional
breach of directions enforcement notice was given to the respondent, and

193.4.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier date, the amount payable ceases to
accumulate on the day on which the relevant directions are fully complied
with.

193.5

In  subsection (4) (b)  the “relevant directions” are—

193.5.a

the enforcement direction mentioned in  section 192 (1) (a)  (if not revoked
under  section 192 (5) (a) );

193.5.b

any further directions specified under  section 192 (5) (b) .

###### Powers of court to enforce directions

194

194.1

This section  applies where the CMA considers that a person (“ the respondent
”) has failed to comply with—

194.1.a

an enforcement direction, or

194.1.b

a direction given in a final breach of directions enforcement notice under
section 192 (5) (b) .

194.2

The CMA may make an application to the appropriate court under  this section .

194.3

If on an application under  subsection (2)  the court finds that the
respondent has failed to comply with the direction concerned, the court may
make an order imposing such requirements on the respondent as the court
considers appropriate for the purpose of remedying the failure.

194.4

An order under  this section  may provide for all of the costs or expenses of,
and incidental to, the application for the order to be met by the respondent
or any officer of a person that is responsible for the respondent’s failure to
comply with the direction.

194.5

Nothing in  this section  limits the powers of the court to make orders under
Chapter 3  or otherwise (and an application under  this section  may be
combined with an application under that Chapter for a consumer protection
order).

194.6

The following provisions of  Chapter 3  apply to an order under  this section
as if the order were a consumer protection order—

194.6.a

section 173  (appropriate court);

194.6.b

section 174  (effect of orders in other parts of the United Kingdom);

194.6.c

section 178  (substantiation of claims).

###### Substantiation of claims

195

195.1

This section  applies where—

195.1.a

the CMA gives a provisional notice under  this Chapter  to a person (“ the
respondent ”) in respect of a relevant infringement involving a contravention
of  Chapter 1  of  Part 4  (protection from unfair trading), and

195.1.b

the respondent makes representations to the CMA in response to that notice.

195.2

The CMA may, for the purpose of considering the representations, require the
respondent to provide evidence as to the accuracy of any factual claim made as
part of a commercial practice of the respondent.

195.3

The CMA may determine that a factual claim of the respondent is inaccurate if—

195.3.a

the respondent fails to provide evidence of the accuracy of the claim in
response to a requirement imposed under  subsection (2) , or

195.3.b

the CMA considers that any such evidence that is provided is inadequate.

195.4

In this section “ provisional notice ” means—

195.4.a

a provisional infringement notice,

195.4.b

a provisional breach of undertakings enforcement notice, or

195.4.c

a provisional breach of directions enforcement notice.

###### Variation or revocation of directions

196

196.1

This section  applies where the CMA proposes to—

196.1.a

make a material variation of an enforcement direction given to a person (“ the
respondent ”), or

196.1.b

revoke any such direction.

196.2

Before taking the proposed action mentioned in  subsection (1)  the CMA must—

196.2.a

give notice to the respondent under  subsection (3) , and

196.2.b

consider any representations made in accordance with the notice.

196.3

A notice under  this subsection  must state—

196.3.a

the fact that CMA is proposing to act as mentioned in  subsection (1) ,

196.3.b

the reasons for doing so, and

196.3.c

the means by which, and the time by which, representations may be made in
relation to the proposed variation or revocation.

196.4

If after considering any representations made in accordance with a notice
under  subsection (3)  the CMA decides to take the action mentioned in
subsection (1) , the CMA must give notice to the respondent of that decision.

196.5

The reference in  subsection (1) (a)  to a material variation is a reference
to any variation that the CMA considers to be material in any respect.

196.6

In  this section  “ enforcement direction ” includes a direction given in a
notice under section  192 (5) (b) .

##### False or misleading information

###### Provisional false information enforcement notice

197

197.1

This section  applies if—

197.1.a

the CMA has reasonable grounds to believe that a person (“ the respondent ”)
has, without reasonable excuse, provided information to the CMA that is
materially false or misleading, and

197.1.b

the information was provided in connection with the carrying out by the CMA of
a direct enforcement function.

197.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (a
“provisional false information enforcement notice”).

197.3

A provisional false information enforcement notice must—

197.3.a

set out the grounds on which it is given;

197.3.b

state that the CMA is considering imposing a monetary penalty;

197.3.c

state the proposed amount of the penalty;

197.3.d

state any further factors (in addition to those provided under paragraph (a))
which the CMA considers justify the imposition of the proposed penalty and its
amount;

197.3.e

invite the respondent to make representations to the CMA about the giving of
the notice;

197.3.f

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

197.4

The means specified under subsection (3)(f) for making representations must
include arrangements for them to be made orally if the respondent chooses to
make representations in that way.

197.5

In  this Part  “ direct enforcement function ” means—

197.5.a

a function of the CMA under  this Chapter , or

197.5.b

a function of the CMA under paragraph 16B or 16C of Schedule 5 to CRA 2015.

###### Final false information enforcement notice

198

198.1

This section  applies where—

198.1.a

the CMA has given to the respondent a provisional false information
enforcement notice under  section 197  in connection with the provision of
information,

198.1.b

the time for the respondent to make representations to the CMA in accordance
with the notice has expired, and

198.1.c

after considering such representations (if any), the CMA is satisfied that—

198.1.c.i

the information mentioned in  paragraph (a)  is materially false or
misleading, and

198.1.c.ii

the respondent provided the false or misleading information without reasonable
excuse.

198.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under  this section  (“a final
false information enforcement notice”).

198.3

A final false information enforcement notice is a notice that imposes on the
respondent a requirement to pay a monetary penalty.

198.4

The amount of the penalty must be a fixed amount not exceeding £30,000 or, if
higher, 1% of the total value of the turnover (if any) of the respondent.

198.5

A final false information enforcement notice must—

198.5.a

set out the grounds on which it is given;

198.5.b

state any further factors (in addition to those provided under  paragraph (a)
) which the CMA considers justify the giving of the notice;

198.5.c

specify the monetary penalty information (see  section 203 ).

198.6

The CMA may publish a final false information enforcement notice in such
manner, and to such extent, as the CMA considers appropriate.

##### Miscellaneous and appeals

###### Statement of policy in relation to monetary penalties

199

199.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
exercise of powers to impose a monetary penalty under this Chapter.

199.2

The statement must include a statement about the considerations relevant to
the determination of—

199.2.a

whether to impose a penalty under this Chapter, and

199.2.b

the nature and amount of any such penalty.

199.3

The CMA may revise its statement of policy and, where it does so, must publish
the revised statement.

199.4

In preparing or revising its statement of policy the CMA must consult—

199.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

199.4.b

such other persons as the CMA considers appropriate.

199.5

A statement of policy, or revised statement, may not be published under  this
section  without the approval of the Secretary of State.

199.6

Subsection (7)  applies where the CMA proposes to impose under this Chapter a
monetary penalty on a person.

199.7

The CMA must have regard to the statement of policy most recently published
under  this section  at the time of the act or omission giving rise to the
penalty in deciding—

199.7.a

whether to impose the penalty, and

199.7.b

if so, the nature and amount of the penalty.

###### Interconnected bodies corporate

200

200.1

This section applies where—

200.1.a

the CMA gives to a body corporate (“ the respondent ”) a final notice, and

200.1.b

the interconnection condition applies in relation to the respondent.

200.2

The interconnection condition applies in relation to the respondent if—

200.2.a

at the time the final notice is given, the respondent is a member of a group
of interconnected bodies corporate,

200.2.b

at any time when requirements imposed by the final notice remain in force, the
respondent becomes a member of a group of interconnected bodies corporate, or

200.2.c

at any time when requirements imposed by the final notice remain in force, a
group of interconnected bodies corporate of which the respondent is a member
is increased by the addition of one or more further members.

200.3

The notice may include provision for the requirements (or any particular
requirements) imposed by the final notice on the respondent also to be binding
upon all other members of the group (in addition to the respondent), as if
each of them were the respondent.

200.4

Provision may be included in a notice under  subsection (3)  only if the CMA
considers it just, reasonable and proportionate to include that provision.

200.5

A group of interconnected bodies corporate is a group consisting of two or
more bodies corporate all of whom are interconnected with each other.

200.6

Any two bodies corporate are interconnected—

200.6.a

if one of them is a subsidiary of the other, or

200.6.b

if both of them are subsidiaries of the same body corporate.

200.7

Where a final notice includes provision under  subsection (3) , the notice
must also be given to any other member of the respondent’s group in relation
to which the requirements imposed by the notice are to be binding.

200.8

In this section “ final notice ” means—

200.8.a

a final infringement notice,

200.8.b

an online interface notice, or

200.8.c

a final breach of directions enforcement notice.

###### Record-keeping and reporting requirements

201

201.1

The CMA must keep a record of—

201.1.a

undertakings it has accepted and enforcement directions it has given, and

201.1.b

reviews it has carried out in relation to the effectiveness of such
undertakings and directions.

201.2

If requested to do so by the Secretary of State, the CMA must prepare a report
on—

201.2.a

the effectiveness of undertakings and enforcement directions, and

201.2.b

the number and outcome of appeals brought under  section 202 .

201.3

The CMA must—

201.3.a

provide to the Secretary of State a report prepared under  this section , and

201.3.b

publish the report in such manner as the CMA considers appropriate.

201.4

In  this section —

201.4.a

“ undertakings ” means undertakings given under  section 185 ;

201.4.b

“ enforcement directions ” includes directions given in a notice under
section 192 (5) (b) .

###### Appeals

202

202.1

A person to whom a relevant notice is given may appeal to the appropriate
appeal court against—

202.1.a

a decision to impose a monetary penalty by virtue of the notice,

202.1.b

the nature or amount of any such penalty, or

202.1.c

the giving of directions by virtue of the notice.

202.2

The grounds for an appeal under  subsection (1) (a)  or (b) are that—

202.2.a

the decision to impose a monetary penalty was based on an error of fact,

202.2.b

the decision was wrong in law,

202.2.c

the amount of the penalty is unreasonable, or

202.2.d

the decision was unreasonable or wrong for any other reason.

202.3

The grounds for an appeal under  subsection (1) (c)  are that—

202.3.a

the decision to give the directions was based on an error of fact,

202.3.b

the decision was wrong in law,

202.3.c

the nature of the directions is unreasonable, or

202.3.d

the decision was unreasonable or wrong for any other reason.

202.4

On an appeal under  this section  the appropriate appeal court may quash,
confirm or vary the relevant notice.

202.5

Except in the case of an appeal relating to a final false information
enforcement notice, in addition to the powers conferred by subsection  (4)
the appropriate appeal court may also remit any matter that is the subject of
the appeal to the CMA.

202.6

An appeal under  this section  must be brought before the end of the
applicable period beginning with the day on which the relevant notice was
given to the person seeking to bring the appeal.

202.7

The appropriate appeal court may extend the applicable period for bringing an
appeal.

202.8

Where an appeal is brought in respect of—

202.8.a

a requirement to pay a monetary penalty, or

202.8.b

a requirement to pay compensation under directions imposing enhanced consumer
measures,

the penalty or compensation is not required to be paid until after the appeal
is determined, withdrawn or otherwise dealt with.

202.9

In  this section —

      “ applicable period ” means—         in relation to a final false
information enforcement notice, the period of 28 days;           in relation
to any other relevant notice, the period of 60 days;                 “
appropriate appeal court ” means—         in relation to England and Wales or
Northern Ireland, the High Court;           in relation to Scotland, the Outer
House of the Court of Session;                 “ relevant notice ” means—
a final infringement notice,           an online interface notice,           a
final breach of undertakings enforcement notice,           a final breach of
directions enforcement notice, or           a final false information
enforcement notice.

#### Monetary penalties: general provisions

##### Information to accompany orders or notices imposing monetary penalties

203

203.1

An order or notice under Chapter  3  or  4  under which a person (“ the
respondent ”) is required to pay a monetary penalty must state the following
information (referred to in those Chapters as the “monetary penalty
information”)—

203.1.a

the amount of the penalty (including whether it is a fixed amount, an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate or both a fixed amount and an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate);

203.1.b

the grounds on which the penalty is imposed together with any other factors
that the court (in the case of an order) or the CMA (in the case of a notice)
considers justify the giving of the penalty or its amount;

203.1.c

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, the day on
which the amount first starts to accumulate and the day or days on which it
might cease to accumulate;

203.1.d

how the penalty is to be paid;

203.1.e

the date or dates, no earlier than the end of the applicable period beginning
with the date on which the order was served on or the notice was given to the
respondent, by which the penalty or (as the case may be) different portions of
it are required to be paid;

203.1.f

that the penalty or (as the case may be) different portions of it may be paid
earlier than the date or dates by which it or they are required to be paid;

203.1.g

that the respondent has the right to apply under  subsection (3)  (in the case
of an order) or  subsection (4)  (in the case of a notice);

203.1.h

the rights available to the respondent to appeal in respect of the imposition
of the penalty;

203.1.i

the main details of the rights mentioned in paragraphs  (g)  and  (h) .

203.2

In subsection (1)(e) “ the applicable period ” means—

203.2.a

in the case of an order or a final false information enforcement notice, the
period of 28 days;

203.2.b

in any other case, the period of 60 days.

203.3

The respondent may, within 14 days of the date on which an order imposing a
monetary penalty is served on the respondent, apply to the court for the court
to specify a different date or dates by which the penalty, or different
portions of it, are to be paid.

203.4

The respondent may, within 14 days of the date on which a notice imposing a
monetary penalty is given to the respondent, apply to the CMA to specify a
different date or dates by which the penalty, or different portions of it, are
required to be paid.

203.5

References in subsections  (1)  and  (2)  to an order include references to a
notice accompanying such an order given under  section 158 (4) .

203.6

In the application of this section to Scotland, the references in subsections
(1) (e)  and  (3)  to an order being served include service of an extract
order in execution of or diligence on the order.

##### Determination of turnover

204

204.1

In  this Part  references to “turnover” of a person include—

204.1.a

turnover both in and outside the United Kingdom;

204.1.b

where the person controls another person, the turnover of that other person;

204.1.c

where the person is controlled by another person, the turnover of that person.

204.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

204.2.a

make provision for determining when a person is to be treated as controlled by
another person for the purposes of subsection (1)(b) and (c);

204.2.b

make provision for determining the turnover of a person for the purposes of
this Part.

204.3

Regulations under this section may, in particular, make provision as to—

204.3.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising a
person’s turnover or daily turnover;

204.3.b

the date or dates by reference to which a person’s turnover or daily turnover
is to be determined.

204.4

Regulations under this section may include provision enabling the court or the
CMA to determine matters of a description specified in the regulations
(including any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
subsection (3) ).

204.5

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Power to amend amounts

205

205.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend any of the following
provisions for the purpose of substituting a different monetary amount for an
amount of fixed or daily penalty for the time being specified—

205.1.a

section 158 (5) ;

205.1.b

section 168 (3) (a)  and  (b) ;

205.1.c

section 182 (6) ;

205.1.d

section 190 (3) (a)  and  (b) ;

205.1.e

section 193 (3) (a)  and  (b) ;

205.1.f

section 198 (4) .

205.2

Before making regulations under  this section  the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

205.3

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Recovery of monetary penalties

206

206.1

This section  applies where a monetary penalty imposed under  Chapter 4 , or
any part of such a penalty, has not been paid by the date on which it is
required to be paid and—

206.1.a

an appeal to a court against the imposition of the penalty has not been
brought before the end of the period within which it is required to be
brought, or

206.1.b

any such appeal that was brought has been determined, withdrawn or otherwise
disposed of.

206.2

The CMA may recover from the person on whom the penalty was imposed any of the
penalty and any interest which has not been paid.

206.3

Any such penalty and interest may be recovered summarily (or, in Scotland,
recovered) as a civil debt by the CMA.

206.4

Subsection (5)  applies where—

206.4.a

a penalty is payable by a person by virtue of a final infringement notice,

206.4.b

the notice also includes directions imposing a requirement on the person to
take enhanced consumer measures, and

206.4.c

the enhanced consumer measures that the person is required to take are or
include redress measures (see  section 221 (2) ).

206.5

In deciding whether to recover the penalty from the person under  subsection
(2) , the CMA must have regard to—

206.5.a

whether any compensation required to be paid to consumers under the redress
measures has been, or is likely to be, paid, and

206.5.b

where any such payments have not yet been paid (in full or in part), the
effect that recovery of the penalty from the person may have on the person’s
ability to make those compensatory payments.

##### Monetary penalties: further provision

207

207.1

If the whole or any portion of a monetary penalty imposed is not paid by the
date by which it is required to be paid, the unpaid balance from time to time
carries interest at the statutory rate.

207.2

Where an application has been made under  section 203 (3)  or  (4) , the
penalty is not required to be paid until the application has been determined,
withdrawn or otherwise disposed of.

207.3

Where an application has been made to appeal to a court in respect of a
monetary penalty, the penalty is not required to be paid until the application
has been determined, withdrawn or otherwise disposed of.

207.4

If a portion of a monetary penalty imposed by an order of the court has not
been paid by the date required for it, the court may, where it considers it
appropriate to do so, by order require so much of the penalty as has not
already been paid (and is capable of being paid immediately) to be paid
immediately.

207.5

If a portion of a monetary penalty imposed by virtue of a notice given by the
CMA has not been paid by the date required for it, the CMA may, where it
considers it appropriate to do so, by notice require so much of the penalty as
has not already been paid (and is capable of being paid immediately) to be
paid immediately.

207.6

Where on an appeal under  section 202  the court substitutes a penalty of a
different nature or of a lesser amount, the court may require the payment of
interest at the statutory rate on the substituted penalty from whatever date
it considers appropriate (which may include a date before the determination of
the appeal).

207.7

In the case of a monetary penalty imposed on a firm that is not a body
corporate, the penalty is to be paid out of the assets or funds of the firm.

207.8

Sums received from a person towards payment of a monetary penalty must be
paid—

207.8.a

in the case of a penalty imposed by an order of the Court of Session or the
Sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund;

207.8.b

in the case of a penalty imposed by an order of a court in Northern Ireland,
into the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland;

207.8.c

in any other case, into the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom.

207.9

In  this section —

      “ monetary penalty ” means a monetary penalty imposed under Chapter  3
or  4 ;           “ the statutory rate ” means the rate for the time being
specified in section 17 of the Judgments Act 1838.

#### Investigatory powers

##### Investigatory powers of enforcers

208

208.1

Schedule 17  contains amendments to Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 (investigatory
powers), including amendments about—

208.1.a

the giving of monetary penalties in connection with a failure to comply with
an information notice;

208.1.b

the giving of information notices to persons outside the United Kingdom;

208.1.c

the means by which information notices are to be given;

208.1.d

entry to premises where documents are accessible from the premises.

208.2

In  subsection (1)  “ information notice ” means a notice given under
paragraph 14 of Schedule 5 to CRA 2015.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Powers to amend 

209

209.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend—

209.1.a

the first column of the Table in Part 1 of  Schedule 15  so as to add, remove
or vary an entry for an enactment;

209.1.b

the second column of that Table so as to add, remove or vary an entry
providing for the authorised enforcers in respect of an enactment;

209.1.c

the third column of that Table in consequence of amendments made under the
power conferred by paragraph (a);

209.1.d

the second column of the Table in  Part 2  of  Schedule 15  so as to add,
remove or vary an entry providing for the authorised enforcers in respect of
an obligation or rule of law;

209.1.e

Schedule 16  so as to add, remove or vary an entry for an enactment.

209.2

The power under  subsection (1) (a)  or  (e)  is exercisable so as to add or
vary an entry in respect of an enactment only if, and to the extent that, one
or more of the following is provided for under or by virtue of the enactment
so added or varied—

209.2.a

a duty, prohibition or restriction enforceable by criminal proceedings;

209.2.b

a duty owed to a person that is enforceable by civil proceedings;

209.2.c

a remedy or sanction enforceable by civil proceedings;

209.2.d

an agreement or security relating to a supply of goods, services or digital
content to be void or unenforceable to any extent;

209.2.e

a right or remedy exercisable by a person supplying goods, services or digital
content to be restricted or excluded;

209.2.f

the avoidance (to any extent) of liability relating to the supply of goods,
services or digital content to be restricted or prevented.

209.3

It is immaterial for the purposes of  subsection (2)  whether or not—

209.3.a

a duty, prohibition or restriction exists in relation to consumers as such;

209.3.b

a remedy or sanction is provided for the benefit of consumers as such;

209.3.c

proceedings have been brought in relation to the act or omission concerned;

209.3.d

a person has been convicted of an offence in relation to the act or omission
concerned.

209.4

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Rules

210

210.1

The CMA may make rules about procedural and other matters in connection with
the carrying out of its direct enforcement functions.

210.2

Rules may provide for any of the CMA’s direct enforcement functions to be
carried out on its behalf—

210.2.a

by one or more members of the CMA Board (see Part 2 of Schedule 4 to the
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013);

210.2.b

by one or more members of the CMA Panel (see Part 3 of Schedule 4 to that
Act);

210.2.c

by one or more members of staff of the CMA;

210.2.d

jointly by one or more of the persons mentioned in  paragraphs (a)  to  (c) .

210.3

Rules may (among other things) include provision as to the following matters
so far as relating to the carrying out of direct enforcement functions—

210.3.a

the form and manner in which a notice given by the CMA under a direct
enforcement function is to be given (subject to  section 332 );

210.3.b

the person (or persons) to whom the notice is to be given;

210.3.c

if the CMA is required to publish the notice, the manner in which it is to do
so;

210.3.d

arrangements to ensure the protection of confidential information;

210.3.e

the disclosure of information to persons under investigation;

210.3.f

the form and manner in which representations may or must be made to the CMA;

210.3.g

the procedure to be followed in relation to the holding of oral hearings as
part of an investigation;

210.3.h

the procedure to be followed in cases where a person under investigation
accepts that there has been a relevant infringement of a kind to which the
investigation relates;

210.3.i

arrangements for the making of, and dealing with, complaints.

210.4

In  this section  and  section 211  “ rules ” means rules made under  this
section .

##### Procedural requirements for making of rules

211

211.1

In preparing rules the CMA must consult such persons as the CMA considers
appropriate.

211.2

The CMA may not bring a rule into operation until the rule has been approved
by regulations made by the Secretary of State.

211.3

The Secretary of State may approve a rule—

211.3.a

in the form in which it is submitted, or

211.3.b

subject to whatever modifications the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

211.4

Where the Secretary of State proposes to approve a rule subject to
modifications, the Secretary of State must—

211.4.a

inform the CMA of the proposed modifications, and

211.4.b

take into account any comments made by the CMA about the proposed
modifications.

211.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

211.5.a

vary or revoke rules, or

211.5.b

direct the CMA to vary or revoke rules in accordance with the direction.

211.6

Subsections (2)  to  (4)  apply to any variation of rules made by the CMA,
except where acting under a direction given under  subsection (5) (b) .

211.7

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Guidance

212

212.1

The CMA must prepare and publish guidance about its general approach to the
carrying out of its direct enforcement functions.

212.2

Guidance under  subsection (1)  must provide information about the factors
that the CMA will take into account in determining—

212.2.a

whether it will exercise a power under  Chapter 4  to accept, vary or release
an undertaking;

212.2.b

in cases where the exercise of any such power is exercisable only if the CMA
considers a person has acted (or failed to act) without a reasonable excuse,
whether a reasonable excuse exists;

212.2.c

in a case where a monetary penalty has not been paid (or paid in full),
whether to start proceedings for recovery of the penalty.

212.3

Guidance under  subsection (1)  may include information about any other
matters in connection with the carrying out of direct enforcement functions,
including the factors that the CMA will take into account in determining
whether to give a notice to a person in the carrying out of those functions.

212.4

The CMA—

212.4.a

must keep the guidance under review, and

212.4.b

may from time to time revise or replace the guidance.

212.5

Before issuing the first guidance under  this section  the CMA must consult—

212.5.a

the Secretary of State, and

212.5.b

such other persons as the CMA considers appropriate.

212.6

The CMA must—

212.6.a

before publishing the first guidance under this section, obtain the approval
of the Secretary of State in respect of the proposed guidance;

212.6.b

before revising or replacing any guidance published under this section, inform
the Secretary of State of the proposed revision or replacement.

##### Defamation

213

For the purposes of the law relating to defamation, absolute privilege
attaches to anything done by the CMA in exercise of its functions under this
Part.

##### Minor and consequential amendments relating to this Part

214

Schedule 18  contains minor and consequential amendments relating to this
Part.

##### Transitional and saving provision relating to this Part

215

Schedule 19  contains transitional and saving provision relating to this Part.

##### Enforcement of requirements relating to secondary ticketing

216

216.1

CRA 2015 is amended as set out in subsections (2) to (4).

216.2

In section 93 (enforcement of secondary ticketing provisions in Chapter 5 of
Part 3)—

216.2.a

after subsection (2) insert—

216.2.a.2A

The Competition and Markets Authority may also enforce the provisions of this
Chapter.

;

216.2.b

in subsection (3) for “and (2)” substitute  “, (2) and (2A)” .

216.3

In paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 (investigatory powers etc: enforcer’s
legislation), in the table, at the appropriate place insert—

    The Competition and Markets Authority The Breaching of Limits on Ticket
Sales Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/735 )

.

216.4

In paragraph 6 of Schedule 10 (procedure for and appeals against financial
penalties imposed under section 93: recovery)—

216.4.a

in sub-paragraph (2) for “local weights and measures” substitute
“enforcement” ;

216.4.b

in sub-paragraph (4) for “the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment”
substitute  “the enforcement authority which imposed the financial penalty” ;

216.4.c

in sub-paragraph (5)(a) after “Investment” insert  “or by the Competition and
Markets Authority” ;

216.4.d

after sub-paragraph (7) insert—

216.4.d.7A

The Competition and Markets Authority may use the proceeds of a financial
penalty for the purposes of any of its functions (whether or not the function
is expressed to be a function of the Authority).

216.5

In the Breaching of Limits on Ticket Sales Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/735 ),
in regulation 5 (offences: prosecution and penalties), after paragraph (2)
insert—

216.5.3

The Competition and Markets Authority may enforce these Regulations.

#### Interpretation of Part

##### Supply of goods or digital content

217

217.1

This section  provides for how references to the supply of goods or digital
content are to be read for the purposes of  this Part .

217.2

References to a person who supplies goods or digital content are to be read as
including references to a person who seeks to supply goods or digital content
(and references to a person who receives goods or digital content are to be
read in a corresponding way).

217.3

The supply of goods includes, in relation to buildings and other structures,
construction of them by one person for another.

217.4

References to a person supplying goods under—

217.4.a

a hire-purchase agreement,

217.4.b

a credit-sale agreement, or

217.4.c

a conditional sale agreement,

are to be read as including references to a person who conducts any antecedent
negotiations relating to the agreement.

217.5

The following terms have the meanings given by section 189(1) of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974—

      “ antecedent negotiations ”;           “ conditional sale agreement ”;
“ credit sale agreement ”;           “ hire-purchase agreement ”.

##### Supply of services

218

218.1

This section  provides for how references to the supply of services are to be
read for the purposes of  this Part .

218.2

References to a person who supplies services are to be read as including
references to a person who seeks to supply services (and references to a
person who receives services are to be read in a corresponding way).

218.3

The supply of services does not include the provision of services under a
contract of service or of apprenticeship.

218.4

It is immaterial whether the contract mentioned in  subsection (3) —

218.4.a

is express or implied, or

218.4.b

if express, is oral or in writing.

218.5

The supply of services includes—

218.5.a

performing for gain or reward any activity other than the supply of goods or
digital content;

218.5.b

rendering services to order;

218.5.c

the provision of services by making them available to potential users;

218.5.d

making arrangements for sharing the use of electronic communications apparatus
by means of a relevant agreement, within the meaning of paragraph 18 of
Schedule 3A to the Communications Act 2003 (the electronic communications
code);

218.5.e

agreeing to the full or partial settlement of a consumer’s liabilities or
purported liabilities in return for the consumer meeting a demand for payment.

##### Accessories

219

219.1

This section  applies for the purposes of  this Part .

219.2

A person (“ A ”) is an accessory to a commercial practice of another person (“
B ”) if—

219.2.a

B is a body corporate,

219.2.b

A has a special relationship with B,

219.2.c

the commercial practice is one that B has engaged in or is engaging in, and

219.2.d

the commercial practice takes place with the consent or connivance of A.

##### Special relationships

220

220.1

This section  applies for the purposes of  this Part .

220.2

A person has a special relationship with a body corporate if the person is—

220.2.a

a controller of the body corporate, or

220.2.b

a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate
or a person purporting to act in such a capacity.

220.3

A person is a controller of a body corporate if—

220.3.a

the directors of the body corporate, or of another body corporate which is its
controller, are accustomed to act in accordance with the person’s directions
or instructions, or

220.3.b

either alone or with one or more associates, the person is entitled to
exercise or control the exercise of one third or more of the voting power at
any general meeting of the body corporate or of another body corporate which
is its controller.

220.4

A person (“ P ”) is an associate of an individual if—

220.4.a

P is the spouse or civil partner of the individual;

220.4.b

P is a relative of the individual;

220.4.c

P is a relative of the individual’s spouse or civil partner;

220.4.d

P is the spouse or civil partner of a relative of the individual;

220.4.e

P is a spouse or civil partner of a relative of the individual’s spouse or
civil partner;

220.4.f

P lives in the same household as the individual otherwise than merely because
P, or the individual, is the other’s employer, tenant, lodger or boarder;

220.4.g

P is the relative of a person who is an associate of the individual by virtue
of  paragraph (f) ;

220.4.h

P has at some time in the past fallen within any of  paragraphs (a)  to  (g) ;

220.4.i

P is in partnership with the individual;

220.4.j

the individual is an associate of an individual with whom P is in partnership.

220.5

A person (“ P ”) is an associate of a body corporate if—

220.5.a

P is a controller of the body corporate, or

220.5.b

P is an associate of a person who is a controller of the body corporate.

220.6

A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate if—

220.6.a

the same person is a controller of both;

220.6.b

a person (“ P ”) is a controller of one and persons who are P’s associates are
controllers of the other;

220.6.c

a person (“ P ”) is a controller of one and P and persons who are P’s
associates are controllers of the other;

220.6.d

a group of two or more persons is a controller of each company and the groups
consist of the same persons;

220.6.e

a group of two or more persons is a controller of each company and the groups
may be regarded as consisting of the same persons by treating (in one or more
cases) a member of either group as replaced by a person of whom that person is
an associate.

220.7

In  this section  “ relative ” means a brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew,
niece, lineal ancestor or lineal descendant.

##### Enhanced consumer measures

221

221.1

References in  this Part  to “enhanced consumer measures” are references to—

221.1.a

redress measures (see  subsection (2) ),

221.1.b

compliance measures (see  subsection (3) ), or

221.1.c

choice measures (see  subsection (4) ).

221.2

Redress measures are—

221.2.a

measures offering compensation or other redress to affected consumers;

221.2.b

in cases where the commercial practice constituting a relevant infringement
relates to a contract, measures enabling affected consumers the option to
terminate (but not vary) the contract;

221.2.c

in cases where the affected consumers cannot be identified, or cannot be
identified without disproportionate cost to the person giving the undertaking
in question or against whom the order in question is made, measures intended
to be in the collective interests of consumers.

221.3

Compliance measures are measures intended to prevent, or reduce the risk of
the occurrence or repetition of, the infringing conduct (which may include
measures imposed for the purpose of improving compliance with consumer law
more generally).

221.4

Choice measures are measures intended to enable consumers to choose more
effectively between persons supplying goods, services or digital content.

221.5

In  this section —

221.5.a

references to affected consumers are references to consumers who have suffered
loss as a result of the infringing conduct or who have otherwise been affected
in any other way by the conduct;

221.5.b

references to the “ infringing conduct ” are to the conduct that has given
rise to the enforcement order or undertaking concerned.

##### Other interpretative provisions

222

In  this Part —

      “ business ” includes—         a trade, craft or profession,
any other undertaking carried on for gain or reward, and           the
activities of any government department or local or public authority;
“ enforcement order ” means an order made under  section 156 ;           “
enforcer ” means a public designated enforcer or a private designated
enforcer;           “ goods ” includes—         immoveable property, and
rights and obligations;                 “ interim enforcement order ” means an
order made under  section 159 ;           “ interim online interface order ”
means an order made under  section 162 ;           “ online interface order ”
means an order made under  section 161 ;           “ subsidiary ” has the
meaning given by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006;           “ supply ”
includes supply by means of sale, lease, hire or hire purchase.

##### Index of defined expressions

223

In  this Part , the expressions listed in the left-hand column have the
meaning given by, or are to be interpreted in accordance with, the provisions
listed in the right-hand column.

    Expression Provision   Accessory Section 219   Appropriate court Section
173   Business Section 222   Commercial practice Section  148 (2)   Consumer
Section  148 (2)   Consumer protection order Section  166 (2)   Digital
content Section  330   Direct enforcement function Section 197 (5)   Enactment
Section  330   Enforcement direction Section 191 (6)   Enforcement order
Section 222   Enforcer Section 222   Enhanced consumer measures Section 221
Final breach of directions enforcement notice Section 192 (2)   Final breach
of undertakings enforcement notice Section 189 (2)   Final false information
enforcement notice Section 198 (2)   Final infringement notice Section 182 (2)
Goods Section 222   Interim enforcement order Section 222   Interim online
interface order Section 222   Online interface notice Section 184 (2)   Online
interface order Section 222   Private designated enforcer Section 151 (2)
Provisional breach of directions enforcement notice Section 191 (2)
Provisional breach of undertakings enforcement notice Section 188 (2)
Provisional false information enforcement notice Section 197 (2)   Provisional
infringement notice Section 181 (3)   Public designated enforcer Section  151
(1)   Relevant infringement Section  148   Special relationship Section 220
Subsidiary Section 222   Supply of goods Section 217   Supply of services
Section 218   Trader Section  148 (2)   Turnover Section 204   United Kingdom
national Section 330

### Consumer rights and disputes

#### Protection from unfair trading

##### Introduction

###### Overview

224

224.1

This Chapter confers protections on consumers from unfair commercial
practices.

224.2

Section  225  sets out what are unfair commercial practices and prohibits the
use and promotion of them.

224.3

Sections  226  to  230  provide more detail about commercial practices which
are unfair because they are misleading, aggressive or omit material
information, or because they contravene the requirements of professional
diligence.

224.4

Section  231  requires, or confers power on, specified public bodies to
enforce the prohibitions in section  225 .

224.5

Sections  232  to  235  confer rights on consumers in relation to unfair
commercial practices and make related provision.

224.6

Section  236  sets out what happens when a trader supplies a product to a
consumer that the consumer has not requested.

224.7

Sections  237  to  241  create criminal offences in relation to unfair
commercial practices and make related provision.

224.8

Sections  242  to  252  contain miscellaneous and interpretative provisions in
relation to this Chapter.

##### Prohibition of unfair commercial practices

###### Prohibition of unfair commercial practices

225

225.1

Unfair commercial practices are prohibited.

225.2

The promotion of unfair commercial practices in, or in connection with, a code
of conduct by—

225.2.a

a person responsible for the content of a code of conduct, or

225.2.b

a person responsible for monitoring compliance with a code of conduct,

is prohibited.

225.3

In this Chapter—

      “ commercial practice ” means an act or omission by a trader relating to
the promotion or supply of—         the trader’s product to a consumer,
another trader’s product to a consumer, or           a consumer’s product to
the trader or another person;                 “ consumer ” means an individual
acting for purposes that are wholly or mainly outside the individual’s
business;           “ trader ” means—         a person (“ P ”) acting for
purposes relating to P’s business, or           a person acting in the name
of, or on behalf of, P for purposes relating to P’s business.

225.4

A commercial practice is unfair if—

225.4.a

it is likely to cause the average consumer to take a transactional decision
that the consumer would not have taken otherwise as a result of the practice
involving one or more of the following—

225.4.a.i

a misleading action (see section  226 );

225.4.a.ii

a misleading omission (see section  227 );

225.4.a.iii

an aggressive practice (see section  228 );

225.4.a.iv

a contravention of the requirements of professional diligence (see section
229 ),

225.4.b

it omits material information from an invitation to purchase (see section  230
), or

225.4.c

it is listed in  Schedule 20  (commercial practices which are in all
circumstances considered unfair).

225.5

It is immaterial for the purposes of the definition of “commercial practice”
in subsection  (3)  whether the act or omission takes place—

225.5.a

at the time of the promotion or supply in question, or

225.5.b

before or after that time.

225.6

It is immaterial for the purposes of the definition of “trader” in subsection
(3) —

225.6.a

in relation to paragraph (a) of that definition, whether P is acting
personally or through another person acting in P’s name or on P’s behalf;

225.6.b

in relation to paragraph (b) of that definition, whether or not the purposes
relating to P’s business are the only or main purposes for which the person is
acting.

###### Misleading actions

226

226.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, a commercial practice involves a misleading
action if the practice involves—

226.1.a

the provision of false or misleading information relating to a product, a
trader or any other matter relevant to a transactional decision,

226.1.b

an overall presentation which is likely to deceive the average consumer about
a matter relating to a product, a trader or any other matter relevant to a
transactional decision,

226.1.c

any marketing of a product which creates confusion, or is likely to create
confusion, with any product, trade mark, trade name or other distinguishing
mark of another trader, or

226.1.d

a failure to comply with a requirement in a code of conduct to which
subsection  (5)  applies in circumstances where the trader asserts that the
trader acts in compliance with that code.

226.2

In subsection  (1) (a) , the reference to misleading information includes a
reference to information which, although true, is presented in a misleading
way.

226.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (b) , an overall presentation may be
deceiving even if the information it contains is true.

226.4

In subsection  (1) (c) , the reference to another trader is a reference to a
trader other than the trader supplying the product that is being marketed.

226.5

This subsection applies to a requirement in a code of conduct if—

226.5.a

there is no discretion afforded to the trader in relation to the requirement,
and

226.5.b

compliance with the requirement is capable of being verified.

###### Misleading omissions

227

227.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, a commercial practice involves a misleading
omission if, considering the matters mentioned in subsection  (3) , the
practice—

227.1.a

omits material information,

227.1.b

omits information which the trader is required under any other enactment to
give to a consumer as part of the practice, or

227.1.c

fails to identify its commercial intent (unless it is already apparent from
the context).

227.2

In subsection  (1) (a) , “ material information ” means information that the
average consumer needs to take an informed transactional decision.

227.3

The matters referred to in subsection  (1)  are—

227.3.a

any limitations resulting from the means of communication used in the
commercial practice (including limitations of space or time), and

227.3.b

any steps taken by the trader to overcome those limitations by providing
information by other means.

227.4

In this section, references to omitting information include providing
information—

227.4.a

in a way that is unclear or untimely, or

227.4.b

in such a way that the consumer is unlikely to see it.

###### Aggressive practices

228

228.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, a commercial practice involves an aggressive
practice if it uses harassment, coercion or undue influence.

228.2

In determining whether a commercial practice uses harassment, coercion or
undue influence, account must be taken of—

228.2.a

the nature of the practice;

228.2.b

the timing and location of the practice;

228.2.c

whether the practice involves the use of any threatening or abusive language
or behaviour;

228.2.d

whether the practice exploits any vulnerability of a consumer (including any
vulnerability of a kind mentioned in  section 247 (4) );

228.2.e

whether the practice involves a threat to take action which cannot legally be
taken;

228.2.f

whether the practice requires a consumer to take onerous or disproportionate
action in order to exercise rights that the consumer has in relation to a
product.

228.3

In this section—

228.3.a

“ coercion ” includes the use or threat of physical force;

228.3.b

“ undue influence ” means exploiting a position of power in relation to a
consumer so as to apply pressure in a way which significantly limits the
consumer’s ability to make an informed decision.

###### Contravention of the requirements of professional diligence

229

For the purposes of this Chapter, a commercial practice involves a
contravention of the requirements of professional diligence if the practice
falls short of the standard of skill and care which a trader may reasonably be
expected to exercise towards consumers which is commensurate with either—

229.a

honest market practice in the trader’s field of activity, or

229.b

the general principle of good faith in the trader’s field of activity.

###### Omission of material information from invitation to purchase

230

230.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, a commercial practice which is an invitation
to purchase omits material information if, considering the matters mentioned
in subsection  (8) , it omits any of the information which is—

230.1.a

set out in subsection  (2) , and

230.1.b

not already apparent from the context.

230.2

The information referred to in subsection  (1)  is—

230.2.a

the main characteristics of the product (to the extent appropriate considering
the means used to communicate the invitation to purchase and the nature of the
product);

230.2.b

the total price of the product (so far as paragraph  (c)  does not apply);

230.2.c

if, owing to the nature of the product, the whole or any part of the total
price cannot reasonably be calculated in advance, how the price (or that part
of it) will be calculated;

230.2.d

the identity of the trader and the identity of any other person on whose
behalf the trader is acting;

230.2.e

the business address and, if different, the service address of the trader and
any business email address of the trader;

230.2.f

in relation to any other person on whose behalf the trader is acting—

230.2.f.i

the person’s business address and business email address (if the person has
such addresses), and

230.2.f.ii

if different to the person’s business address, the person’s service address;

230.2.g

any freight, delivery or postal charges, including any taxes, not included in
the total price of the product but which the consumer may choose to incur (or
where those additional charges or taxes cannot reasonably be calculated in
advance, the fact that they may be payable);

230.2.h

for products involving a right of withdrawal or cancellation, the existence of
such a right;

230.2.i

to the extent that the trader’s practice in relation to any of the
arrangements mentioned in subsection  (3)  departs from the trader’s published
practice in relation to those arrangements, the practice which the trader is
currently operating;

230.2.j

any information which the trader is required under any other enactment to give
to a consumer as part of an invitation to purchase.

230.3

The arrangements referred to in subsection  (2) (i)  are—

230.3.a

the arrangements for payment;

230.3.b

the arrangements for delivery of the product;

230.3.c

the arrangements for performance;

230.3.d

the arrangements for handling complaints.

230.4

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (b)  the total price of a product includes
any fees, taxes, charges or other payments that the consumer will necessarily
incur if the consumer purchases the product.

230.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (c)  (and subject to the matters mentioned
in subsection  (8) ) the information given must—

230.5.a

be such that it enables the consumer to calculate the total price, and

230.5.b

be set out with as much prominence as any information that is set out in
compliance with  subsection (2) (b) .

230.6

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (d)  “ identity ”, in relation to a
trader, means—

230.6.a

the name of the trader, and

230.6.b

if different, the name under which the trader trades.

230.7

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (e) —

      “ business address ”, in relation to a person, means—         where the
person is a body corporate, the address of its registered or principal office,
where the person is a firm that is not a body corporate, the address of the
principal office of the firm, or           in a case where neither paragraph
(a) or (b) applies, the address of the person’s principal place of business;
“ business email address ”, in relation to a person, means any email address
used by the person for conducting business;           “ service address ”, in
relation to a person, means the address at which the person will accept
service of documents.

230.8

The matters referred to in subsection  (1)  are—

230.8.a

any limitations resulting from the means of communication used in the
commercial practice (including limitations of space or time), and

230.8.b

any steps taken by the trader to overcome those limitations by providing
information by other means.

230.9

In this section, references to omitting information include providing
information—

230.9.a

in a way that is unclear or untimely, or

230.9.b

in such a way that the consumer is unlikely to see it.

230.10

In this Chapter, “ invitation to purchase ” means a commercial practice
involving the provision of information to a consumer—

230.10.a

which indicates the characteristics of a product and its price, and

230.10.b

which enables, or purports to enable, the consumer to decide whether to
purchase the product or take another transactional decision in relation to the
product.

##### Public enforcement

###### Public enforcement

231

231.1

It is the duty of every local weights and measures authority in Great Britain
to enforce in its area the prohibitions in section  225 .

231.2

It is the duty of the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland to
enforce the prohibitions in section  225  in Northern Ireland.

231.3

The CMA may also enforce the provisions of this Chapter.

231.4

In exercising functions under this section, every local weights and measures
authority in Great Britain, the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland
and the CMA must have regard to the desirability of encouraging control of
unfair commercial practices by such established means as it considers
appropriate having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

231.5

Nothing in this section authorises a local weights and measures authority in
Great Britain to bring proceedings in Scotland for an offence.

##### Consumers’ rights of redress relating to unfair commercial practices

###### Rights of redress

232

232.1

A consumer has rights of redress under this Chapter if each of the following
four conditions is met.

232.2

The first condition is that—

232.2.a

the consumer enters into a contract with a trader under which the trader
supplies a product to the consumer (a “business-to-consumer contract”),

232.2.b

the consumer enters into a contract with a trader under which—

232.2.b.i

the consumer supplies a product to the trader, and

232.2.b.ii

the trader does not supply a product to the consumer (a “consumer-to-business
contract”), or

232.2.c

the consumer makes a payment to the trader for the supply of a product (a
“consumer payment”).

232.3

The second condition is that—

232.3.a

the trader engages in a prohibited practice in relation to the product, or

232.3.b

in a case where a consumer enters into a business-to-consumer contract for
goods or digital content—

232.3.b.i

a producer engages in a prohibited practice in relation to the goods or
digital content, and

232.3.b.ii

when the contract is entered into, the trader is aware of the commercial
practice that constitutes the prohibited practice or could reasonably be
expected to be aware of it.

232.4

The third condition is that the prohibited practice is a significant factor in
the consumer’s decision—

232.4.a

to enter into the contract mentioned in subsection  (2) (a)  or (b), or

232.4.b

to make the payment mentioned in subsection  (2) (c) .

232.5

The fourth condition is that the product concerned is not a product excluded
from the application of rights of redress by regulations under section  233 .

232.6

In subsection  (3) , “ producer ” means—

232.6.a

a manufacturer of the goods or digital content,

232.6.b

an importer of the goods or digital content into the United Kingdom, or

232.6.c

a person purporting to be such a manufacturer or importer by placing the
person’s name, trade mark or other distinctive sign on the goods or by using
it in connection with the digital content,

and includes a producer acting personally or through another person acting in
the producer’s name or on the producer’s behalf.

232.7

In this Chapter, “ prohibited practice ” means an unfair commercial practice
involving—

232.7.a

a misleading action, or

232.7.b

an aggressive practice.

232.8

For the purposes of  subsection (7) , section  225 (4) (a)  applies as if the
reference to a transactional decision were a reference to any decision taken
by a consumer to—

232.8.a

enter into a business-to-consumer contract,

232.8.b

enter into a consumer-to-business contract, or

232.8.c

make a consumer payment.

###### Rights of redress: further provision

233

233.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for any of the following
descriptions of rights to be exercisable by a consumer who has rights of
redress under this Chapter—

233.1.a

a right to unwind in respect of a relevant contract or consumer payment;

233.1.b

a right to a discount in respect of a supply of a product under a relevant
contract;

233.1.c

a right to damages in respect of financial loss, distress or physical
inconvenience or discomfort.

233.2

Regulations under this section may include provision—

233.2.a

about how a right is to be exercised by the consumer;

233.2.b

for an amount of discount mentioned in subsection  (1) (b)  to be determined
in accordance with the regulations;

233.2.c

about the circumstances in which damages mentioned in  subsection (1) (c)  are
or are not payable;

233.2.d

imposing conditions or restrictions on the exercise of a right;

233.2.e

about the consequences of the exercise of a right;

233.2.f

excluding products of a description specified in the regulations from the
application of the rights of redress available under this Chapter.

233.3

Provision under  subsection (2) (e)  about the consequences of the exercise of
a right may (among other things)—

233.3.a

provide for the termination of a relevant contract;

233.3.b

require the trader to make a refund of an amount determined in accordance with
the regulations;

233.3.c

require goods supplied under a relevant contract to be returned or for payment
to be made in respect of such goods.

233.4

In this section, “ relevant contract ” means—

233.4.a

a business-to-consumer contract;

233.4.b

a consumer-to-business contract.

233.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Enforcement of rights of redress

234

234.1

A consumer with a right to unwind, a right to a discount or a right to damages
by virtue of regulations under section  233  may bring a claim in civil
proceedings to enforce that right.

234.2

In Scotland, proceedings to enforce a right to unwind may be brought before
the Sheriff or the Court of Session.

234.3

If in proceedings under this section the consumer establishes that the
consumer has one of the rights mentioned in subsection  (1) , the court must
make an order that gives effect to—

234.3.a

that right, and

234.3.b

any associated obligations of the consumer imposed by regulations under
section  233 .

234.4

The Limitation Act 1980 applies to a claim under this section in England and
Wales as if it were an action founded on simple contract.

234.5

The Limitation (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1339 (N.I. 11))
applies to a claim under this section in Northern Ireland as if it were an
action founded on simple contract.

###### Relationship between rights of redress and other claims relating to prohibited practices

235

235.1

Nothing in this Chapter affects the ability of a consumer to make a claim
under a rule of law or equity, or under an enactment, in respect of conduct
constituting a prohibited practice.

235.2

But a consumer may not—

235.2.a

make a claim to be compensated under a rule of law or equity, or under an
enactment, in respect of such conduct if the consumer has been compensated in
respect of the conduct by virtue of regulations under section  233 , or

235.2.b

make a claim to be compensated under this Chapter in respect of such conduct
if the consumer has been compensated under a rule of law or equity, or under
an enactment, in respect of the conduct.

##### Inertia selling

###### Inertia selling

236

236.1

This section applies where a trader engages in the unfair commercial practice
described at paragraph  31  of  Schedule 20 .

236.2

The consumer is exempted from any obligation to pay for (or provide any other
consideration for) the products supplied by the trader.

236.3

In the case of a supply of goods that has not been requested, the consumer
may, as between the consumer and the trader, use, deal with or dispose of the
goods as if they were an unconditional gift to the consumer.

236.4

The absence of a response from a consumer following the supply of the product
does not constitute consent from the consumer to comply with the trader’s
demand for the consumer to—

236.4.a

pay for the product;

236.4.b

return the product;

236.4.c

safely store the product.

##### Offences relating to unfair commercial practices

###### Offences

237

237.1

A trader commits an offence if, in breach of section  225 (1) , the trader
engages in an unfair commercial practice which involves a misleading action
within section  226 (1) (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  (see section  225 (4) (a) (i) ).

237.2

A trader commits an offence if, in breach of section  225 (1) , the trader
engages in an unfair commercial practice which involves a misleading omission
(see section  225 (4) (a) (ii) ).

237.3

A trader commits an offence if, in breach of section  225 (1) , the trader
engages in an unfair commercial practice which involves an aggressive practice
(see section  225 (4) (a) (iii) ).

237.4

A trader commits an offence if, in breach of section  225 (1) —

237.4.a

the trader engages in an unfair commercial practice which involves a
contravention of the requirements of professional diligence (see section  225
(4) (a) (iv) ), and

237.4.b

the trader knows, or is reckless as to whether, the commercial practice
involves a contravention of the requirements of professional diligence.

237.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4)  a trader who fails to have regard to
whether a commercial practice involves a contravention of the requirements of
professional diligence is to be treated as being reckless as to whether it
does (regardless of whether the trader has reason to believe that it might).

237.6

A trader commits an offence if, in breach of section  225 (1) , the trader
engages in an unfair commercial practice by omitting material information from
an invitation to purchase (see section  225 (4) (b) ).

237.7

A trader commits an offence if, in breach of section  225 (1) , the trader
engages in a commercial practice which is unfair by virtue of it being of a
description listed in  Schedule 20  (see section  225 (4) (c) ) other than an
excluded description.

237.8

The following are excluded descriptions for the purposes of subsection  (7) —

237.8.a

the description of practice mentioned in paragraph  12  of  Schedule 20 ;

237.8.b

the descriptions of practices mentioned in  paragraph 13  of that Schedule;

237.8.c

the description of practice mentioned in paragraph  30  of that Schedule.

###### Defence of due diligence and innocent publication

238

238.1

It is a defence for a person (“ the defendant ”) charged with an offence under
subsection  (1) ,  (2) ,  (3) ,  (6)  or  (7)  of section  237  to prove—

238.1.a

that the commission of the offence was due to—

238.1.a.i

the act or omission of another person,

238.1.a.ii

reliance on information given by another person,

238.1.a.iii

a mistake or accident, or

238.1.a.iv

another cause beyond the defendant’s control, and

238.1.b

that the defendant took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
diligence to avoid the commission of such an offence by the defendant or any
other person under the defendant’s control.

238.2

Subsection  (3)  applies in a case where a person (“ the defendant ”) has been
charged with an offence under subsection (1), (2), (3), (6) or (7) of section
237  alleged to have been committed by the publication of an advertisement.

238.3

It is a defence for the defendant to prove that—

238.3.a

the defendant’s business is to publish or arrange for the publication of
advertisements,

238.3.b

the defendant received the advertisement for publication in the ordinary
course of business, and

238.3.c

the defendant did not know and had no reason to suspect that its publication
would amount to the offence with which the defendant is charged.

238.4

A defendant is not entitled to rely on the defence provided by subsection  (1)
by reason of the matters referred to in  paragraph (a) (i)  or  (a) (ii)  of
that subsection without the permission of the court unless—

238.4.a

the defendant has served on the prosecutor a notice in writing giving such
information as was then in the defendant’s possession identifying, or
assisting in the identification of, the other person, and

238.4.b

the notice is served on the prosecutor at least seven clear days before the
hearing of the proceedings or, in Scotland, at least seven clear days before
the trial diet.

238.5

In subsection  (3) , “advertisement”—

238.5.a

means anything published (in any form) for the purpose of promoting a product
to the public or a section of the public, and

238.5.b

includes a catalogue, a circular and a price list.

###### Offences: criminal liability of others

239

239.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply where a trader—

239.1.a

commits an offence under subsection (1), (2), (3), (6) or (7) of section  237
, or

239.1.b

would have committed an offence under that subsection but for a defence under
section  238 ,

and the commission of the offence, or of what would have been the offence, is
due to the act or omission of another person “P”.

239.2

P commits the offence (whether or not P is a trader and whether or not P’s act
or omission is a commercial practice).

239.3

P may be charged with and convicted of the offence by virtue of subsection
(2)  whether or not proceedings are taken against the trader.

239.4

In other provisions of this Chapter (including the rest of this section),
references to an offence under subsection (1), (2), (3), (6) or (7) of section
237  include references to an offence under that subsection by virtue of
subsection  (2) .

239.5

If an offence under section  237  committed by a body corporate is proved—

239.5.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body, or

239.5.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of an officer,

the officer as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

239.6

If the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, subsection  (5)
applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection with
the member’s functions of management as if the member were an officer of the
body corporate.

239.7

If an offence under section  237  committed by a Scottish partnership is
proved—

239.7.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or

239.7.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner as well as the partnership is guilty of the offence and liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

239.8

In other provisions of this Chapter, references to an offence under section
237  include references to an offence under that section by virtue of
subsection  (5)  or  (7) .

239.9

In subsection  (5)  a reference to an officer of a body corporate includes a
reference to—

239.9.a

a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, or

239.9.b

a person purporting to act as a director, manager, secretary or other similar
officer.

239.10

In subsection  (7) , a reference to a partner includes a person purporting to
act as a partner.

###### Penalty for offences

240

A person guilty of an offence under section  237  is liable—

240.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

240.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

240.c

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine (or both).

###### Time limit for prosecution

241

241.1

No proceedings for an offence under section  237  may be commenced after the
earlier of—

241.1.a

the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the date of the commission of
the offence, or

241.1.b

the end of the period of 1 year beginning with the date of discovery of the
offence by the prosecutor.

241.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (b) —

241.2.a

a certificate signed by or on behalf of the prosecutor and stating the date on
which the prosecutor discovered the offence is conclusive evidence of that
fact, and

241.2.b

a certificate stating that matter and purporting to be so signed is to be
treated as so signed unless the contrary is proved.

##### Miscellaneous

###### Powers to amend this Chapter

242

242.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  Schedule 20  (commercial
practices which are in all circumstances considered unfair) so as to—

242.1.a

add a description of a commercial practice;

242.1.b

remove a description of a commercial practice;

242.1.c

amend a description of a commercial practice.

242.2

If regulations under subsection  (1)  amend  Schedule 20  so as to add a
description of a commercial practice, the regulations must also amend section
237 (8)  so as to make that practice an excluded description of practice.

242.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend section  232 (7)  (rights of
redress: prohibited practices) so as to—

242.3.a

add further commercial practices that are unfair under this Chapter to the
list of prohibited practices;

242.3.b

remove from the list of prohibited practices any commercial practices that
have been added by regulations.

242.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend section  230 (2)  (material
information in respect of an invitation to purchase) so as to—

242.4.a

add descriptions of information;

242.4.b

modify descriptions of information;

242.4.c

remove descriptions of information added by regulations under this subsection.

242.5

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

242.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Crown application

243

243.1

Subject to subsection  (2) , this Chapter binds the Crown.

243.2

The Crown is not criminally liable as a result of anything in this Chapter.

243.3

Subsection  (2)  does not affect the application of any provision of this
Chapter in relation to persons in the public service of the Crown.

###### Validity of agreements

244

Except as resulting from a consumer’s rights of redress under this Chapter, a
contract or any other agreement is not void or unenforceable by reason only of
a breach of the prohibition in section  225 (1)  or  (2)  (prohibition of
unfair commercial practices or the promotion of unfair commercial practices).

##### Interpretation

###### Meaning of “transactional decision”

245

In this Chapter, “ transactional decision ” means any decision made by a
consumer relating to—

245.a

the purchase or supply of a product (including whether, how or on what terms
to make the purchase or supply);

245.b

the retention, disposal or withdrawal of a product (including whether, how or
on what terms to retain or dispose of it);

245.c

the exercise of contractual rights in relation to a product (including
whether, how or on what terms to exercise such rights).

###### Meaning of “average consumer”: general

246

246.1

This section provides for how references to the average consumer are to be
read for the purposes of this Chapter.

246.2

The average consumer is—

246.2.a

reasonably well informed,

246.2.b

reasonably observant, and

246.2.c

reasonably circumspect.

246.3

The average consumer is to be treated as not knowing information in relation
to a commercial practice where such information has been concealed by the
trader (even if the average consumer might know the information from another
source).

246.4

Where a commercial practice is directed at a particular group, the average
consumer is an average member of that group (and the attributes of the average
consumer in subsection  (2)  are to be read accordingly).

246.5

This section is subject to  section 247 .

###### Meaning of “average consumer”: vulnerable persons

247

247.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where a group of consumers is particularly vulnerable
to a commercial practice in a way that the trader could reasonably be expected
to foresee.

247.2

References in this Chapter to the average consumer, so far as relating to
cases to which this subsection applies, are to be read as references to an
average member of the group mentioned in subsection  (1)  (and the attributes
of the average consumer in  section 246 (2)  are to be read accordingly).

247.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , the reference to a group of consumers
being particularly vulnerable to a commercial practice—

247.3.a

is a reference to the members of the group being particularly vulnerable to
the commercial practice causing them to take a transactional decision that
they would not have taken otherwise, and

247.3.b

includes a reference to a group of consumers being vulnerable to a practice
because of the product to which it relates.

247.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , a group of consumers may be vulnerable
as a result of (among other things)—

247.4.a

their age;

247.4.b

their physical or mental health;

247.4.c

their credulity;

247.4.d

the circumstances they are in.

###### Meaning of “product”

248

248.1

In this Chapter, “ product ” means—

248.1.a

goods;

248.1.b

a service;

248.1.c

digital content.

248.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, a trader agreeing to the full or partial
settlement of a consumer’s liabilities or purported liabilities in return for
the consumer meeting a demand for payment is supplying a service.

###### General interpretation

249

In this Chapter—

      “ business ” includes—         a trade, craft or profession,
any other undertaking carried on for gain or reward, and           the
activities of any government department or local or public authority;
“ code of conduct ” means an agreement or set of rules which defines the
behaviour of traders who choose to be bound by it;           “ goods ”
includes—         immoveable property, and           rights and obligations,
but includes water, gas and electricity only if they are put up for sale in a
limited volume or set quantity;           “ supply ”, in relation to a
product, includes supply by means of sale, lease, hire or hire purchase.

###### Index of defined terms

250

In this Chapter, the expressions listed in the left-hand column have the
meaning given by, or are to be interpreted in accordance with, the provisions
listed in the right-hand column.

    Expression Provision   Aggressive practice Section  228   Average consumer
Sections  246  and  247   Business Section  249   Business-to-consumer
contract Section  232 (2) (a)   Code of conduct Section  249   Commercial
practice Section  225 (3)   Consumer Section  225 (3)   Consumer payment
Section  232 (2) (c)   Consumer-to-business contract Section  232 (2) (b)
Contravention of the requirements of professional diligence Section  229
Enactment Section  330   Goods Section  249   Invitation to purchase Section
230 (10)   Misleading action Section  226   Misleading omission Section  227
Product Section  248   Prohibited practice Section  232 (7)   Supply Section
249   Trader Section  225 (3)   Transactional decision Section  245   Unfair
commercial practice Section  225 (4)

##### Consequential amendments and transitional provision

###### Consequential amendments relating to this Chapter

251

251.1

The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277
) are revoked.

251.2

Schedule 21  contains further consequential amendments relating to this
Chapter.

###### Transitional and saving provision relating to this Chapter

252

252.1

This Chapter applies only in relation to an act or omission which takes place
on or after the commencement date.

252.2

The CPUTR 2008 continue to have effect in relation to any act or omission
which takes place before the commencement date.

252.3

In this section—

      “ the commencement date ” means—         for the purposes of the saving
by subsection  (2)  of Part 4A of the CPUTR 2008 (and other provisions of
those Regulations so far as relating to that Part), the date on which the
first regulations made under section  233  come into force;           for all
other purposes, the date on which section  225  comes into force;
“ CPUTR 2008 ” means the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 ).

#### Subscription contracts

##### Introduction

###### Overview

253

253.1

This Chapter—

253.1.a

imposes duties on traders in relation to subscription contracts,

253.1.b

provides rights for consumers if those duties are breached, and

253.1.c

provides rights for consumers to cancel subscription contracts during cooling-
off periods.

253.2

Sections  254  and  255  set out what is a “ subscription contract ” for the
purposes of this Chapter.

253.3

Sections  256  to  261  impose duties on traders in relation to subscription
contracts.

253.4

Sections  262  and  263  provide rights for consumers to cancel subscription
contracts if traders breach those duties.

253.5

Sections  264  to  266  provide rights for consumers to cancel subscription
contracts during cooling-off periods.

253.6

Section  267  confers powers to make further provision about the cancellation
of subscription contracts under this Chapter.

253.7

Sections  268  to  271  make provision for the offence of failing to provide
information about cooling-off rights.

253.8

Sections  272  to  281  contain miscellaneous provisions in relation to this
Chapter.

###### Meaning of “subscription contract”

254

254.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, a subscription contract is a contract
between a trader and a consumer—

254.1.a

for the supply of goods, services or digital content by the trader to the
consumer in exchange for payment by the consumer,

254.1.b

to which either or both of subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply, and

254.1.c

which is not an excluded contract (see section  255 ).

254.2

This subsection applies to a contract if it contains terms which have the
effect of providing—

254.2.a

for an automatically recurring, or continuing, supply of goods, services or
digital content to the consumer for an indefinite period or a fixed period,

254.2.b

for the consumer to automatically incur liability for each supply, or
recurring liabilities for the continuing supply, and

254.2.c

a right for the consumer to bring the contract to an end.

254.3

This subsection applies to a contract if it contains terms which have the
effect of providing—

254.3.a

for a supply of goods, services or digital content to a consumer free of
charge, or at a rate specified in the contract (the “original rate”), for a
period specified in the contract,

254.3.b

for the consumer to become automatically liable for payments, or payments at a
rate higher than the original rate, for supplies after that period (including
where the trader has an option to impose a charge or a higher charge after the
end of the period), and

254.3.c

a right for the consumer to bring the contract to an end before such liability
is incurred.

254.4

In this Chapter, references to a consumer’s right to bring a subscription
contract to an end are references to a right provided under the contract
which—

254.4.a

in the case of a contract for a fixed period, may be exercised to bring the
contract to an end before the end of the fixed period;

254.4.b

in any case, may be exercised without the consumer incurring any penalty which
is more than nominal,

and include references to a right that is expressed in terms of a right to
stop a subscription contract from automatically renewing or continuing or any
other similar expression.

###### Excluded contracts

255

255.1

A contract is an excluded contract for the purposes of this Chapter if, and to
the extent that, it is of a description set out in  Schedule 22 .

255.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  Schedule 22  so as to add,
remove or modify a description of a contract.

255.3

The power under subsection  (2)  includes power to provide for a contract to
be an excluded contract—

255.3.a

generally for the purposes of this Chapter, or

255.3.b

only for such purposes of this Chapter as are specified.

255.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

255.5

See  section 275 (4)  to  (8)  for how this Chapter applies in relation to a
contract that—

255.5.a

was an excluded contract at the time it was entered into, and

255.5.b

on subsequently ceasing to be an excluded contract, becomes a subscription
contract.

##### Duties of traders

###### Pre-contract information

256

256.1

Before a trader enters into a subscription contract with a consumer, the
trader must—

256.1.a

give to the consumer the information set out in  Part 1  of  Schedule 23
(“key pre-contract information”), and

256.1.b

give, or make available, to the consumer the information set out in  Part 2
of  Schedule 23  (“full pre-contract information”).

256.2

The duty imposed by subsection  (1)  must be carried out—

256.2.a

as close in time to entering into the contract as is practicable,

256.2.b

in accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) , and

256.2.c

in accordance with any other requirements specified in regulations under
section  277 (1) (a) .

256.3

Key pre-contract information must be given under subsection  (1) (a)  in
accordance with the following requirements—

256.3.a

it must all be given together;

256.3.b

it must be given separately from the full pre-contract information and any
other information;

256.3.c

in relation to a contract entered into in person, it must be given in writing
and on a durable medium;

256.3.d

in relation to a contract entered into online and remotely (but not orally),
it must be given in writing and in such a way that the consumer is not
required to take any steps to read the information, other than the steps the
consumer must take to enter into the contract;

256.3.e

in relation to a contract entered into orally and remotely, it must be given
orally.

256.4

Full pre-contract information must be given, or made available, under
subsection  (1) (b)  in accordance with the following requirements—

256.4.a

it must all be given, or made available, together;

256.4.b

in relation to a contract entered into in person, it must be given in writing
and on a durable medium.

256.5

The duty under subsection  (1) (b)  to give, or make available, full pre-
contract information applies in relation to the information set out in
paragraphs  14  to  28  of  Schedule 23  only to the extent that the
information is applicable to the contract and not already apparent from the
context.

256.6

For the purposes of this section, information is made available to a consumer
only if the consumer can reasonably be expected to—

256.6.a

know how to access it, and

256.6.b

be able to access it;

256.7

For the purposes of this Chapter—

256.7.a

references to a contract being entered into in person are references to it
being entered into in the simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the
consumer;

256.7.b

references to a contract being entered into remotely are references to it
being entered into without the simultaneous physical presence of the trader
and the consumer.

256.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Parts  1  and  2  of  Schedule
23  so as to add, modify or remove descriptions of information.

256.9

Regulations under subsection  (8)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Pre-contract information: additional requirements

257

257.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply in relation to a subscription contract
entered into online.

257.2

The trader must ensure that the final step which the consumer is required to
take to enter into the contract involves the consumer expressly acknowledging
that the contract imposes an obligation on the consumer to make payments to
the trader.

257.3

The trader must ensure that the information mentioned in subsection  (4)  is
given to a consumer—

257.3.a

in writing and in such a way that the consumer is not required to take any
steps to read the information, other than the steps the consumer must take to
enter into the contract, and

257.3.b

in accordance with any other requirement specified in regulations under
section  277 (1) (a) .

257.4

The information referred to in subsection  (3)  is—

257.4.a

whether there are any restrictions on the delivery of the product to be
supplied under the contract, and

257.4.b

which means of payment are accepted in relation to the product.

257.5

If the trader does not comply with subsection  (2) , the consumer is not bound
by the subscription contract.

257.6

Subsection  (7)  applies in relation to a subscription contract entered into
orally and remotely.

257.7

If a trader contacts the consumer, the trader must, from the outset, disclose—

257.7.a

the trader’s identity,

257.7.b

where applicable, the identity of the person on whose behalf the trader is
making contact, and

257.7.c

the commercial purpose of making contact with the consumer.

257.8

In cases where—

257.8.a

the contract has been entered into in person, and

257.8.b

the consumer has signed the contract,

the trader must give to the consumer a copy of the signed contract immediately
after the consumer has signed the contract.

257.9

In cases where full pre-contract information has not been given under section
256 (1) (b)  in writing on a durable medium before the contract is entered
into, the trader must give the consumer that information in writing on a
durable medium as soon as reasonably practicable after the contract has been
entered into and—

257.9.a

where goods are to be supplied under the contract, before the supply of any
goods;

257.9.b

where services are to be supplied under the contract, before the supply of any
service.

###### Reminder notices

258

258.1

Where a trader enters into a subscription contract with a consumer that does
not include a concessionary period, the trader must give to the consumer a
notice (referred to in this Chapter as a “reminder notice”) in respect of each
renewal payment that relates to the end of a relevant six-month period.

258.2

A “ relevant six-month period ” for the purposes of subsection  (1)  is—

258.2.a

the period of 6 months beginning with the day after the day on which the
contract was entered into, and

258.2.b

each subsequent period of 6 months beginning with the day after the day on
which the consumer last became liable for a renewal payment in respect of
which a reminder notice was required under subsection  (1) .

258.3

Where a trader enters into a subscription contract with a consumer that
includes a concessionary period, the trader must give to the consumer a
reminder notice in respect of—

258.3.a

the first renewal payment for which the consumer will become liable under the
contract, and

258.3.b

each subsequent renewal payment that relates to the end of a relevant six-
month period.

258.4

A “ relevant six-month period ” for the purposes of subsection  (3)  is each
period of 6 months beginning with the day after the day on which the consumer
last became liable for a renewal payment in respect of which a reminder notice
was required under subsection  (3) .

258.5

A renewal payment “relates” to the end of a relevant six-month period for the
purposes of subsections  (1)  and  (3)  if—

258.5.a

it is the last (or only) renewal payment for which the consumer becomes liable
during that period, or

258.5.b

in a case where the consumer does not become liable for any renewal payment
during that period, it is the first renewal payment for which the consumer
becomes liable after the end of that period.

258.6

For the purposes of this section a subscription contract includes a
concessionary period if it is a contract to which section  254 (3)  applies.

258.7

In this Chapter, a “ renewal payment ”, in relation to a subscription
contract, means a payment for which the consumer could avoid liability by
exercising a right to bring the contract to an end.

258.8

Section  259  contains further provision about—

258.8.a

the contents of reminder notices,

258.8.b

the times at which they must be given, and

258.8.c

how they must be given.

258.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for the requirements imposed
by this section and section  259 —

258.9.a

not to apply in relation to specified descriptions of traders or contracts;

258.9.b

to apply subject to modifications in relation to specified descriptions of
traders or contracts.

258.10

Regulations under subsection  (9)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Content and timing etc of reminder notices

259

259.1

A reminder notice must contain—

259.1.a

the information set out in  Part 3  of  Schedule 23 , and

259.1.b

any other information required by regulations under section  277 (1) (b) ,

and that information must be given to the consumer all together.

259.2

A reminder notice must be given—

259.2.a

in accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (8) ,

259.2.b

in such a way that the information referred to in  subsection (1)  is more
prominent than any other information given to the consumer at the same time,
and

259.2.c

in accordance with any other requirements specified in regulations under
section  277 (1) (a) .

259.3

A reminder notice must be given within the period specified by the trader for
the purposes of this section in the key pre-contract information given to the
consumer in relation to the contract (see  paragraph 10  of  Schedule 23 ).

259.4

A period specified in key pre-contract information for the purposes of this
section must be a period in advance of the last cancellation date which is
reasonable for the purposes of—

259.4.a

informing the consumer that they will soon become liable for the renewal
payment to which the notice relates, and

259.4.b

enabling the consumer to decide whether to bring the subscription contract to
an end before incurring that liability (and to take the necessary steps to do
so).

259.5

The “ last cancellation date ”, in relation to a reminder notice, means the
last day on which the consumer could avoid becoming liable for the renewal
payment to which the notice relates by exercising a right to bring the
contract to an end.

259.6

Where subsection  (7)  applies, in addition to giving a reminder notice in
accordance with subsection (3), an additional reminder notice must be given—

259.6.a

prior to the notice given in accordance with subsection (3), and

259.6.b

at a time which is reasonable for the purpose of providing additional
notification to the consumer that they will soon become liable for the renewal
payment to which the notice relates.

259.7

This subsection applies where—

259.7.a

the consumer will not become liable for a further renewal payment until after
the end of the 12-month period, or

259.7.b

the consumer will not become liable for any further renewal payment but the
contract continues beyond the end of the 12-month period.

259.8

In subsection  (7) , the “ 12-month period ” means the period of 12 months
beginning with the day before the day on which the consumer will become liable
for the renewal payment to which the reminder notice relates.

###### Arrangements for consumers to exercise right to end contract

260

260.1

A trader must make arrangements to enable a consumer to exercise a right to
bring a subscription contract to an end—

260.1.a

in a way which is straightforward, and

260.1.b

without having to take any steps which are not reasonably necessary for
bringing the contract to an end.

260.2

A consumer may, alternatively, exercise a right to bring a subscription
contract to an end by notifying the trader in accordance with subsection  (6)
that the consumer is bringing the contract to an end.

260.3

A consumer may exercise a right to bring a subscription contract to an end at
any time permitted by regulations under section  277 (1) (c) .

260.4

In relation to a subscription contract entered into online, arrangements under
subsection  (1)  must—

260.4.a

enable a consumer to bring the contract to an end online, and

260.4.b

ensure that instructions for doing so are displayed online in a place or
places that a consumer seeking to end the contract is likely to find them.

260.5

Arrangements under this section must comply with any other requirements
specified in regulations under section  277 (1) (c) .

260.6

A notification under subsection  (2)  may be given by the consumer making a
clear statement setting out their decision to bring the contract to an end.

###### Duties of trader on cancellation or end of subscription contract

261

261.1

This section applies where a consumer—

261.1.a

has exercised a right under this Chapter to cancel a subscription contract, or

261.1.b

has exercised a right to bring a subscription contract to an end.

261.2

The trader must—

261.2.a

give the consumer a notice acknowledging that fact (referred to in this
Chapter as an “end of contract notice”), and

261.2.b

if an overpayment has been received by the trader from the consumer, refund
that overpayment.

261.3

An end of contract notice must set out—

261.3.a

the date on which the contract was or will be cancelled or on which it came,
or will come, to an end, and

261.3.b

any other information required by regulations under section  277 (1) (b) .

261.4

An end of contract notice must be given—

261.4.a

in accordance with subsection  (5) ,

261.4.b

in writing on a durable medium, and

261.4.c

in accordance with any other requirements specified in regulations under
section  277 (1) (a) .

261.5

An end of contract notice must be given—

261.5.a

before the end of such period as may be specified in regulations under section
277 (1) (a) , or

261.5.b

if no such period is specified—

261.5.b.i

in the case of a consumer exercising a right mentioned in subsection  (1)  by
giving a notification online, before the end of the period of 24 hours from
the time that the consumer gives the notification;

261.5.b.ii

in a case where the consumer exercises such a right by giving a notification
in any other way, before the end of the period of 3 working days beginning
with the day after the day that the consumer gives that notification.

261.6

In subsection  (2) (b)  “ overpayment ”, in relation to a subscription
contract, means any payment made by the consumer for which the consumer is not
liable as a result of cancelling the subscription contract or bringing it to
an end.

##### Rights of consumers to cancel contract for breach

###### Terms implied into contracts

262

A trader’s compliance with the following duties is an implied term in every
subscription contract—

262.a

the duty set out in section  256 (1) (a)  (key pre-contract information);

262.b

the duty set out in section  256 (1) (b)  (full pre-contract information);

262.c

the duty set out in section  258  (reminder notices);

262.d

the duty set out in section  259 (4)  to specify in key pre-contract
information a reasonable period for the giving of a reminder notice under
section  259 (3)  (timing for the giving of reminder notices);

262.e

the duty set out in section  260 (1)  (arrangements for consumer to end
contract);

262.f

the duties set out in section  261 (2)  (end or cancellation of subscription
contract).

###### Right to cancel for breach of implied term

263

263.1

This section applies where a trader is in breach of the term implied into a
subscription contract by section  262 (a) ,  (c) ,  (d)  or  (e) .

263.2

The consumer has the right to cancel the contract.

263.3

The right is exercisable by the consumer notifying the trader in accordance
with subsection  (4)  that the consumer is cancelling the contract.

263.4

A notification under subsection  (3)  may be given by the consumer making a
clear statement setting out their decision to cancel the contract.

263.5

A subscription contract is cancelled from the time the notification is given.

263.6

Where a subscription contract is cancelled under this section—

263.6.a

the cancellation ends both the trader’s and the consumer’s obligations to
perform the contract in respect of any rights or liabilities that would arise
(but for the cancellation) after the time at which the contract was cancelled,

263.6.b

the consumer’s liability for payments that have arisen under the contract is
extinguished to any extent set out in regulations under section  267 (1) (b)
(and, accordingly, the consumer may be entitled to a refund), and

263.6.c

any other provision made under those regulations in relation to the treatment
of goods, services or digital content supplied under a cancelled subscription
contract applies.

263.7

No penalty or charge may be imposed on a consumer for cancelling a
subscription contract under subsection  (2) .

263.8

For further provision about the exercise of a right to cancel under this
section, see section  267 .

##### Cooling-off rights

###### Right to cancel during cooling-off periods

264

264.1

A consumer has the right to cancel a subscription contract during—

264.1.a

the initial cooling-off period, and

264.1.b

any renewal cooling-off period.

264.2

The right conferred by subsection  (1) —

264.2.a

is exercisable in any circumstances, and

264.2.b

may not be subject to any conditions other than those set out in or under this
Chapter.

264.3

The right is exercisable by the consumer notifying the trader in accordance
with subsection  (4)  that the consumer is cancelling the contract.

264.4

A notification under subsection  (3)  may be given by the consumer making a
clear statement setting out their decision to cancel the contract.

264.5

A subscription contract is cancelled from the time that such a notification is
given.

264.6

Where a subscription contract is cancelled under this section—

264.6.a

the cancellation ends both the consumer’s and the trader’s obligations to
perform the contract in respect of any rights or liabilities that would arise
(but for the cancellation) after the time at which the contract was cancelled,

264.6.b

the consumer’s liability for payments that have arisen under the contract is
extinguished to any extent set out in regulations under section  267 (1) (b)
(and, accordingly, the consumer may be entitled to a refund), and

264.6.c

any other provision made under those regulations in relation to the treatment
of goods, services or digital content supplied under a cancelled subscription
contract applies.

264.7

No penalty or charge may be imposed on a consumer for cancelling a
subscription contract under subsection  (1) .

264.8

For further provision about the exercise of a right to cancel under this
section, see section  267 .

###### Meaning of “initial cooling-off period” and “renewal cooling-off period”

265

265.1

In this Chapter, the “ initial cooling-off period ”, in relation to a
subscription contract, means the period—

265.1.a

beginning with the day the contract is entered into, and

265.1.b

ending—

265.1.b.i

in the case of a contract under which goods are supplied, at the end of the
period of 14 days beginning with the day after the day on which the consumer
receives the first supply of goods under the contract;

265.1.b.ii

in any other case, at the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day
after the day on which the contract is entered into.

265.2

In this Chapter, a “ renewal cooling-off period ”, in relation to a
subscription contract, means a period—

265.2.a

beginning with the day on which a relevant renewal of the contract occurs, and

265.2.b

ending at the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day after that
day.

265.3

A “relevant renewal” of a subscription contract occurs for the purposes of
subsection  (2) —

265.3.a

when the consumer becomes liable under the contract for a first renewal
payment following the end of a concessionary period, or

265.3.b

at any time when the consumer becomes liable under the contract for a renewal
payment and either—

265.3.b.i

the consumer will not become liable for the next renewal payment until after
the end of the 12-month period, or

265.3.b.ii

the consumer will not become liable for any further renewal payment but the
contract continues beyond the end of the 12-month period.

265.4

In subsection  (3) —

265.4.a

in paragraph (a), “ concessionary period ” means a period of time mentioned in
section  254 (3) (a) , and

265.4.b

in paragraph (b), the “ 12-month period ” means the period of 12 months
beginning with the day before the day on which the consumer became liable for
the renewal payment.

265.5

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (b) (i) , the first supply of goods under
a subscription contract is not to be treated as having taken place until such
time as the consumer receives all of the goods that the consumer is due to
receive as part of that supply.

265.6

This section is subject to such extensions of a cooling-off period as may be
provided for by regulations under section  267 (1)(c).

###### Cooling-off notice

266

266.1

In relation to each renewal cooling-off period, a trader must give the
consumer a notice (referred to in this Chapter as a “cooling-off notice”).

266.2

A cooling-off notice must set out—

266.2.a

that the subscription contract is continuing,

266.2.b

that the consumer has a right to cancel the subscription contract during the
cooling-off period to which the notice relates,

266.2.c

when that period begins and ends,

266.2.d

how the consumer may exercise the right to cancel,

266.2.e

if the consumer may lose the right, the circumstances under which that will
happen,

266.2.f

the consequences of the consumer exercising the right, including—

266.2.f.i

any refund the consumer may be entitled to,

266.2.f.ii

any reason that refund might be diminished, and

266.2.f.iii

in respect of a contract for the supply of goods, whether the consumer will be
responsible for returning those goods to the trader, and

266.2.g

any other information required by regulations under section  277 (1) (b) .

266.3

A cooling-off notice must be given—

266.3.a

on the first day of the renewal cooling-off period to which it relates or as
soon as reasonably practicable after that day,

266.3.b

separately from the giving of any other information, and

266.3.c

in accordance with any other requirements specified in regulations under
section  277 (1) (a) .

##### Cancellation of contracts under this Chapter: further provision

###### Cancellation of subscription contract: further provision

267

267.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

267.1.a

about the exercise of the rights of a consumer to cancel a subscription
contract under this Chapter;

267.1.b

about the consequences that follow a consumer exercising such rights;

267.1.c

extending a cooling-off period in such cases, and to such extent, as the
regulations may specify.

267.2

Regulations under subsection  (1) (a)  may include provision—

267.2.a

requiring a right to cancel to be exercised before the end of a specified
period;

267.2.b

imposing other conditions or restrictions on the exercise of a right to cancel
(for example, provision that a consumer may lose the right to cancel a
subscription contract during a cooling-off period if they choose to be
supplied with digital content or services under the contract during that
period).

267.3

Regulations under subsection  (1) (b)  may include provision—

267.3.a

setting out the extent to which a consumer’s liability for payments that have
arisen under a cancelled subscription contract is extinguished;

267.3.b

as a consequence of provision made under paragraph  (a) , requiring a trader
to refund a consumer for payments the consumer has made under the contract;

267.3.c

treating the consumer as having paid for goods, services or digital content
received under a cancelled subscription contract;

267.3.d

about the trader’s right to recover goods or digital content that have been
supplied under a cancelled subscription contract;

267.3.e

setting out the consequences of a consumer—

267.3.e.i

bringing a subscription contract to an end at a time when the consumer has one
or more rights to cancel the contract under this Chapter;

267.3.e.ii

cancelling a subscription contract at a time when the consumer has more than
one right to cancel the contract under this Chapter.

267.4

Provision under  subsection (3) (a)  and  (b)  may secure the result (for
example, in cases where a consumer has been supplied with digital content or
services under a contract before it is cancelled during a cooling-off period)
that—

267.4.a

the consumer remains liable (partly or fully) for payments falling due before
the cancellation of the contract, and

267.4.b

the consumer is entitled to a reduced or no refund.

267.5

Provision under subsection  (3) (e) (ii)  must secure the result that, unless
the consumer chooses otherwise, the consumer is to be taken to exercise the
right to cancel under this Chapter that results in the most advantageous
remedy to the consumer (and the regulations may include provision for
determining what remedy is “most advantageous” to a consumer in different
descriptions of case).

267.6

Before making regulations under subsection  (1) (c) , the Secretary of State
must consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

267.7

The following regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative
procedure—

267.7.a

the first regulations to be made under this section;

267.7.b

any other regulations under this section that include provision within
subsection (1) (c) .

267.8

Regulations under this section to which subsection  (7)  does not apply are
subject to the negative procedure.

##### Offence of failing to provide information about cooling-off rights

###### Offence of failing to provide information about initial cooling-off rights

268

268.1

A trader commits an offence if the trader—

268.1.a

enters into an off-premises subscription contract, and

268.1.b

fails to—

268.1.b.i

give the consumer the information listed in paragraph  11 (a)  of  Schedule 23
in accordance with section  256 (1) (a) , or

268.1.b.ii

give, or make available, the information set out in paragraph  21  of that
Schedule in accordance with section  256 (1) (b) .

268.2

Subsections  (3)  and  (4)  apply where a trader—

268.2.a

commits an offence under subsection  (1) , or

268.2.b

would have committed an offence under that subsection but for a defence under
section  269 ,

and the commission of the offence, or of what would have been the offence, is
due to the act or omission of another person (“ P ”).

268.3

P commits the offence (whether or not P is a trader).

268.4

P may be charged with and convicted of the offence by virtue of subsection
(3)  whether or not proceedings are taken against the trader.

268.5

In this section, an “ off-premises subscription contract ” means a
subscription contract—

268.5.a

entered into in person, in a place which is not the business premises of the
trader,

268.5.b

entered into by any means immediately after the consumer was individually and
personally addressed by the trader in person in a place which is not the
business premises of the trader, or

268.5.c

entered into during an excursion organised by the trader with the aim or
effect of promoting and selling goods or services to the consumer.

268.6

In subsection  (5) , “ business premises ”, in relation to a trader, means—

268.6.a

any immovable retail premises where the activity of the trader is carried out
on a permanent basis, or

268.6.b

any movable retail premises where the activity of the trader is carried out on
a usual basis.

268.7

In other provisions of this Chapter, references to an offence under subsection
(1)  include references to an offence under that subsection by virtue of
subsection  (3) .

###### Defence of due diligence

269

269.1

It is a defence for a person (“ the defendant ”) charged with an offence under
section  268 (1)  to prove—

269.1.a

that the commission of the offence was due to—

269.1.a.i

the act or omission of another person, or

269.1.a.ii

reliance on information given by another person, and

269.1.b

that the defendant took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
diligence to avoid the commission of such an offence by the defendant or any
other person under the defendant’s control.

269.2

A defendant is not entitled to rely on the defence provided by subsection  (1)
without the permission of the court unless—

269.2.a

the defendant has served on the prosecutor a notice in writing giving such
information as was then in the defendant’s possession identifying, or
assisting in the identification of, the other person, and

269.2.b

the notice is served on the prosecutor at least seven clear days before the
hearing of the proceedings or, in Scotland, at least seven clear days before
the trial diet.

###### Offences by officers of a body corporate etc

270

270.1

If an offence under section  268 (1)  committed by a body corporate is proved—

270.1.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body, or

270.1.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

270.2

In subsection  (1)  a reference to an officer of a body corporate includes a
reference to—

270.2.a

a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer;

270.2.b

a person purporting to act as a director, manager, secretary or other similar
officer.

270.3

If the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, subsection  (1)
applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection with
the member’s functions of management as if the member were an officer of the
body corporate.

270.4

Where an offence under section  268 (1)  committed by a Scottish partnership
is proved—

270.4.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or

270.4.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner as well as the partnership is guilty of the offence and liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

270.5

In subsection  (4) , a reference to a partner includes a person purporting to
act as a partner.

###### Penalty for offence and enforcement

271

271.1

A person who is guilty of an offence under section  268 (1)  is liable—

271.1.a

on summary conviction in England Wales, to a fine;

271.1.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
level 5 on the standard scale.

271.2

It is the duty of every local weights and measures authority in Great Britain
to enforce section  268 (1)  in its area.

271.3

It is the duty of the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland to
enforce section  268 (1)  in Northern Ireland.

271.4

No proceedings for an offence under section  268 (1)  may be instituted in
England and Wales except by or on behalf of a local weights and measures
authority in Great Britain.

271.5

Nothing in subsection  (2)  authorises any local weights and measures
authority in Great Britain to bring proceedings in Scotland for an offence.

##### General and miscellaneous provision

###### Information and notices: timing and burden of proof

272

272.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Chapter.

272.2

Where a trader gives any information or notice under this Chapter by email, by
a message sent online, or by any other means of electronic communication, the
information or notice is to be treated as given by the trader, and as received
by the consumer, at the time that the communication is sent to the consumer.

272.3

Subsection  (2)  applies even if the consumer does not receive the
communication where the reason for that is beyond the control of the trader.

272.4

Subsection  (5)  applies for the purposes of determining whether a consumer
has—

272.4.a

given notice that the consumer is cancelling a subscription contract in
exercise of a right conferred by this Chapter within the period of time
specified for the consumer to exercise the right;

272.4.b

given notice that the consumer is bringing a subscription contract to an end
within a period of time, or before a date, specified or described in the
contract as the period during which, or date before which, the consumer may
exercise the right.

272.5

The consumer is to be treated as having given notice within the required
period, or before the specified date, if the communication by which the notice
is given is sent before the end of that period or date (and for this purpose
it is immaterial whether or not the trader receives the notice).

272.6

The burden of proof lies with the trader in any dispute between the trader and
a consumer as to whether information or a notice has been given by the trader
to the consumer in accordance with this Chapter.

272.7

The burden of proof lies with the consumer in any dispute between the consumer
and a trader as to—

272.7.a

whether the consumer has notified the trader that the consumer is bringing to
an end, or cancelling, a subscription contract in accordance with this
Chapter;

272.7.b

when the consumer gave such notice.

272.8

Any information that a trader gives to a consumer under this Chapter must be
given in clear and plain language and

272.8.a

if given in writing, be in a legible form;

272.8.b

if given orally, be audible and comprehensible.

###### Terms of a subscription contract which are of no effect

273

273.1

Any term of a subscription contract that is in contravention of this Chapter
is, to that extent, of no effect (including any term that seeks to exclude or
restrict a trader’s liability arising from the terms implied into the contract
by section  262 ).

273.2

In cases to which this subsection applies, any term of a subscription contract
which seeks to impose on a consumer liability for a renewal payment before the
day on which the contract renews is, to that extent, of no effect.

273.3

Subsection  (2)  applies to cases of a description specified in regulations
under section  277 (1) (e)  (and the regulations may include provision for
determining when a contract renews in each description of case).

###### Other remedies for breach by trader

274

274.1

Nothing in this Chapter is to be taken as limiting the taking of any other
remedies available to a consumer for breach of any term (whether express,
implied by section  262  or otherwise) of a subscription contract.

274.2

Those other remedies may be sought—

274.2.a

in addition to the rights conferred on the consumer by this Chapter (but not
so as to recover twice for the same loss), or

274.2.b

instead of the exercise of any of those rights by the consumer.

274.3

Those other remedies include any of the following—

274.3.a

claiming damages;

274.3.b

seeking specific performance;

274.3.c

seeking an order for specific implement;

274.3.d

relying on the breach against a claim by the trader under the contract;

274.3.e

for breach of a term, exercising a right to treat the contract at an end.

###### Application of this Chapter

275

275.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

275.1.a

the law of a country or territory other than the United Kingdom or any part of
the United Kingdom is chosen by the parties to be applicable to a subscription
contract, but

275.1.b

the contract has a close connection with the United Kingdom.

275.2

This Chapter applies in relation to the contract despite that choice.

275.3

This Chapter does not apply in relation to contracts entered into before
section  254  comes into force.

275.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply where—

275.4.a

a trader enters into a contract that is an excluded contract,

275.4.b

but for it being an excluded contract, the contract would have been a
subscription contract, and

275.4.c

on a later day (the “relevant day”), the contract ceases to be an excluded
contract and, accordingly, becomes a subscription contract.

275.5

This Chapter applies to the contract with the following modifications—

275.5.a

sections  256  and  257  (pre-contract information) do not apply;

275.5.b

section  258  (reminder notices) applies as if—

275.5.b.i

in subsection  (1) , the reference to a trader entering into a subscription
contract with a consumer that does not involve a concessionary period were a
reference to a trader entering into the contract,

275.5.b.ii

the reference in subsection  (2) (a)  to the day that the contract was entered
into were a reference to the relevant day, and

275.5.b.iii

subsections  (3) ,  (4)  and  (6)  were omitted;

275.5.c

section  259  (content and timing etc of reminder notices) applies as if, in
subsections  (3)  and  (4) , references to the period specified by the trader
in pre-contract information were references to the period specified by the
trader in information given under subsection  (6)  of this section;

275.5.d

section  262  (terms implied into contracts) applies as if—

275.5.d.i

in paragraph  (a) , the reference to the duty set out in section  256 (1) (a)
were a reference to the duty set out in subsection  (6)  of this section;

275.5.d.ii

paragraph  (b)  was omitted;

275.5.d.iii

in paragraph  (d) , the reference to pre-contract information were a reference
to the information given under subsection  (6)  of this section;

275.5.e

section 264  (right to cancel during cooling-off periods) applies as if
subsection  (1) (a)  were omitted.

275.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant day, and in any event
before the end of 12 months beginning with that day, the trader must give to
the consumer key pre-contract information and full pre-contract information in
relation to the contract, other than any such information that is excluded by
subsection  (7) .

275.7

Information is excluded by this subsection if—

275.7.a

it relates to the initial cooling-off period under the contract;

275.7.b

it relates to a period mentioned in section  254 (3) (a)  (initial
concessionary period) and the relevant day falls after the end of that period.

275.8

For the purposes of the duty under subsection  (6) —

275.8.a

it is irrelevant whether any of the information required has already been
given to the consumer before the relevant day,

275.8.b

section  256 (5)  applies as it applies for the purposes of the duty under
section  256 (1) (b) , and

275.8.c

paragraph  13  of Schedule  23  is to be ignored.

###### Crown application

276

276.1

Subject to subsection  (2) , this Chapter binds the Crown.

276.2

The Crown is not criminally liable as a result of anything in this Chapter.

276.3

Subsection  (2)  does not affect the application of any provision of this
Chapter in relation to persons in the public service of the Crown.

###### Power to make further provision in connection with this Chapter

277

277.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

277.1.a

about how and when information or a notice that a trader is required to give
to a consumer under this Chapter may or must be given;

277.1.b

about the information that is to be contained in a notice given under this
Chapter;

277.1.c

about the arrangements that a trader must make under section  260  to enable a
consumer to exercise a right to bring a subscription contract to an end, and
about when a consumer may exercise such a right;

277.1.d

specifying the period of time within which the refund of an overpayment must
be made under section  261 (2) (b) ;

277.1.e

specifying descriptions of cases for the purposes of section  273 (2)  (and
about the day on which a contract renews for those purposes).

277.2

Regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  may include (among other things)
provision restricting the period of notice that a trader may require a
consumer to give to bring a subscription contract to an end.

277.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Consequential amendments

###### Consequential amendments to the Consumer Rights Act 2015

278

278.1

CRA 2015 is amended as follows.

278.2

In section 11 (goods to be as described)—

278.2.a

in subsection (4), after “( SI 2013/3134 )” insert  “, or in  paragraph 14  of
Schedule 23  to the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024,” ,
and

278.2.b

in subsection (5), after “effective” insert  “as a variation of a term implied
by subsection (4)” .

278.3

In section 12 (other pre-contract information included in contract)—

278.3.a

after subsection (2) insert—

278.3.a.2A

Where section  256 (1)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 (pre-contract information) required the trader to give information, or
make information available, to the consumer, any of that information that was
provided by the trader other than information about goods mentioned in
paragraph  14  of  Schedule 23  to that Act is to be treated as included as a
term of the contract.

, and

278.3.b

in subsection (3)—

278.3.b.i

for “that information” substitute  “the information that is to be treated as a
term of a contract under subsection (2) or (2A)” , and

278.3.b.ii

after “effective” insert  “as a variation of a term implied by subsection (2)
or (2A)” .

278.4

In section 36 (digital content to be as described)—

278.4.a

in subsection (3), after “( SI 2013/3134 )” insert  “, or in paragraph  14  or
27  of  Schedule 23  to the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024,” , and

278.4.b

in subsection (4), after “effective” insert  “as a variation of a term implied
by subsection (3)” .

278.5

In section 37 (other pre-contract information included in contract)—

278.5.a

after subsection (2) insert—

278.5.a.2A

Where section  256 (1)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 (pre-contract information) required the trader to give information, or
make information available, to the consumer, any of that information that was
provided by the trader other than information about digital content mentioned
in paragraph  14  or  27  of  Schedule 23  to that Act is to be treated as
included as a term of the contract.

;

278.5.b

in subsection (3)—

278.5.b.i

for “that information” substitute  “the information that is to be treated as a
term of a contract under subsection (2) or (2A)” , and

278.5.b.ii

after “effective” insert  “as a variation of a term implied by subsection (2)
or (2A)” .

278.6

In section 50 (information about the trader or service to be binding)—

278.6.a

in subsection (3), after “( SI 2013/3134 )” insert  “, or in accordance with
section  256 (1)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024,”
, and

278.6.b

in subsection (4), after “effective” insert  “as a variation of a term implied
by subsection (3)” .

278.7

In paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 (investigatory powers: enforcer’s
legislation), at the appropriate place insert—

      Section  271 (2)  and  (3)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024;

.

###### Other consequential amendments

279

279.1

In Schedule 3 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008, at the
appropriate place insert—

      Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024, Chapter 2 of Part
4.

.

279.2

In EA 2002—

279.2.a

in Schedule 14 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the appropriate
place insert—

      Chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

;

279.2.b

in Schedule 15 (enactments conferring functions) at the appropriate place
insert—

      Chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

279.3

The Consumer Contracts (Information Cancellation and Additional Charges)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/3134 ) is amended as follows.

279.4

In regulation 5 (other definitions), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ subscription contract ” has the meaning it has in  Chapter 2  of  Part
4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (see section
254  of that Act);

.

279.5

After regulation 7(4) (application of Part 2) insert—

279.5.4A

This Part does not apply to a subscription contract entered into after section
256  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 comes into
force.

279.6

After regulation 27(3) (application of Part 3) insert—

279.6.3A

This Part does not apply to a subscription contract entered into after section
264  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 comes into
force.

##### General interpretation

###### Interpretation

280

280.1

In this Chapter—

      “ business ” includes—         a trade, craft or profession,
any other undertaking carried on for gain or reward, and           the
activities of any government department or local or public authority;
“ consumer ” means an individual acting for purposes that are wholly or mainly
outside the individual’s business;           “ durable medium ” means paper,
email or any other medium that—         allows information to be addressed
personally to the consumer,           enables the consumer to store
information in a way accessible for future reference for a period that is long
enough for the purposes of the information, and           allows the unchanged
reproduction of information stored;                 “ goods ” includes—
immoveable property;           rights and obligations;           water, gas
and electricity if they are put up for sale in a limited volume or set
quantity;                 “ trader ” means a person (“ P ”) acting for
purposes relating to P’s business, whether acting personally or through
another person acting in P’s name or on P’s behalf.

280.2

In this Chapter—

280.2.a

references to a contract for the supply of goods, services or digital content
include references to a contract for the supply of any combination of goods,
services and digital content;

280.2.b

references to payment or to a consumer being charged are references to
payment, or a consumer being charged, in money or money’s worth;

280.2.c

references to something happening automatically under a subscription contract
are references to it happening without any action on the part of the consumer
to cause it to happen (ignoring the consumer’s action of entering into the
contract or any action taken in connection with, or for the purpose of,
entering into it);

280.2.d

references to something recurring are references to it happening more than
once;

280.2.e

references to a supply of goods, services or digital content for a fixed term
include references to a supply of goods, services or digital content which is
fixed to any extent;

280.2.f

references to a consumer entering into a subscription contract include
references to a consumer placing an order for the supply of goods, services or
digital content under a subscription contract in circumstances where—

280.2.f.i

the trader is (in any way) inviting such orders, and

280.2.f.ii

the consumer is not required to take any further action for the contract to be
concluded.

###### Index of defined expressions

281

In this Part, the expressions listed in the left-hand column have the meaning
given by, or are to be interpreted in accordance with, the provisions listed
in the right-hand column.

    Expression   Business Section  280 (1)   Consumer Section  280 (1)
Cooling-off notice Section  266 (1)   Digital content Section 330   Durable
medium Section  280 (1)   Excluded contract Section  255   Full pre-contract
information Section  256 (1) (b)   Goods Section  280 (1)   Initial cooling-
off period Section  265 (1)   Key pre-contract information Section  256 (1)
(a)   Reminder notice Section  258   Renewal cooling-off period Section  265
(2)   Renewal payment Section  258 (7)   Subscription contract Section  254
Trader Section  280 (1)   Working day Section 330

#### Consumer Savings Schemes

##### Meaning of “consumer savings scheme contract”

282

282.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, a consumer savings scheme contract is a
contract—

282.1.a

under which—

282.1.a.i

a consumer makes payments to a trader,

282.1.a.ii

the trader credits those payments to an account that is held by the trader for
the consumer (“the consumer’s account”), and

282.1.a.iii

the payments credited to the consumer’s account provide a fund for the
consumer to redeem as goods, services or digital content in accordance with
the terms of the contract,

282.1.b

to which one or more of subsections (2), (3) or (4) applies, and

282.1.c

which is not an excluded arrangement (see section  284 ).

282.2

This subsection applies to a contract if it contains terms which have the
effect of restricting the times at, or periods of time during, which the
consumer may redeem funds from the consumer’s account.

282.3

This subsection applies to a contract if it contains terms which have the
effect of incentivising the consumer to redeem, or refrain from redeeming,
funds in the consumer’s account at a time, or during a period of time,
specified in the terms of the contract.

282.4

This subsection applies to a contract if it is marketed or advertised in such
a way as to encourage the consumer to redeem, or refrain from redeeming, funds
in the consumer’s account at a time, or during a period of time, specified in
material used for the purposes of marketing or advertising the contract.

##### Other defined terms

283

283.1

In this Chapter, references to a trader operating a consumer savings scheme
are references to a trader entering into a consumer savings scheme contract.

283.2

For the purposes of  section 282 (1) (a) (ii) , it is sufficient for a trader
to hold the consumer’s payments in some way other than crediting those
payments to a specific account for that consumer and references in this
Chapter to a “consumer’s account” are to be construed accordingly.

283.3

In this Chapter, “protected payments” are payments, made by a consumer under a
consumer savings scheme contract, in respect of which funds in the consumer’s
account have not been redeemed.

283.4

Subject to  subsection (5) , in this Chapter, funds are treated as redeemed
when the trader provides the consumer with goods, services or digital content
in accordance with the terms of the consumer savings scheme contract.

283.5

Where a trader provides a consumer with vouchers or credit-tokens which may be
redeemed only in respect of goods, services or digital content provided by
that trader, funds are treated as redeemed for the purposes of this Chapter
only when those vouchers or credit-tokens are redeemed.

##### Excluded arrangements

284

284.1

An arrangement is an excluded arrangement for the purposes of this Chapter if
it is of a description set out in  Schedule 24 .

284.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  Schedule 24  so as to—

284.2.a

add a description of an arrangement to the Schedule;

284.2.b

remove a description of an arrangement from the Schedule;

284.2.c

modify a description of an arrangement set out in the Schedule.

284.3

The power under  subsection (2) (a)  and  (c)  includes power to provide for
an arrangement to be an excluded arrangement—

284.3.a

generally for the purposes of this Chapter;

284.3.b

only for such purposes of this Chapter as are specified.

284.4

Regulations under  subsection (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Insolvency protection requirement

285

285.1

A trader operating a consumer savings scheme must make and maintain the
arrangements set out in  section 286  (insurance arrangements) or in  section
287  (trust arrangements) to cover, in the event of the trader’s insolvency,
the cost of returning to the consumer any protected payments at the time of
the insolvency.

285.2

It is an implied term of every consumer savings scheme contract that the
trader complies with the requirements of this section.

285.3

A trader operating a consumer savings scheme in the United Kingdom, who is not
established in the United Kingdom, must comply with the requirements of this
section.

285.4

References in this Chapter to a trader’s insolvency are references to—

285.4.a

a bankruptcy order having been made in relation to the trader (or, in
Scotland, the trader’s estate having been sequestrated),

285.4.b

a winding up order having been made in relation to the trader as a result of
the trader’s insolvency,

285.4.c

an appointment of a liquidator (otherwise than following the making of a
winding up order) as a result of the trader’s insolvency,

285.4.d

the trader being in administration,

285.4.e

the appointment of an administrative receiver (or, in Scotland, a receiver) in
relation to the trader, or

285.4.f

in any jurisdiction, the trader being subject to an order or procedure that
corresponds to any order or procedure mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (e) .

##### Insurance arrangements

286

286.1

Where a trader relies on arrangements under this section for the purpose of
satisfying section  285 , the trader must maintain insurance under one or more
appropriate policies with an insurer authorised in respect of such business in
the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.

286.2

In this section “ appropriate policy ” means a policy—

286.2.a

under which the insurer agrees to indemnify consumers in the event of the
insolvency of the trader;

286.2.b

under which consumers are insured persons in respect of the costs referred to
in paragraph (d);

286.2.c

which does not contain a condition which provides (in whatever terms) that no
liability arises, or that any liability arising ceases—

286.2.c.i

in the event of some specified thing being done or omitted to be done after
the happening of the event giving rise to a claim under the policy;

286.2.c.ii

in the event of the policy holder not making payments under or in connection
with other policies; or

286.2.c.iii

unless the policy holder keeps specified records or makes available to, or
provides the insurer with, information from those records; and

286.2.d

which covers the costs of returning to the consumer any protected payments at
the time of the insolvency.

286.3

The trader must meet the costs of arranging and maintaining an appropriate
policy and any related charges or taxes, without recourse to the consumer
payments which are to be protected under that policy.

##### Trust arrangements

287

287.1

Where a trader relies on arrangements under this section for the purpose of
satisfying  section 285 , the trader must ensure that all payments made by a
consumer under a consumer savings scheme contract are held on trust for the
consumer, in the United Kingdom, by one or more persons appointed as trustees
for the consumer.

287.2

Subject to subsection (3), the monies are to be held on trust for the consumer
as required by subsection (1) until—

287.2.a

the funds in the consumer’s account have been redeemed, or

287.2.b

any payments made by the consumer in respect of the consumer savings scheme
contract have been returned to the consumer.

287.3

The trustees may authorise the use of monies held on trust for the consumer as
required by subsection (1)—

287.3.a

to pay suppliers for goods, services or digital content to be provided to the
consumer in accordance with the terms of the consumer savings scheme contract,

287.3.b

to return payments to the consumer in exceptional circumstances, or

287.3.c

to pay any profits after the consumer has redeemed all of the funds in their
account.

287.4

For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), trustees may only authorise the release
of monies on receipt of a declaration by the trader that the trader is
solvent.

287.5

The trustee, or where there is more than one trustee, the majority of persons
appointed as trustees for the purpose of subsection (1), must be independent
of the trader.

287.6

For the purpose of  subsection (5) , a person is independent of the trader in
relation to a trust only if—

287.6.a

the person has no interest in the assets of the trader or of the trust
otherwise than as a trustee of that trust, and

287.6.b

the person is neither connected with, nor an associate of—

287.6.b.i

the trader, or

287.6.b.ii

any person for the time being acting as an insolvency practitioner in relation
to the trader.

287.7

The cost of administering the trust must be paid for by the trader.

287.8

The trader must arrange for an independent auditor to be appointed to audit
the accounts of the trust every three years.

287.9

In the event of a trader’s insolvency, monies held on trust for a consumer by
the trustees in accordance with this section must be returned to the consumer.

##### Information requirements

288

288.1

A trader must, before the end of 30 working days beginning with the day on
which a consumer makes the first payment to the trader under a consumer
savings scheme contract, provide to the consumer the following information—

288.1.a

the name, address, telephone number and email address of the insurer or
trustees responsible for protecting the consumer’s payments;

288.1.b

where insurance arrangements are in place, the policy number for the policy
under which the consumer’s payments are protected;

288.1.c

where trust arrangements are in place, a copy of the trust deed under which
the consumer’s payments are held.

288.2

The trader must notify the consumer of any change to any of the information
provided under subsection (1) before the end of 30 working days, beginning
with the day on which the change takes effect.

288.3

Where a consumer makes a written request to the trader for the information
mentioned in subsection (1), the trader must, before the end of 30 working
days beginning with the day on which the request is received, provide, without
charge, the information requested.

288.4

The information provided under this section must be in clear and plain
language and, if in writing, in a legible form.

288.5

The information provided under this section must—

288.5.a

in cases where the contract is to be entered into in the simultaneous physical
presence of the trader and the consumer, be given in writing on a durable
medium;

288.5.b

in cases where the contract is to be entered into online without the
simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer—

288.5.b.i

be given in writing by being displayed in any location online where the
consumer may take steps to enter into the contract, and

288.5.b.ii

be accessible in that location without the need for any action by the
consumer;

288.5.c

in cases where the contract is to be entered into orally without the
simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer, be given to the
consumer orally and in a way that is audible and comprehensible.

288.6

In cases not falling within  subsection (5) (a)  the trader must also, as soon
as reasonably practicable after the contract has been entered into, give the
consumer the information in writing on a durable medium.

288.7

A trader operating a consumer savings scheme in the United Kingdom, who is not
established in the United Kingdom, must comply with the requirements of this
section.

288.8

It is an implied term of every consumer savings scheme contract that the
trader complies with the requirements of this section.

288.9

The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 3134/2013 ) apply to consumer savings scheme contracts
to the extent that requirements under those regulations are not met by
compliance with this section.

##### Consequential amendments

289

289.1

In Schedule 3 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (enactments
specified for the purposes of Part 1), at the appropriate place insert—

      “Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024,  Chapter 3  of
Part 4

.

289.2

In EA 2002—

289.2.a

in Schedule 14 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the appropriate
place insert—

      Chapter 3  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

;

289.2.b

in Schedule 15 (enactments conferring functions) at the appropriate place
insert—

      Chapter 3  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

##### Interpretation

290

In this Chapter—

      “ business ” includes—         a trade, craft or profession, and
any other undertaking carried on for gain or reward,         but does not
include the activities of any government department or local or public
authority;           “ consumer ” means an individual acting for purposes that
are wholly or mainly outside the individual’s business;           “ durable
medium ” means, in relation to the provision of information, paper, email or
any other medium that—         allows the information to be addressed
personally to the consumer,           enables the consumer to store the
information in a way accessible for future reference for a period that is long
enough for the purposes of the information, and           allows the unchanged
reproduction of the information stored;                 “ excluded arrangement
” is to be read in accordance with section  284 ;           “ goods ” includes
vouchers, rights and obligations but does not include buildings or other
structures or immovable property;           “ trader ” means a person (“ P ”)
acting for purposes relating to P’s business whether acting personally or
through another person acting in P’s name or on P’s behalf;           “
turnover ” has the same meaning as in  section 204  (determination of
turnover) and references to “this Part” in  section 204  are to be read, for
the purposes of this Chapter, as references to this Chapter.

#### Alternative dispute resolution for consumer contract disputes

##### Interpretation of 

###### Meaning of “ADR” and related terms

291

291.1

This section  has effect for the purposes of this Chapter.

291.2

“ ADR ” means any method of securing or facilitating an out-of-court
resolution of a consumer contract dispute that is carried out by an
independent third party acting in relation to both parties to the dispute.

291.3

But the term “ ADR ” does not include anything carried out by a person in
their capacity as—

291.3.a

a judge, or

291.3.b

a member of the staff of a court or tribunal.

291.4

The following are examples of ADR (if carried out as mentioned in  subsection
(2)  in relation to a consumer contract dispute)—

291.4.a

mediation;

291.4.b

arbitration;

291.4.c

early neutral evaluation;

291.4.d

action under an ombudsman scheme.

291.5

In  subsection (2)  “ resolution ” includes—

291.5.a

a decision binding both parties;

291.5.b

a decision which, if accepted by the consumer, binds the trader;

291.5.c

settlement of the dispute between the parties.

291.6

“ ADR provider ” means a person who does either or both of the following—

291.6.a

carrying out ADR in relation to a consumer contract dispute, or

291.6.b

making special ADR arrangements.

291.7

“Special ADR arrangements” are (subject to  subsection (8) ) arrangements made
by an ADR provider with another person (whether or not that other person is an
exempt or accredited ADR provider) for ADR to be carried out by that other
person in relation to one or more consumer contract disputes.

291.8

Arrangements made by a person acting for only one of the parties to a consumer
contract dispute are not special ADR arrangements.

291.9

For the meaning of “exempt ADR provider” and “exempt redress scheme” see
section 295 .

291.10

“ Accredited ADR provider ” means a person who is for the time being
accredited under this Chapter (whether or not their accreditation is limited
to particular descriptions of ADR or special ADR arrangements).

291.11

In  this section  “ judge ” includes—

291.11.a

a member of a tribunal,

291.11.b

a justice of the peace or, in Northern Ireland, a lay magistrate,

291.11.c

a clerk or other officer entitled to exercise the jurisdiction of a court or
tribunal, and

291.11.d

a holder of any other public office with functions of a judicial nature.

###### Other definitions

292

292.1

This section  has effect for the purposes of this Chapter.

292.2

“ Consumer contract ” means (subject to the following provisions of this
section) a contract between a trader and a consumer which is—

292.2.a

a contract to which Chapter 2 of Part 1 of CRA 2015 (contracts to supply
goods) applies;

292.2.b

a contract to which Chapter 3 of that Part (contracts to supply digital
content) applies;

292.2.c

a contract to which Chapter 4 of that Part (contracts to supply services)
applies;

292.2.d

a mixed contract, that is to say a contract to which any two or three of those
Chapters apply (see section 1(3) and (4) of that Act).

292.3

The reference in  subsection (2) (a)  to a contract to which Chapter 2 of Part
1 of CRA 2015 applies includes a reference to—

292.3.a

a contract between a gas supplier and a consumer for the supply of gas to any
premises;

292.3.b

a contract deemed by paragraph 8(1) or (2) of Schedule 2B to the Gas Act 1986,
or by section 12(1) or (2) of the Energy Act (Northern Ireland)  2011 (c. 6
(N.I.)) , to exist between a gas supplier and a consumer for the supply of gas
to any premises;

292.3.c

a contract between an electricity supplier and a consumer for the supply of
electricity to any premises;

292.3.d

a contract deemed to exist by paragraph 3(1) or (2) of Schedule 6 to the
Electricity Act 1989 or by paragraph 3(1) or (2) of Schedule 6 to the
Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I.1)) ;

292.3.e

the terms applying as between a water supplier and a consumer in respect of
the supply of water to any premises by a water supplier.

292.4

In subsection (3)—

      “ electricity supplier ” means a person who is authorised to supply
electricity by a licence or exemption under Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989
or Part 2 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992;           “ gas
supplier ” means a person who is authorised to supply gas by a licence or
exemption under Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 or Part 2 of the Gas (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I.2)) ;           “ water supplier ”
means—         a water undertaker or a water supply licensee within the
meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991,           a person supplying water
under a water services licence within the meaning of the Water Services etc.
(Scotland) Act  2005 (asp 3) , or           a water undertaker within the
meaning of the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 (
S.I. 2006/3336 (N.I.21)) .

292.5

The reference in  subsection (2) (c)  to a contract to which Chapter 4 of CRA
2015 applies includes a contract between a heat supplier and a consumer for
the supply of heating, cooling or hot water by means of thermal energy
provided from a heat network.

292.6

In  subsection (5) —

      “ heat network ” has the meaning given by section 216 of the Energy Act
2023, and           “ heat supplier ” means a person who charges for making a
supply of heating, cooling or hot water by means of thermal energy provided
from a heat network.

292.7

In the application of provisions of Part 1 of CRA 2015 for determining whether
a contract is a consumer contract for the purposes of this Chapter, the
following provisions are to be disregarded—

292.7.a

section 32(2) (provisions excluded from the operation of section 32(1));

292.7.b

section 48(5) (power to exclude services from scope of Chapter 4 of Part 1).

292.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that contracts of a
description specified in the regulations are excluded from being consumer
contracts for the purposes of this Chapter.

292.9

The power in subsection (8) includes power to provide that the exclusion only
applies in circumstances specified in the regulations.

292.10

Regulations under subsection (8) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

292.11

“ Consumer contract dispute ” means a dispute between the parties to a
consumer contract which relates to the contract, including a dispute
concerning—

292.11.a

anything done by either party before making the contract,

292.11.b

the making of the contract,

292.11.c

obligations under or relating to the contract, or

292.11.d

the performance by either party of their obligations under or relating to the
contract.

292.12

In  subsection (11)  “ dispute ” means a legal dispute, that is to say one
which may be determined by a court or tribunal in proceedings brought by
either of the parties to the contract.

292.13

The “parties” to a consumer contract, or a consumer contract dispute, are the
consumer and the trader.

292.14

The following terms have the meaning given by section 2 of CRA 2015—

      “consumer”           “goods”           “trader”.

But in interpreting the term “consumer” section 2(4) to (6) of that Act is to
be disregarded.

##### Prohibition on acting as ADR provider without accreditation etc

###### Prohibitions relating to acting as ADR provider

293

293.1

A person must not carry out ADR in relation to a consumer contract dispute
unless the person—

293.1.a

is an exempt ADR provider whose exemption covers the ADR being carried out,

293.1.b

is an accredited ADR provider whose accreditation covers the ADR being carried
out, or

293.1.c

is acting under special ADR arrangements made by—

293.1.c.i

an exempt ADR provider whose exemption covers the making of those special ADR
arrangements, or

293.1.c.ii

an accredited ADR provider whose accreditation covers the making of those
special ADR arrangements.

293.2

A person must not make special ADR arrangements in relation to any one or more
consumer contract disputes unless the person is—

293.2.a

an exempt ADR provider whose exemption covers the making of those special ADR
arrangements, or

293.2.b

an accredited ADR provider whose accreditation covers the making of those
special ADR arrangements.

###### Prohibitions relating to charging fees to consumers

294

294.1

An accredited ADR provider must not charge the consumer a fee in respect of
ADR being carried out (or to be carried out) in relation to a consumer
contract—

294.1.a

by the accredited ADR provider, or

294.1.b

by another ADR provider under special ADR arrangements made by the accredited
ADR provider,

unless the fee is charged in accordance with provisions for the charging of
fees to consumers which meet the conditions in subsection (2).

294.2

The conditions are that the provisions in question—

294.2.a

have been made by the accredited ADR provider,

294.2.b

are approved by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this subsection,
and

294.2.c

are published in a manner likely to come to the attention of consumers whose
consumer contract disputes may be dealt with by the accredited ADR provider.

294.3

An ADR provider who carries out (or is to carry out) ADR in relation to a
consumer contract dispute under special ADR arrangements must not charge the
consumer any fee in respect of carrying out the ADR in question.

##### Exempt ADR providers

###### Exempt ADR providers

295

295.1

In this Chapter—

      “ exempt ADR provider ” means a person who—         is listed (or of a
description of persons listed) in Part 1 of  Schedule 25 , or           is
(when carrying out ADR or making special ADR arrangements) acting under or for
the purposes of an exempt redress scheme;                 “ exempt redress
scheme ” means a scheme or other similar arrangement which is listed (or of a
description listed) in Part 2 of  Schedule 25 .

295.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  Schedule 25  for the purpose
of—

295.2.a

adding a new entry in Part 1 or 2;

295.2.b

varying or removing an entry for the time being included in Part 1 or 2;

295.2.c

varying the supplementary provision in Part 3.

295.3

Regulations under subsection (2) may, in particular—

295.3.a

provide for an entry in Part 1 of  Schedule 25  to apply to a specified person
or to any person of a specified description;

295.3.b

provide for an entry in Part 2 of that Schedule to apply to a specified scheme
or any scheme of a specified description;

295.3.c

limit the scope of the exemption given to a person by virtue of an entry in
Part 1 or 2 of that Schedule, whether in relation to carrying out ADR or
making special ADR arrangements (or both).

295.4

For the purposes of subsection (3)—

295.4.a

descriptions of ADR may be framed by reference to kinds of ADR or types of
dispute (or both), and

295.4.b

descriptions of special ADR arrangements may be framed by reference to any
features of such arrangements, including in particular the kinds of ADR
involved or the types of dispute involved (or both).

295.5

Subject to any limitation on its scope provided for by  Schedule 25 —

295.5.a

an exemption given to a person by virtue of an entry in Part 1 of that
Schedule covers anything done by the person in the exercise of the person’s
functions that would otherwise be prohibited, and

295.5.b

an exemption given to a person by virtue of an entry in Part 2 of that
Schedule covers anything done under or for the purposes of an exempted redress
scheme that would otherwise be prohibited.

295.6

In this section—

      “ prohibited ” means prohibited by section  293 (1) or (2);           “
specified ” means specified in the regulations.

295.7

Regulations under  subsection (2)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Accreditation: procedure etc

###### Applications for accreditation or variation of accreditation

296

296.1

A person who wishes to be an accredited ADR provider must—

296.1.a

apply to the Secretary of State for accreditation to enable the person to
carry out ADR or to make special ADR arrangements (or to do both), and

296.1.b

pay to the Secretary of State the appropriate application fee (if any)
prescribed by regulations under  section 300 .

296.2

An application for accreditation to carry out ADR may be limited to one or
more particular descriptions of ADR.

296.3

An application for accreditation to make special ADR arrangements may be
limited to one or more particular descriptions of special ADR arrangements.

296.4

An accredited ADR provider may apply to the Secretary of State for their
accreditation to be varied by the addition, variation or removal of—

296.4.a

any limitation affecting the descriptions of ADR or special ADR arrangements
(as the case may be) covered by the accreditation, or

296.4.b

any condition on the accreditation.

296.5

An application under subsection  (4)  must be accompanied by the appropriate
application fee (if any) prescribed by regulations under  section 300 .

296.6

The Secretary of State may determine the procedure to be followed in relation
to an application for accreditation or an application for the variation of an
accreditation.

296.7

The matters which may be determined under  subsection (6)  include (among
other things)—

296.7.a

the form in which applications are to be made;

296.7.b

the particular descriptions of ADR for which limited accreditation may be
applied for and granted;

296.7.c

the particular descriptions of special ADR arrangements for which limited
accreditation may be applied for and granted;

296.7.d

the information to be given by applicants.

296.8

Section 295 (4)  applies for the purposes of  subsection (7)  as it applies
for the purposes of  section 295 (3) .

296.9

The Secretary of State must publish anything determined under  subsection (6)
in a manner likely to come to the attention of potential applicants for
accreditation.

296.10

The powers of the Secretary of State under  subsection (6)  may be exercised
differently for different purposes.

###### Determination of applications for accreditation or variation of accreditation

297

297.1

This section  applies where an application for accreditation, or for the
variation of an accreditation, has been made to the Secretary of State (and
has not been withdrawn).

297.2

In the case of an application for accreditation, the Secretary of State must,
as soon as is reasonably practicable—

297.2.a

consider the application,

297.2.b

decide whether—

297.2.b.i

to grant the accreditation applied for,

297.2.b.ii

to grant a more limited accreditation, or

297.2.b.iii

to refuse the application, and

297.2.c

give notice in writing to the applicant of the decision and, in the case of a
decision mentioned in  paragraph (b) (ii)  or  (iii) , the reasons for the
decision.

297.3

Accreditation granted under  subsection (2) (b) (ii)  may be limited to such
descriptions of ADR or such descriptions of special ADR arrangements (or both)
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate and specifies in the
accreditation.

297.4

If accreditation is granted, the Secretary of State may also decide to impose
conditions on the accreditation.

297.5

The Secretary of State may only grant accreditation if satisfied that the
accreditation criteria will be met by or in relation to the applicant after
accreditation is granted.

297.6

An accreditation is not time limited unless—

297.6.a

the Secretary of State determines that it is to have effect for a limited
period, and

297.6.b

the notice of the decision on the application states that the accreditation is
time limited and specifies the period for which it has effect.

297.7

The notice of a decision to grant accreditation must specify the day on which
the accreditation takes effect.

297.8

In the case of an application for the variation of an accreditation, the
Secretary of State must, as soon as is reasonably practicable—

297.8.a

consider the application,

297.8.b

decide whether—

297.8.b.i

to grant the application,

297.8.b.ii

to vary the accreditation, but to a different extent than applied for, or

297.8.b.iii

to refuse the application, and

297.8.c

give notice in writing to the applicant of the decision and, in the case of a
decision mentioned in  paragraph (b) (ii)  or  (iii) , the reasons for the
decision.

297.9

If the Secretary of State decides to vary the accreditation under  subsection
(8) (b) (i)  or  (ii) , the Secretary of State may also decide—

297.9.a

to impose new conditions on the accreditation, or

297.9.b

to vary or remove any existing condition on the accreditation.

297.10

The Secretary of State may only vary an accreditation if satisfied that the
accreditation criteria will be met by or in relation to the applicant after
the accreditation is varied.

297.11

A variation of an accreditation is not time limited unless the Secretary of
State determines that the variation is to have effect only for a limited
period and the notice of the decision on the application for variation—

297.11.a

states that the variation is time limited (unless made permanent following a
subsequent application by the ADR provider),

297.11.b

specifies the period for which the variation has effect, and

297.11.c

makes provision as to the terms of the accreditation in the event that the
variation lapses at the end of that period.

297.12

The notice of a decision to vary an accreditation must specify the day on
which the variation takes effect.

297.13

Where the Secretary of State decides—

297.13.a

to impose conditions under  subsection (4) , or

297.13.b

to impose new conditions, or to remove or vary any existing condition on the
accreditation, under  subsection (9) ,

the notice of the decision on the relevant application must set out the
conditions on the accreditation or the accreditation as varied, and give the
Secretary of State’s reasons for the decisions made under  subsection (4)  or
(9)  (as the case may be).

297.14

Where an accreditation covers the making of special ADR arrangements,
conditions on the accreditation may be framed so as to secure that the
accredited ADR provider is responsible for acts or omissions of other ADR
providers who carry out ADR under special ADR arrangements made by the
accredited ADR provider.

###### Revocation or suspension of accreditations etc

298

298.1

This section  confers powers on the Secretary of State in relation to the
accreditation of an accredited ADR provider.

298.2

The Secretary of State may, by notice to the ADR provider, revoke the
accreditation on the application of the ADR provider.

298.3

Subsection (4)  applies in relation to the ADR provider where the Secretary of
State considers that any one or more of the following conditions are met—

298.3.a

the ADR provider is contravening, or has contravened, any of the prohibitions
in  section 293  and  294 ;

298.3.b

the ADR provider is failing, or has failed, to comply with any of the
accreditation criteria;

298.3.c

the ADR provider is failing, or has failed, to comply with any conditions on
its accreditation;

298.3.d

the ADR provider is failing, or has failed, to comply with an enforcement
notice under  section 302 .

298.4

The Secretary of State may by notice to the ADR provider—

298.4.a

vary the accreditation, by doing either or both of the following—

298.4.a.i

limiting, or further limiting, the accreditation to such descriptions of ADR
or such descriptions of special ADR arrangements (or both) as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate, and

298.4.a.ii

imposing new conditions on the accreditation, varying any existing condition
or removing any existing condition,

298.4.b

suspend the accreditation, or

298.4.c

revoke the accreditation.

298.5

In  subsection (4) (a) (i)  the reference to limiting (or further limiting)
the accreditation to particular descriptions of ADR or of special ADR
arrangements includes, in particular, limiting it to ADR relating to consumer
contract disputes that have already been referred for ADR or to special ADR
arrangements that already exist (as the case may be), whether for a limited
period or otherwise.

298.6

Before giving such a notice the Secretary of State must give the ADR provider
a reasonable opportunity to make representations as to—

298.6.a

whether one or more of the conditions mentioned in  subsection (3)  are met in
relation to the ADR provider, and

298.6.b

if so, what action (if any) it is appropriate for the Secretary of State to
take under  subsection (4) .

298.7

Any variations made under  subsection (4) (a)  must be variations the
Secretary of State considers necessary to secure compliance with the
prohibitions in  sections 293  and  294 , the accreditation criteria, the
existing conditions on the accreditation or the enforcement notice (as the
case may be).

298.8

In  subsection (7)  “ existing conditions ” means the existing conditions
disregarding any previous variations made under  subsection (4) (a)  or  (9)
(b) .

298.9

Where variations of the accreditation are made under  subsection (4) (a) , the
Secretary of State must—

298.9.a

keep those variations under review, and

298.9.b

by notice to the ADR provider vary the accreditation for the purpose of
revoking or reversing the effect of all or any of the variations, to the
extent that the Secretary of State considers that they are no longer necessary
for the purpose set out in  subsection (7) .

298.10

A notice that the accreditation is being varied must specify the day on which
the variations take effect.

298.11

A notice that the accreditation is suspended or revoked must specify the day
on which the accreditation ceases to be in force.

298.12

Where the accreditation is suspended the notice must also set out when or in
what circumstances the suspension is to cease to have effect so that the
accreditation is again in force.

298.13

The provision required by  subsection (12)  may consist of any one or more of
the following—

298.13.a

provision for the suspension to cease to have effect at the end of a period
specified in the notice,

298.13.b

provision for it to cease to have effect on the satisfaction of conditions
specified in the notice, and

298.13.c

provision for it to cease to have effect when a decision to lift it is made by
the Secretary of State and notified to the ADR provider.

###### Fees payable by accredited ADR providers

299

299.1

Accredited ADR providers must pay to the Secretary of State, at such times as
may be prescribed, the appropriate prescribed fee (if any).

299.2

In subsection  (1)  “ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations under
section 300 .

###### ADR fees regulations

300

300.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the following
descriptions of fees, namely—

300.1.a

fees to be paid by applicants for accreditation under section  296 (1) ;

300.1.b

fees to be paid by applicants for the variation of their accreditation under
section  296 (5) ;

300.1.c

fees to be paid by accredited ADR providers under section  299 (1) .

300.2

The power to make provision about a description of fees includes power to
provide—

300.2.a

for fees of different specified amounts to be payable in different cases or
circumstances;

300.2.b

for cases or circumstances in which no fees are to be payable;

300.2.c

in the case of fees to be paid under section  299 , the times at which the
fees are to be paid.

300.3

In making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must have
regard to the need to secure that, taking one year with another—

300.3.a

the total amount of fees paid does not exceed the costs to the Secretary of
State of carrying out functions under this Chapter;

300.3.b

the total amount of fees paid under section  296 (1)  does not exceed the
costs to the Secretary of State of processing and determining applications for
accreditation;

300.3.c

the total amount of fees paid under section  296 (5)  does not exceed the
costs to the Secretary of State of processing and determining applications for
the variation of an accreditation.

300.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Accreditation criteria

301

301.1

For the purposes of this Chapter the accreditation criteria are the criteria
set out in  Schedule 26 .

301.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  Schedule 26  for the purpose
of—

301.2.a

adding a new criterion, or

301.2.b

removing or varying any criterion for the time being set out in that Schedule.

301.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Enforcement of prohibitions etc

###### Enforcement notices

302

302.1

The Secretary of State may give an enforcement notice to an ADR provider if
satisfied that the provider is contravening, or has contravened, any one or
more of the following—

302.1.a

the prohibition in  section 293 (1)  or  (2) ;

302.1.b

the prohibition in  section 294 (1)  or  (3) ;

302.1.c

a condition on its accreditation;

302.1.d

the duty to pay a fee due under  section 299 (1) ;

302.1.e

a duty imposed by regulations under  section 303 ;

302.1.f

a duty imposed by a direction under  section 304 .

302.2

Before reaching a final view as to whether or not to give an enforcement
notice to an ADR provider, the Secretary of State must give the provider a
reasonable opportunity to make representations as to—

302.2.a

whether the condition in  subsection (1)  is met, and

302.2.b

if so, whether an enforcement notice should be given to it.

302.3

An enforcement notice is a notice requiring the ADR provider in question to
do, or not to do, such things as are specified in the notice or are of a
description so specified, with a view to securing compliance with the
prohibition, condition or duty in question.

302.4

An enforcement notice may—

302.4.a

include requirements for the ADR provider to give information to the Secretary
of State, or

302.4.b

include other supplementary, incidental or consequential provision.

302.5

The notice must make clear, in particular—

302.5.a

what requirements are being imposed by the notice, and

302.5.b

when they are to be complied with (whether immediately or otherwise).

302.6

The Secretary of State may, by notice to the ADR provider to whom an
enforcement notice has been given—

302.6.a

revoke the enforcement notice, or

302.6.b

revoke any requirement contained in the notice and, if necessary, make any
consequential changes to the other provisions of the notice.

302.7

The power under  subsection (6)  may be exercised on the application of the
ADR provider or otherwise.

302.8

An enforcement notice may, with the permission of the High Court or the Court
of Session, be enforced as if it were an order made by that court.

302.9

The Secretary of State may publish information about enforcement notices given
under  this section .

##### Provision of Information etc

###### ADR information regulations

303

303.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations require persons of a specified
description (being persons within  subsection (2) )—

303.1.a

to provide ADR information to the Secretary of State;

303.1.b

to provide ADR information to a person with functions conferred by regulations
under  section 307 ;

303.1.c

to provide ADR information to consumers by publishing it.

303.2

Regulations under this section may impose requirements on—

303.2.a

accredited ADR providers,

303.2.b

exempt ADR providers,

303.2.c

persons (not being accredited or exempt ADR providers) who carry out ADR under
special ADR arrangements,

303.2.d

persons who have been, but are no longer, within paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or
(c) ,

303.2.e

regulators, but only in relation to relevant ADR information (see  section 306
(2) ).

303.3

The power to impose requirements under subsection (1)(a) or (b) may only be
exercised for the purpose of enabling or facilitating one or more of the
following—

303.3.a

publication of ADR information for the benefit of consumers;

303.3.b

monitoring or evaluation of the operation of the system of accreditation under
this Chapter;

303.3.c

monitoring or evaluation of the provision and quality of ADR carried out in
the United Kingdom.

303.4

It is immaterial for the purposes of subsection (3) whether the publication,
monitoring or evaluation is carried out by the Secretary of State, by a person
with functions conferred by regulations under section  307  or by any other
person acting under arrangements made with that other person by the Secretary
of State or a person with such functions.

303.5

Regulations under this section may provide for—

303.5.a

the ADR information to be provided or published;

303.5.b

the manner in which it is to be provided or published;

303.5.c

the intervals or times at which it is to be provided or published;

303.5.d

time limits for providing or publishing it.

303.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

###### ADR information directions

304

304.1

The Secretary of State may give a direction to any person falling within
subsection (2)  requiring the person to provide ADR information to the
Secretary of State.

304.2

A direction may be given to—

304.2.a

an accredited ADR provider,

304.2.b

an exempt ADR provider,

304.2.c

a person (not being an accredited or exempt ADR provider) who carries out ADR
under special ADR arrangements,

304.2.d

a person who has been an accredited or exempt ADR provider or a person
mentioned in  paragraph (c) , or

304.2.e

a regulator, but only in relation to relevant ADR information (see  section
306 (2) ).

304.3

A direction may only be given—

304.3.a

for the purpose of enabling or facilitating one or more of the following
(whether done by the Secretary of State or by another person under
arrangements made with the Secretary of State)—

304.3.a.i

publication of ADR information for the benefit of consumers;

304.3.a.ii

monitoring or evaluation of the operation of the system of accreditation under
this Chapter;

304.3.a.iii

monitoring or evaluation of the provision and quality of ADR carried out in
the United Kingdom, or

304.3.b

for any other purpose connected with the exercise of the Secretary of State’s
functions under this Chapter.

304.4

A direction may provide for—

304.4.a

the ADR information to be provided;

304.4.b

the manner in which it is to be provided;

304.4.c

time limits for providing it.

304.5

A person to whom a direction is given must so far as reasonably practicable
comply with it.

304.6

The duty to comply with a direction is enforceable by the Secretary of State
in civil proceedings—

304.6.a

for an injunction,

304.6.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

304.6.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

304.7

In this section “ direction ” means a direction under this section.

###### Disclosure of ADR information by the Secretary of State

305

305.1

This section applies to any ADR information relating to ADR providers which—

305.1.a

is provided to the Secretary of State in response to regulations under
section 303  or a direction under  section 304 , or

305.1.b

is otherwise held by the Secretary of State for the purposes of any function
of the Secretary of State under this Chapter.

305.2

The Secretary of State may publish information to which this section applies
for the purpose of providing information to consumers.

305.3

The Secretary of State may disclose information to which this section applies—

305.3.a

to any Minister of the Crown, government department or devolved authority;

305.3.b

to a regulator;

305.3.c

to a public designated enforcer (see  section 151 ).

305.4

This section does not affect any power to disclose information apart from this
section.

305.5

In this section “ devolved authority ” means the Welsh Ministers, the Scottish
Ministers or a Northern Ireland Department.

###### Meaning of “ADR information” and other terms in 

306

306.1

In  sections 303  to  305  “ ADR information ” means any information about or
relating to—

306.1.a

an ADR provider,

306.1.b

ADR carried out by an ADR provider,

306.1.c

special ADR arrangements made by an ADR provider.

306.2

In those sections “ relevant ADR information ”, in relation to requirements
imposed on a regulator, means any information about or relating to—

306.2.a

ADR carried out by a relevant ADR provider,

306.2.b

special ADR arrangements made by a relevant ADR provider,

306.2.c

ADR carried out by ADR providers acting under special ADR arrangements made by
a relevant ADR provider, or

306.2.d

anything done by the regulator which directly or indirectly affects a relevant
ADR provider so far as relating to anything falling within  paragraphs (a)  to
(c) .

306.3

In  subsection (2)  “ relevant ADR provider ”, in relation to a regulator,
means an accredited or exempt ADR provider—

306.3.a

who is subject to regulation by the regulator, or

306.3.b

whose activities (as an ADR provider) relate to consumer contract disputes
involving traders acting in an area for which the regulator has responsibility
or oversight under any legislation.

306.4

In  this section —

306.4.a

a reference to information about ADR carried out by an ADR provider includes,
in the case of ADR carried out by an accredited or exempt ADR provider,
information about fees charged to consumers or traders in respect of carrying
out ADR, and

306.4.b

a reference to information about special ADR arrangements includes information
about fees charged to consumers or traders by the ADR provider who made the
arrangements.

306.5

In  this section  references to ADR carried out by an ADR provider include ADR
to be carried out by the provider.

306.6

In  this section  and  sections 303  to  305 , “ regulator ” means a person
who has responsibility for, or oversight of, an area of activity by virtue of
any legislation.

##### Involvement of other bodies in the regulation of ADR providers

###### Power to provide for other persons to have accreditation functions etc

307

307.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for or in connection
with the conferring on another person of any function falling within
subsection (2)  so far as it is exercisable in such cases or circumstances as
may be prescribed by the regulations, in place of the corresponding function
of the Secretary of State.

307.2

The functions which may be the subject of regulations under this section are
functions corresponding to functions of the Secretary of State under the
following provisions of this Chapter as originally enacted—

      section 294 (2) (b)  (function of approving fees provisions);
section 296  (functions relating to applications for accreditation or
variation of an accreditation);           section 297  (functions relating to
determination of applications);           section 298  (functions relating to
revocation or suspension of accreditations etc);           section 299 (1)
(fees payable by accredited ADR providers), so far as relating to the function
of receiving fees;           section 302  (functions relating to enforcement
notices);           section 304  (functions relating to ADR information
directions);           section 305  (functions relating to disclosure of ADR
information).

307.3

The powers conferred by  subsection (1)  include power to make provision for
or in connection with—

307.3.a

sharing of information between any two or more relevant authorities;

307.3.b

abolishing (in whole or part) a function conferred on a person by regulations
under this section.

307.4

In  subsection (3) (a)  “ relevant authorities ” means the Secretary of State
and any persons with functions conferred by regulations under  this section .

307.5

Regulations under  this section  may amend this Chapter.

307.6

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Complaints by consumers to traders

###### Duty of trader to notify consumer of ADR arrangements etc

308

308.1

This section  applies where a trader responds to a complaint from a consumer
in respect of any matters relating to a consumer contract between them.

308.2

In  subsection (1)  “matters relating to a consumer contract” include anything
concerning—

308.2.a

the making of the contract,

308.2.b

anything done by the trader before or after making the contract,

308.2.c

any obligations of the trader under or relating to the contract, or

308.2.d

the performance by the trader of its obligations under or relating to the
contract.

308.3

The trader must, when communicating the outcome of the trader’s consideration
of the complaint to the consumer, also inform the consumer about any ADR or
other arrangement that is available if the consumer is dissatisfied with the
outcome.

308.4

In  subsection (3)  “ ADR or other arrangement ” means a scheme or
arrangement—

308.4.a

that is available to the consumer by virtue of an obligation of the trader to
participate in the scheme or arrangement imposed by—

308.4.a.i

legislation,

308.4.a.ii

terms of the consumer contract, or

308.4.a.iii

other contractual arrangements to which the trader is party, and

308.4.b

by virtue of which either or both of the following will happen if the
complaint (or any part of it) is duly pursued by the consumer—

308.4.b.i

ADR will be carried out (if or so far as the matters complained of involve a
consumer contract dispute between the parties);

308.4.b.ii

other action will be taken with a view to securing or facilitating a
resolution (if or so far as the matters complained of do not involve a
consumer contract dispute between the parties).

308.5

Section 302  (enforcement notices) applies in relation to a trader who is
contravening or has contravened the duty under  subsection (3)  as it applies
in relation to an ADR provider who is contravening or has contravened anything
mentioned in  section 302 (1) .

308.6

This section does not affect any other duty of a trader to give information to
a consumer.

##### Consequential amendments etc and transitional provision

###### Consequential amendments etc relating to this Chapter

309

Schedule 27  contains consequential amendments, repeals and revocations
relating to this Chapter.

###### Transitional provision relating to this Chapter

310

310.1

The prohibition on carrying out ADR in  section 293 (1)  does not apply to ADR
carried out by an ADR provider in relation to a consumer contract dispute
where the ADR started before the prohibition came into force.

310.2

The prohibition on charging fees to consumers in  section 294 (1)  does not
apply to ADR carried out by an ADR provider in relation to a consumer contract
dispute where the ADR started before the prohibition came into force.

310.3

For the purposes of  subsections (1)  and  (2) , the ADR is to be taken as
starting when the dispute was first referred to the ADR provider in accordance
with that provider’s rules or procedures.

310.4

The prohibition on charging fees to consumers in  section 294 (3)  does not
apply to ADR carried out by an ADR provider under special ADR arrangements
where the ADR started before the prohibition came into force.

310.5

Subsection (2)  of  section 293  applies, in the case of any special ADR
arrangements made by an ADR provider before that subsection comes into force,
as if the prohibition in it were a prohibition against the person who made the
arrangements continuing to operate them, unless that person—

310.5.a

is an exempt ADR provider whose exemption would cover making the special ADR
arrangements, or

310.5.b

is an accredited ADR provider whose accreditation would cover making the
special ADR arrangements.

310.6

But  subsection (5)  does not prevent the person from continuing to operate
the special ADR arrangements so far as relating to cases in which ADR which is
being carried out in relation to a consumer contract dispute started before
the prohibition in  section 293 (1)  came into force.

310.7

For the purposes of subsections  (4)  and  (6)  ADR is to be taken as starting
when the dispute is referred—

310.7.a

to the person who made the special ADR arrangements in accordance with the
person’s rules or procedures, or

310.7.b

to the person carrying out the ADR under the special ADR arrangements, in
accordance with the person’s rules or procedures,

whichever occurs first.

310.8

The duty in  section 308 (3)  does not apply in relation to a consumer’s
complaint if it was received by the trader before the coming into force of
section 308 .

### Miscellaneous

#### Competition in connection with motor fuel

##### Provision of information about competition in connection with motor fuel

311

311.1

The CMA may require an undertaking involved in, or connected with, the
distribution, supply or retail of motor fuel (“ U ”) to give specified
information to it where it considers that the information would assist the CMA
in—

311.1.a

assessing competition in the United Kingdom in connection with the retail of
motor fuel;

311.1.b

publishing information about competition in the United Kingdom in connection
with the retail of motor fuel;

311.1.c

making proposals, or giving information or advice, to the Secretary of State
about the need for, or the potential for, action to be taken (whether by the
Secretary of State or another person) and what that action should be for the
purposes of—

311.1.c.i

increasing competition in the United Kingdom in connection with the retail of
motor fuel;

311.1.c.ii

benefiting consumers of motor fuel;

311.1.d

assessing the effectiveness of any action taken as a result of proposals made,
or information or advice given, under  paragraph (c) .

311.2

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  is to be exercised by giving U a
notice (an “information notice”).

311.3

The CMA must include in an information notice—

311.3.a

the time at which, or the frequency with which, the information must be given
to the CMA;

311.3.b

the manner and form in which the information must be given to the CMA;

311.3.c

information about the possible consequences of not complying with the notice.

311.4

The power under this section to require U to give information to the CMA
includes the power to—

311.4.a

require U to take copies of or extracts from information;

311.4.b

require U to obtain or generate information;

311.4.c

require U to collect or retain information that they would not otherwise
collect or retain;

311.4.d

if any specified information is not given to the CMA, require U to state, to
the best of their knowledge and belief, both where that information is and why
it has not been given to the CMA.

311.5

An undertaking may not be required under this section to give the CMA a
privileged communication.

311.6

A “privileged communication” is a communication—

311.6.a

between a professional legal adviser and their client, or

311.6.b

made in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal proceedings,

which in proceedings in the High Court would be protected from disclosure on
grounds of legal professional privilege.

311.7

In the application of this section to Scotland—

311.7.a

the reference to the High Court is to be read as a reference to the Court of
Session, and

311.7.b

the reference to legal professional privilege is to be read as a reference to
the confidentiality of communications.

311.8

In this section—

      “ consumer ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of EA 2002 (see section
183(1) of that Act);           “ motor fuel ” has the same meaning as in the
Motor Fuel (Composition and Content) Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/3107 ) (see
regulation 2 of those Regulations), but as if paragraphs (c) and (d) of the
definition of that term were omitted;           “ specified ” means—
specified, or described, in the information notice, or           falling
within a category which is specified, or described, in the information notice;
“ United Kingdom ” includes a part of the United Kingdom.

311.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definition of “motor fuel”
in  subsection (8) .

311.10

Regulations under  subsection (9)  are subject to the negative procedure.

311.11

In this Chapter, “undertaking” has the same meaning it has for the purposes of
Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition: agreements, abuse of dominant position etc).

##### Penalties for failure to comply with notices under 

312

312.1

The CMA may impose a penalty on an undertaking where it considers that the
undertaking has, without reasonable excuse—

312.1.a

failed to comply with an information notice under  section 311 ;

312.1.b

destroyed, otherwise disposed of, falsified or concealed, or caused or
permitted the destruction, disposal, falsification or concealment of, any
document which the undertaking has been required to produce by an information
notice under that section;

312.1.c

given the CMA information which is false or misleading in a material
particular in connection with an information notice under that section;

312.1.d

given information which is false or misleading in a material particular to
another undertaking knowing that the information was to be used for the
purpose of giving information to the CMA in connection with an information
notice under that section.

312.2

The amount of a penalty imposed on an undertaking under this section may be
such amount as the CMA considers appropriate, provided it does not exceed the
amounts set out in subsection  (4) .

312.3

The amount of a penalty under this section must be—

312.3.a

a fixed amount,

312.3.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

312.3.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

312.4

The maximum amounts of a penalty that may be imposed on an undertaking are—

312.4.a

in the case of a fixed amount, an amount equal to 1% of the total value of the
undertaking’s turnover (both inside and outside the United Kingdom);

312.4.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
an amount equal to 5% of the total value of the undertaking’s daily turnover
(both inside and outside the United Kingdom);

312.4.c

in the case of a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, the amounts mentioned in  paragraph (a) , in
relation to the fixed amount, and  paragraph (b) , in relation to the amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate.

312.5

In imposing a penalty under this section by reference to a daily rate—

312.5.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the service on the undertaking
concerned of the provisional penalty notice under section 112(A1) of EA 2002
(as applied by  section 313 ), and

312.5.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier day (whether before or after the penalty
is imposed), the amount payable ceases to accumulate at the beginning of the
day on which the undertaking first complies with the requirement in question.

312.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining the
turnover (both inside and outside the United Kingdom) of an undertaking for
the purposes of this section.

312.7

The regulations may, among other things—

312.7.a

make provision about amounts which are, or are not, to be included in an
undertaking’s turnover;

312.7.b

make provision about the date or dates by reference to which an undertaking’s
turnover is to be determined;

312.7.c

confer on the CMA the power to determine and make provision about matters
specified in the regulations (including the matters mentioned in paragraphs
(a)  and  (b) ).

312.8

Regulations under  subsection (6)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Procedure and appeals

313

313.1

Sections 112 (penalties: main procedural requirements), 113 (payments and
interest by instalments), section 114 (appeals) and 115 (recovery of
penalties) of EA 2002 apply in relation to a penalty imposed under  section
312  as they apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section 110(1) of
that Act.

313.2

For the purposes of this section—

313.2.a

sections 112 to 115 of EA 2002 are to be read as if references to “the
appropriate authority” were references to the CMA only;

313.2.b

section 114(5A) of EA 2002 is to be read as if the words “In the case of a
penalty imposed on a by the CMA or OFCOM,” were omitted;

313.2.c

section 114(12) of EA 2002 is to be read as if, for paragraph (b), there were
substituted—

313.2.c.b

“ the relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most
recently published under  section 314  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024 at the time of the act or omission giving rise to the
penalty.

##### Statement of policy on penalties

314

314.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
exercise of powers to impose a penalty under  section 312 .

314.2

The statement must include a statement about the considerations relevant to
the determination of—

314.2.a

whether to impose a penalty under  section 312 , and

314.2.b

the nature and amount of any such penalty.

314.3

The CMA may revise its statement of policy and, where it does so, must publish
the revised statement.

314.4

In preparing or revising its statement of policy the CMA must consult—

314.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

314.4.b

such other persons as the CMA considers appropriate.

314.5

A statement of policy, or revised statement, may not be published under this
section without the approval of the Secretary of State.

314.6

Subsection (7)  applies where the CMA proposes to impose a penalty under
section 312  on an undertaking.

314.7

The CMA must have regard to the statement of policy most recently published
under this section at the time of the act or omission giving rise to the
penalty when deciding—

314.7.a

whether to impose the penalty, and

314.7.b

if so, the amount of the penalty.

##### Offences etc

315

######## Destroying or falsifying information

315.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if, having been required to give
information to the CMA under  section 311 , P—

315.1.a

intentionally or recklessly destroys or otherwise disposes of it, falsifies or
conceals it, or

315.1.b

causes or permits its destruction, disposal, falsification or concealment.

######## False or misleading information

315.2

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if—

315.2.a

P gives information to the CMA in connection with an information notice under
section 311 ,

315.2.b

the information is false or misleading in a material particular, and

315.2.c

P knows that it is or is reckless as to whether it is.

315.3

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P gives information to another person
which is false or misleading in a material particular and P—

315.3.a

either—

315.3.a.i

knows the information to be false or misleading in a material particular, or

315.3.a.ii

is reckless as to whether the information is false or misleading in a material
particular, and

315.3.b

knows that the information will be given to the CMA in connection with an
information notice under that section.

######## Sentences

315.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

315.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

315.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

315.4.c

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine or to both.

######## Offences by officers of a body corporate etc

315.5

If an offence under this section committed by a body corporate is proved—

315.5.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body corporate, or

315.5.b

to be attributable to neglect on the part of an officer of the body corporate,

the officer as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

315.6

If the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members,  subsection (5)
applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection with
the member’s functions of management as if the member were an officer of the
body corporate.

315.7

If an offence under this section committed by a partnership in Scotland is
proved—

315.7.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or

315.7.b

to be attributable to neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership is guilty of the offence and liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

315.8

In  subsection (7) , “ partner ” includes a person purporting to act as a
partner.

##### Penalties under 

316

316.1

The CMA may not impose a penalty on a person under  section 312  in relation
to an act or omission which constitutes an offence under  section 315  if the
person has, in relation to that act or omission, been found guilty of that
offence.

316.2

A person may not be found guilty of an offence under  section 315  by virtue
of an act or omission if the person has paid a penalty imposed under  section
312  in relation to that act or omission.

##### Information sharing

317

In Schedule 14 to EA 2002 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the
appropriate place insert—

      Chapter 1 of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumer
Act 2024.

##### Expiry of this Chapter

318

318.1

This Chapter, apart from  subsection (5)  of this section and  section 317 ,
expires at the end of the relevant period.

318.2

The “ relevant period ” means the period of five years beginning with the day
on which this Act is passed.

318.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section to change the
definition of the “relevant period”.

318.4

Regulations under  subsection (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

318.5

The expiry of this Chapter does not affect its continued operation in relation
to any information notice given under  section 311  before its expiry.

#### Provision of investigative assistance to overseas regulators

##### Provision of investigative assistance to overseas regulators

319

319.1

A relevant regulator (“ R ”) may assist an overseas regulator (“ O ”) in
accordance with the table in  subsection (2)  where—

319.1.a

O makes a request to R (see  section 320 ) for R to assist O’s carrying out of
functions which correspond or are similar to functions of R under a relevant
enactment,

319.1.b

R considers that it would be appropriate to assist O (see  section 321 ), and

319.1.c

where the request is made otherwise than under or in accordance with a
qualifying cooperation arrangement, the Secretary of State authorises R to
assist O (see  section 322 ).

319.2

The table in this subsection is—

    Where the enactment in question is— The regulator that may assist the
overseas regulator is— The regulator may assist the overseas regulator by—
Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition) the CMA exercising its powers under sections
26 to 29 of CA 1998 as if, by assisting O’s carrying out of functions which
correspond or are similar to the functions of the CMA under Part 1 of that
Act, the CMA were carrying out an investigation under section 25 of that Act
Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers) the CMA exercising its powers under section 109 of
EA 2002 as if assisting O’s carrying out of functions which correspond or are
similar to the functions of the CMA under Part 3 of that Act were a “
permitted purpose ” for the purposes of that section Part 6 of EA 2002 (cartel
offence) the CMA exercising its powers under sections 193 and 194 of EA 2002
as if, by assisting O’s carrying out of functions which correspond or are
similar to the functions of the CMA under Part 6 of that Act, the CMA were
carrying out an investigation under section 192 of that Act Schedule 5 to CRA
2015 (investigatory powers) an enforcer for the purposes of Schedule 5 to CRA
2015 (see paragraph 2 of that Schedule) exercising the powers under Parts 3
and 4 of Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 in connection with an infringement of the law
of, or other requirement imposed in, the country or territory of O which
appears to R to make provision corresponding or similar to an enactment or
other obligation or rule of law listed in  Schedule 15  to this Act  Part 1 of
this Act (digital markets) the CMA exercising its powers under any of sections
69 ,  71  and  79  as if assisting O’s carrying out of a function which
corresponds or is similar to a digital markets function (as defined in section
118 ) were itself a digital markets function  Part 1 of this Act (digital
markets) the CMA exercising its powers under any of sections  72 ,  74  and
75  as if, by assisting O’s carrying out of any investigation which
corresponds or is similar to a digital markets investigation (as defined in
section  118 ), the CMA were carrying out a digital markets investigation

319.3

For the purposes of the exercise by R of the powers under Parts 3 and 4 of
Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 by virtue of this Chapter—

319.3.a

paragraphs 13, 19 and 20 of that Schedule are to be ignored;

319.3.b

where a power is exercisable only by an enforcer of a particular description,
the power is exercisable by R only if R is an enforcer of that description;

319.3.c

references in Part 4 of that Schedule to the enforcer’s legislation, in
relation to a domestic enforcer, are to be read in relation to R as references
to the law of, or other requirement imposed in, the country or territory of O
mentioned in the entry for that Schedule in the table in  subsection (2) .

319.4

Any reference in an enactment (other than in this Chapter) to the functions of
a relevant regulator under a relevant enactment includes a reference to those
functions as exercised by virtue of this Chapter.

319.5

In this Chapter—

      “ cooperation arrangement ” means an arrangement or agreement relating
in whole or in part to cooperation in matters relating to the subject matter
of a relevant enactment;           “ overseas regulator ” or “ O ” means a
person or body in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom which
appears to R to exercise functions of a public nature corresponding or similar
to functions of R;           “ qualifying cooperation arrangement ” means any
cooperation arrangement—         to which the United Kingdom and the country
or territory of O are parties, and           which provides for the provision
of mutual assistance as between the United Kingdom and that country or
territory, or as between R and persons or bodies in that country or territory,
in relation to matters relating to—         functions of R under a relevant
enactment, or           functions of O which correspond or are similar to
those functions;                       “ relevant enactment ” means an
enactment listed in the first column of the table in  subsection (2) ;
“ relevant regulator ” or “ R ” means a regulator listed in the second column
of the table in  subsection (2) .

##### Requests for investigative assistance

320

320.1

Subsection (2)  makes provision about requests from O for the purposes of
section 319 (1) (a) .

320.2

A request from O to R for R to assist O must—

320.2.a

be made in writing,

320.2.b

describe the matter in respect of which R’s assistance is requested, and

320.2.c

include details of any penalty or sanction that could be imposed as a result
of the carrying out by O of the functions in respect of which R’s assistance
is requested.

##### The appropriateness of providing investigative assistance

321

321.1

This subsection makes provision about how R is to consider whether it would be
appropriate to assist O for the purposes of  section 319 (1) (b) .

321.2

In considering whether it would be appropriate to assist O, R must have regard
to whether—

321.2.a

R would be able to exercise its powers under the relevant enactment concerned
in a corresponding or similar case arising in the United Kingdom;

321.2.b

the United Kingdom and the country or territory of O, or R and O, are parties
to a cooperation arrangement;

321.2.c

the matter in respect of which the assistance is requested is sufficiently
serious to justify R assisting O.

321.3

R may consider that it would not be appropriate to assist O unless O
undertakes to make such contribution as R considers appropriate towards the
cost of R doing so.

321.4

R must consider that it would not be appropriate to assist O where any of
subsections  (5)  to  (8)  apply.

321.5

This subsection applies where R considers that—

321.5.a

a person or body in the country or territory of O (whether or not O) would not
provide corresponding or substantially similar assistance to R, unless R
considers that there is an overriding public benefit to the United Kingdom in
assisting O;

321.5.b

assisting O would be contrary to the public interest.

321.6

This subsection applies where—

321.6.a

the matter to which the request relates concerns the investigation of crime or
the bringing of criminal proceedings, and

321.6.b

the request is made otherwise than under or in accordance with a qualifying
cooperation arrangement.

321.7

This subsection applies where R would not be able to disclose, under Part 9 of
EA 2002 (information), to O any information obtained by R in the course of
assisting O.

321.8

This subsection applies where—

321.8.a

the request relates to a matter in respect of which in a corresponding or
similar case arising in the United Kingdom R would not be able to exercise its
powers under the relevant enactment concerned unless R has reasonable grounds
for suspecting that there has, or may have, been a breach of the law (“the
relevant UK law”), and

321.8.b

R does not have reasonable grounds for suspecting that there has, or may have,
been a breach of the law of the country or territory of O which appears to R
to make provision corresponding or similar to the relevant UK law in question.

321.9

For the purposes of  subsection (8) (b) , R is to regard as conclusive a
certificate issued by O as to whether there has, or may have, been a breach of
the law of the country or territory of O.

##### Authorisation of the provision of investigative assistance

322

322.1

This section makes provision about how the Secretary of State authorises R to
assist O for the purposes of  section 319 (1) (c) .

322.2

The Secretary of State may authorise R to assist O either—

322.2.a

in relation to one or more specific requests for assistance, or

322.2.b

generally in respect of requests for assistance of a particular description
(including in respect of requests from particular overseas regulators).

322.3

The Secretary of State may withdraw any general authorisation given under
subsection (2) (b) .

322.4

The Secretary of State must publish—

322.4.a

any general authorisation given under  subsection (2) (b) ;

322.4.b

notice of any withdrawal of a general authorisation under  subsection (3) .

322.5

In considering whether to authorise R to assist O (whether specifically or
generally), the Secretary of State must have regard to whether—

322.5.a

O’s request for assistance is made under, or in accordance with, the terms of
an arrangement or agreement (other than a qualifying cooperation arrangement)
to which the United Kingdom is a party (and, where it is, the Secretary of
State must also have regard to the terms of the arrangement or agreement);

322.5.b

it would be more appropriate, in relation to the matter in respect of which
R’s assistance is requested, for—

322.5.b.i

any of R’s powers under the relevant enactment concerned to be exercised
solely on behalf of R (and not by virtue of this Chapter), or

322.5.b.ii

for functions to be exercised by another person or body in the United Kingdom
or in a country or territory other than the country or territory of O;

322.5.c

R assisting O would be contrary to the public interest.

322.6

In authorising R to assist O, the Secretary of State may impose conditions on
R doing so.

322.7

The conditions that may be imposed include conditions—

322.7.a

requiring R, before assisting O, to obtain an undertaking from O that any
information obtained by R in assisting O will not be used, or will only be
used, for specified purposes;

322.7.b

requiring R not to use specified powers that would otherwise be available to R
in assisting O;

322.7.c

requiring R to assist O by using specified powers available to R only in a
specified manner;

322.7.d

requiring R to assist O only in respect of specified matters.

322.8

In  subsection (7) , “ specified ” means specified in a condition imposed by
the Secretary of State under  subsection (6) .

##### Notifications in respect of requests for investigative assistance

323

323.1

R must notify the Secretary of State that R has received a request for
assistance from O where—

323.1.a

R considers that it would be appropriate for R to assist O, and

323.1.b

the Secretary of State has not given R a general authorisation to provide O
with the assistance requested (see  section 322 (2) (b) ).

323.2

But  subsection (1)  does not apply where O’s request is made under or in
accordance with a qualifying cooperation arrangement.

323.3

R must notify O as to whether R will be providing the assistance requested
and, where relevant, of any conditions imposed on that assistance (see
section 322 (6) ).

##### Guidance in connection with investigative assistance

324

324.1

The CMA must prepare and publish guidance about—

324.1.a

the making and consideration of requests for assistance under this Chapter,
and

324.1.b

the provision of assistance under this Chapter.

324.2

The CMA may at any time prepare and publish revised or new guidance.

324.3

No guidance is to be published under this section without the approval of the
Secretary of State.

324.4

In preparing guidance under this section the CMA must consult such persons as
it considers appropriate.

324.5

A relevant regulator must have regard to the guidance for the time being in
force when it is exercising functions under or in connection this Chapter.

##### Amendments to other legislation

325

Schedule 28  makes amendments to other legislation in connection with the
provision made by this Chapter.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Disclosing information overseas

326

326.1

Part 9 of EA 2002 (information) is amended as follows.

326.2

For section 243 (overseas disclosures) substitute—

########### Overseas disclosures for both overseas and domestic purposes

326.2.243A

326.2.243A.1

A public authority which holds information to which section 237 applies (“the
discloser”) may disclose that information to an overseas public authority for
the purpose of facilitating both—

326.2.243A.1.a

the exercise by the discloser of any function it has under or by virtue of
this Act or any other enactment, and

326.2.243A.1.b

the exercise by the overseas public authority of any function which it has
relating to—

326.2.243A.1.b.i

carrying out investigations in connection with the enforcement of any relevant
law by means of civil proceedings;

326.2.243A.1.b.ii

bringing civil proceedings for the enforcement of such law or the conduct of
such proceedings;

326.2.243A.1.b.iii

the investigation of crime;

326.2.243A.1.b.iv

bringing criminal proceedings or the conduct of such proceedings;

326.2.243A.1.b.v

deciding whether to start or bring to an end such investigations or
proceedings.

326.2.243A.2

Subsection (1)  does not apply to any of the following—

326.2.243A.2.a

information which is held by a person who is a private designated enforcer for
the purposes of  Chapter 3  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition
and Consumers Act 2024 (see  section 151  of that Act);

326.2.243A.2.b

information which comes to a public authority in connection with an
investigation under Part 4 or section 174 of this Act;

326.2.243A.2.c

information which comes to a public authority in connection with an
investigation under section 11 of the Competition Act 1980;

326.2.243A.2.d

legacy information within the meaning of  subsection (5) .

326.2.243A.3

In  subsection (1) (a) , the reference to an enactment includes a reference to
an enactment contained in—

326.2.243A.3.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

326.2.243A.3.b

Northern Ireland legislation;

326.2.243A.3.c

subordinate legislation.

326.2.243A.4

In  subsection (1) (b) (i) , “ relevant law ” means—

326.2.243A.4.a

this Act, any enactment specified in Schedule 14 and such subordinate
legislation as is specified by order for the purposes of section 238(1);

326.2.243A.4.b

any enactment, obligation or rule of law specified in  Schedule 15  to the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (consumer protection
enactments);

326.2.243A.4.c

any legislation, or any obligation or rule of law in a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom which appears to the discloser to make provision
corresponding or similar to anything within paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) .

326.2.243A.5

In  subsection (2) (d) , “ legacy information ” means information which—

326.2.243A.5.a

comes to a public authority in connection with the exercise of its functions
under or by virtue of paragraphs 15 to 18 of Schedule 24 relating to
investigations under Parts 4 or 6 of the 1973 Act;

326.2.243A.5.b

came to a public authority—

326.2.243A.5.b.i

before the coming into force of this section, and

326.2.243A.5.b.ii

in connection with the exercise of its functions under or by virtue of
paragraphs 15 to 18 of Schedule 24 relating to investigations under Part 5 of
the 1973 Act;

326.2.243A.5.c

came to a public authority—

326.2.243A.5.c.i

before 1 July 2021, and

326.2.243A.5.c.ii

in connection with an investigation under Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002.

########### Overseas disclosures for overseas purposes only

326.2.243B

326.2.243B.1

A public authority which holds information to which section 237 applies (“the
discloser”) may disclose that information to an overseas public authority for
the purpose mentioned in  section 243A (1) (b) .

326.2.243B.2

Subsection (2)  of  section 243A  applies for the purposes of  subsection (1)
of  this section  as it applies for the purposes of  subsection (1)  of  that
section .

########### Overseas disclosures for designated cooperation arrangement purposes

326.2.243C

326.2.243C.1

A public authority which holds information to which section 237 applies (“the
discloser”) may disclose that information to an overseas public authority for
a purpose permitted under or by virtue of a designated cooperation
arrangement.

326.2.243C.2

“ Designated cooperation arrangement ” means an arrangement or agreement that
meets all of Conditions A to D.

326.2.243C.3

Condition A is that the arrangement or agreement is between—

326.2.243C.3.a

a public authority and an overseas public authority, or

326.2.243C.3.b

the United Kingdom and a country or territory.

326.2.243C.4

Condition B is that the arrangement or agreement relates to cooperation
between—

326.2.243C.4.a

the public authority and the overseas public authority, or

326.2.243C.4.b

public authorities in the United Kingdom and persons or bodies in that country
or territory,

for the purposes of facilitating the exercise of functions related to anything
mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (v)  of  section 243A (1) (b) .

326.2.243C.5

Condition C is that the arrangement or agreement provides for—

326.2.243C.5.a

the overseas public authority and the public authority, or

326.2.243C.5.b

a person or body in that country or territory and public authorities in the
United Kingdom,

to provide corresponding or substantially similar assistance to each other for
the purposes of facilitating the exercise of functions related to anything
mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (v)  of  section 243A (1) (b) .

326.2.243C.6

Condition D is that the arrangement or agreement is designated in regulations
made by the Secretary of State.

326.2.243C.7

Before designating an arrangement or agreement in regulations under
subsection (6) , the Secretary of State must have regard in particular to
whether the arrangement or agreement contains provision restricting or
preventing—

326.2.243C.7.a

the use for another purpose of information disclosed for a purpose permitted
under or by virtue of the arrangement or agreement;

326.2.243C.7.b

the further disclosure of such information.

326.2.243C.8

The Secretary of State may not designate an arrangement or agreement in
regulations under  subsection (6)  unless the Secretary of State is satisfied
that—

326.2.243C.8.a

the law and practice of the country or territory, or the country or territory
of the overseas public authority, with whom the arrangement or agreement is
with provides appropriate protection against self-incrimination in criminal
proceedings, and

326.2.243C.8.b

the law and practice of that country or territory provides appropriate
protection in relation to the storage and disclosure of confidential
information.

326.2.243C.9

For the purposes of  subsection (8) , protection is appropriate if it provides
protection in relation to the matter in question which corresponds or is
substantially similar to that so provided in any part of the United Kingdom.

326.2.243C.10

Regulations under  subsection (6)  are to be made by statutory instrument
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

########### Use and further disclosure of information disclosed under sections 

326.2.243D

326.2.243D.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply to information disclosed by virtue of
section 243A  to the extent that the disclosure was to facilitate the exercise
by the discloser of any function it has under or by virtue of this Act or any
other enactment (“the original function”) in relation to a particular matter
(“the original matter”).

326.2.243D.2

The information must not be used by the overseas public authority other than
for facilitating the exercise by the discloser of the original function in
relation to the original matter unless—

326.2.243D.2.a

the use is for the purpose of facilitating the exercise by the discloser of
any function it has under this Act or any other enactment (other than the
original function) whether or not in relation to the original matter, and

326.2.243D.2.b

the discloser consents to the use of that information for that purpose.

326.2.243D.3

The information must not be further disclosed by the overseas public authority
unless—

326.2.243D.3.a

the further disclosure is for the purpose of facilitating the exercise by the
discloser of any function it has under this Act or any other enactment
(whether or not the original function) whether or not in relation to the
original matter, and

326.2.243D.3.b

the discloser consents to the further disclosure of the information for that
purpose.

326.2.243D.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply to information disclosed by virtue of
section  243A  or  243B  to the extent that the disclosure was to facilitate
the exercise of functions of an overseas public authority relating to anything
mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (v)  of  section 243A (1) (b)  (“the
original function”) in relation to a particular matter (“the original
matter”).

326.2.243D.5

The information must not be used by the overseas public authority other than
for facilitating the exercise by the authority of the original function in
relation to the original matter unless—

326.2.243D.5.a

the use is for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of a function which
the authority has relating to anything mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to
(v)  of  section 243A (1) (b)  (other than the original function) whether or
not in relation to the original matter, and

326.2.243D.5.b

the discloser consents to the use of that information for that purpose.

326.2.243D.6

The information must not be further disclosed by the overseas public authority
unless—

326.2.243D.6.a

the further disclosure is for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of any
of its functions relating to anything mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to
(v)  of  subsection (1) (b)  of  section 243A   (whether or not the original
function) whether or not in relation to the original matter, and

326.2.243D.6.b

the discloser consents to the further disclosure of the information for that
purpose.

326.2.243D.7

In deciding whether to consent to the use or further disclosure of information
for the purposes of subsection  (2) (b) ,  (3) (b) ,  (5) (b)  or  (6) (b) ,
the discloser must have regard to the considerations in  section 243F  to
which it would be required to have regard if it were deciding to disclose the
information under  243A  or  243B .

326.2.243D.8

Nothing in this section prevents information being used, or further disclosed,
by the overseas public authority if that use, or further disclosure, is
required under the law of the country or territory of the authority.

########### Directions by the Secretary of State relating to overseas disclosures under sections 

326.2.243E

326.2.243E.1

The Secretary of State may direct that a disclosure permitted under section
243A  or  243B  must not be made if the Secretary of State thinks that, in
connection with any matter in respect of which the disclosure could be made,
it is more appropriate—

326.2.243E.1.a

if any investigation is to be carried out, that it is carried out by an
authority in the United Kingdom or in another specified country or territory
(rather than by the overseas public authority);

326.2.243E.1.b

if any proceedings are to be brought, that they are brought in a court in the
United Kingdom or in another specified country or territory (rather than in
the country or territory of the overseas authority).

326.2.243E.2

In  subsection (1) , “ specified ” means specified in the direction.

326.2.243E.3

The Secretary of State must take such steps as the Secretary of State thinks
are appropriate to bring a direction under  subsection (1)  to the attention
of persons likely to be affected by it.

########### Relevant considerations relating to overseas disclosures under sections 

326.2.243F

326.2.243F.1

This section applies when a public authority is deciding whether to make a
disclosure under section  243A  or  243B .

326.2.243F.2

In deciding whether to make a disclosure under  section 243A , the public
authority must have regard in particular to the following considerations—

326.2.243F.2.a

whether the law and practice of the country or territory to whose authority
the disclosure would be made provides appropriate protection against self-
incrimination in criminal proceedings;

326.2.243F.2.b

whether the law and practice of that country or territory provides appropriate
protection in relation to the storage and disclosure of confidential
information.

326.2.243F.3

In deciding whether to make a disclosure under  section 243B , the public
authority must have regard in particular to the considerations in  subsection
(2)  and the following additional considerations—

326.2.243F.3.a

whether the matter in respect of which the disclosure is sought is
sufficiently serious to justify making the disclosure;

326.2.243F.3.b

whether the disclosure would further the aims or purposes of any convention or
treaty relating in whole or in part to cooperation in matters relating to
competition or consumer protection to which the United Kingdom and the country
or territory of the authority to whom the disclosure would be made are
parties;

326.2.243F.3.c

whether there are arrangements in place for the provision of mutual assistance
as between the United Kingdom and that country or territory to whose authority
the disclosure would be made in relation to the disclosure of information of
the kind to which section 237 applies;

326.2.243F.3.d

whether a person or body in that country or territory would assist the public
authority in a way that corresponds or is substantially similar to the
assistance that it is proposed the public authority give to the overseas
public authority by making the disclosure.

326.2.243F.4

For the purposes of this section, protection is appropriate if it provides
protection in relation to the matter in question which corresponds or is
substantially similar to that so provided in any part of the United Kingdom.

326.2.243F.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsections  (2)  and  (3)  so
as to—

326.2.243F.5.a

alter any consideration for the time being included in those subsections;

326.2.243F.5.b

add further considerations;

326.2.243F.5.c

remove any considerations.

326.2.243F.6

Regulations under  subsection (5)  are to be made by statutory instrument and
are subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

326.3

In section 244 (specified information: considerations relevant to disclosure)—

326.3.a

in subsection (2), for “information whose disclosure the authority thinks is
contrary to the public interest” substitute  “sensitive information” ;

326.3.b

in subsection (3), for the words after “(so far as practicable)” to the end of
paragraph (b) substitute  “any commercial information or private information”
.

326.4

In section 245 (offences) in subsection (2), for “243(4)” substitute  “ 243E ”
.

326.5

For section 246 substitute—

########### Interpretation

326.5.246A

In this Part—

      “ commercial information ” means information relating to any business of
an undertaking whose disclosure the public authority concerned or, for the
purposes of  section 243C  the Secretary of State, thinks might significantly
harm the undertaking’s legitimate business interests;           “ confidential
information ” means commercial information, private information or sensitive
information;           “ overseas public authority ” means a person or body in
any country or territory outside the United Kingdom which appears to the
discloser (within the meaning of any of sections  243A  to  243C ) to exercise
functions of a public nature in relation to anything mentioned in sub-
paragraphs  (i)  to  (v)  of  section 243A (1) (b) ;           “ private
information ” mean information relating to the private affairs of an
individual whose disclosure the public authority concerned, or for the
purposes of  section 243C  the Secretary of State, thinks might significantly
harm the individual’s interests;           “ sensitive information ” means
information whose disclosure the public authority concerned or, for the
purposes of  section 243C  the Secretary of State, thinks would be contrary to
the public interest;           “ subordinate legislation ” has the same
meaning as in section 21(1) of the Interpretation Act 1978 and includes an
instrument made under—         an Act of the Scottish Parliament;
Northern Ireland legislation.

326.6

In section 59 of the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community
Enterprises) Act 2004 (information), in subsection (6)—

326.6.a

for “section 243(6)” substitute  “ section 243F (2)  and  (3) ” ;

326.6.b

for “(overseas disclosures)” substitute  “(relevant considerations relating to
overseas disclosures)” .

##### Duty of expedition on the CMA and sectoral regulators

327

327.1

In section 25 of ERRA 2013 (the Competition and Markets Authority), after
subsection (4) insert—

327.1.5

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions within  Schedule 4A  the CMA must have regard to the need for
making a decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

327.2

After Schedule 4 to ERRA 2013 insert—

  Functions to which the CMA’s duty of expedition applies

Section 25

############# Introduction

327.2.1

The following functions are functions within this Schedule for the purposes of
section 25 (5) .

############# Competition functions

############## Functions under the Enterprise Act 2002

327.2.2

Functions under Part 3 of the 2002 Act (mergers) other than functions under—

327.2.2.a

section 94B (statement of policy about functions under sections 94 and 94AA);

327.2.2.b

section 106 (advice and information about references under section 22 or 33);

327.2.2.c

section 116 (statement of policy about penalties).

327.2.3

Functions under Part 4 of the 2002 Act (market studies and market
investigations) other than functions under—

327.2.3.a

section 166 (register of undertakings and orders);

327.2.3.b

section 167C  (statement of policy about functions under sections 167 and
167A);

327.2.3.c

section 171 (advice and information about market investigation references);

327.2.3.d

section 174E (statement of policy about penalties).

327.2.4

Functions under Part 6 of the 2002 Act (the cartel offence) other than
functions under section 190A (cartel offence: prosecution guidance).

############## Functions under Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998

327.2.5

Functions under Part 1 of the 1998 Act (competition) other than functions
under—

327.2.5.a

section 31D (guidance about the acceptance of commitments under section 31A);

327.2.5.b

section 35C  (statement of policy about penalties under sections 31E, 34 and
35A);

327.2.5.c

section 38 (the appropriate level of a penalty);

327.2.5.d

section 40B (statement of policy about penalties under section 40A);

327.2.5.e

section 51 (CMA rules);

327.2.5.f

section 52 (advice and information about the Chapter 1 and 2 prohibitions);

327.2.5.g

section 54 (functions of sectoral regulators).

############## Functions under Chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991

327.2.6

Functions under sections 32 to 35 of the Water Industry Act 1991 (protection
of consumers: competition provisions).

############# Consumer functions

############## Functions under Part 3 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024

327.2.7

Functions under Part 3 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 (enforcement powers for infringements of consumer protection law) other
than functions under—

327.2.7.a

section 199  (statement of policy about penalties);

327.2.7.b

sections 210  and  211  (rules about direct enforcement functions);

327.2.7.c

section 212  (guidance about direct enforcement functions).

327.2.8

Functions under Chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024 (protection from unfair trading).

############## Functions under the Consumer Rights Act 2015

327.2.9

327.2.9.1

Functions under Schedule 3 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (enforcement of law
on unfair contract terms and notices) other than functions under paragraph
7(2) to (5) of that Schedule (provision of information and advice).

327.2.9.2

Functions under Schedule 5 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (investigatory
powers) other than functions under paragraph 16F of that Schedule (statement
of policy about penalties).

############## Functions under the Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008

327.2.10

Functions under the Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations
2008 ( S.I. 1276/2008 ) other than functions under regulation 20(2) of those
Regulations (provision of information and advice).

############# Digital market functions

############## Functions under Part 1 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024

327.2.11

Functions under Part 1 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 (digital markets) other than functions under—

327.2.11.a

section 60  (content of report under section  57  etc);

327.2.11.b

section 67  (regulations about duty to notify);

327.2.11.c

section 91  (statement of policy on penalties);

327.2.11.d

section 114  (guidance about functions under Part 1).

327.3

In consequence of the amendments made by subsections  (1)  and  (2) —

327.3.a

in section 103 of EA 2002 (duty of expedition in relation to references)—

327.3.a.i

in the heading, at the end insert  “under section 45 or 62” ;

327.3.a.ii

omit subsection (1);

327.3.b

in the Water Mergers (Modification of Enactments) Regulations 2004 ( S.I.
2004/3202 ) omit Article 25A (modification of section 103 of EA 2002).

327.4

Schedule 29  makes provision imposing a duty of expedition on sectoral
regulators in respect of their competition functions that are exercisable
concurrently with the CMA.

##### Offenders assisting investigations and prosecutions: powers of the CMA

328

328.1

In Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005
(offenders assisting investigations and prosecutions), section 71 (assistance
by offender: immunity from prosecution) is amended as follows.

328.2

In subsection (4), after paragraph (dab) insert—

328.2.dac

the Competition and Markets Authority;

.

328.3

In subsection (6A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “the Bank of
England,” insert  “the Competition and Markets Authority” .

328.4

After subsection (7) insert—

328.4.8

The Competition and Markets Authority, or a person designated by the
Competition and Markets Authority under subsection (4)(e), may not give an
immunity notice (but has the other powers available to specified prosecutors).

##### Removal of limit on the tenure of a chair of the Competition Appeal Tribunal

329

In Schedule 2 to EA 2002 (the Competition Appeal Tribunal), in paragraph 2
(tenure etc) omit sub-paragraph (2).

### General

#### Interpretation

330

In this Act—

      “ CA 1998 ” means the Competition Act 1998;           “ CRA 2015 ” means
the Consumer Rights Act 2015;           “ EA 2002 ” means the Enterprise Act
2002;           “ ERRA 2013 ” means the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act
2013;           “ the CMA ” means the Competition and Markets Authority;
“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ digital content ”
means data which is produced and supplied in digital form;           “
enactment ” means an enactment whenever passed or made and includes—
an enactment contained in any Order in Council, order, rules, regulations,
scheme, warrant, byelaw or other instrument made under an Act,           an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish
Parliament,           an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made
under, a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru,           an enactment contained in,
or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation, and
any assimilated direct legislation;                 “ firm ” means any entity,
whether or not a legal person, that is not an individual and includes a body
corporate, a corporation sole and a partnership or other unincorporated
association;           “ United Kingdom national ” means—         a British
citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National (Overseas)
or a British Overseas citizen;           a person who is a British subject
under the British Nationality Act 1981;           a British protected person
within the meaning of that Act;                 “ working day ” means any day
other than—         a Saturday or Sunday, or           a day that is a bank
holiday in any part of the United Kingdom under the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971.

#### Data protection

331

331.1

This section applies to a duty or power to process information that is imposed
or conferred by or under any provision of this Act.

331.2

A duty or power to which this section applies does not require or authorise
the processing of information which would contravene the data protection
legislation (but the duty or power is to be taken into account in determining
whether the processing would contravene that legislation).

#### Notices

332

332.1

This section  applies in relation to a notice given to a person—

332.1.a

under this Act by the CMA, or

332.1.b

under  Part 3  by another enforcer (within the meaning of that Part).

332.2

The notice may be given by—

332.2.a

delivering it to the person,

332.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

332.2.c

sending it by post to the person at that address, or

332.2.d

sending it to the person by email to their email address.

332.3

A notice to a body corporate may be given in accordance with subsection  (2)
to any officer of that body.

332.4

A notice to a partnership may be given in accordance with subsection  (2)  to
any partner or a person who has the control or management of the partnership
business.

332.5

A notice to a firm that is not a body corporate or a partnership may be given
in accordance with subsection  (2)  to any member of the governing body of the
firm.

332.6

A person’s proper address is—

332.6.a

in a case where the person has specified an address as one at which the
person, or someone acting on the person’s behalf, will accept service of
notices or other documents, that address;

332.6.b

in any other case, the address determined in accordance with  subsection (7) .

332.7

A person’s proper address is (if  subsection (6) (a)  does not apply)—

332.7.a

in the case of a body corporate, its registered or principal office;

332.7.b

in the case of a partnership, the principal office of the partnership;

332.7.c

in the case of a firm that is not a body corporate or a partnership, the
principal office of the firm;

332.7.d

in a case where none of  paragraphs (a)  to  (c)  apply, any address at which
the CMA or other enforcer giving the notice believes, on reasonable grounds,
that the notice will come to the attention of the person.

332.8

A person’s email address is—

332.8.a

any email address published for the time being by that person as an address
for contacting that person, or

332.8.b

if there is no such published address, any email address by means of which the
CMA or other enforcer believes, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will
come to the attention of that person.

332.9

In the case of—

332.9.a

a body corporate registered outside the United Kingdom,

332.9.b

a partnership carrying on business outside the United Kingdom, or

332.9.c

any other type of firm with offices outside the United Kingdom,

references to its principal office include references to its principal office
in the United Kingdom or, if it has no principal office in the United Kingdom,
any place in the United Kingdom where it carries on business or conducts
activities.

332.10

In  this section  “ officer ”, in relation to any body corporate, means a
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body.

332.11

This section  does not limit any other lawful means of giving notice.

#### Consultation

333

A duty to consult under or by virtue of this Act may be satisfied by
consultation that took place wholly or partly before the passing of this Act.

#### Financial provision

334

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

334.a

any expenses incurred by the Secretary of State or the CMA under or by virtue
of this Act, and

334.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Minor and consequential amendments

335

Schedule 30  contains minor and consequential amendments.

#### Power to make further consequential provision

336

336.1

The appropriate authority may by regulations make provision that is
consequential on this Act or on any provision made under it.

336.2

The power to make regulations under this section includes power to amend,
repeal or revoke provision made by an enactment passed or made before the end
of the Session in which this Act is passed.

336.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure if
they amend, repeal or revoke any provision of primary legislation.

336.4

Regulations under this section to which  subsection (3)  does not apply are
subject to the negative procedure.

336.5

In this section—

      “ appropriate authority ” means—         in the case of regulations
under this section that contain amendments only in relation to tax, the
Treasury;           in any other case, the Secretary of State;
“ primary legislation ” means—         an Act of Parliament (including this
Act);           an Act of the Scottish Parliament;           a Measure or Act
of Senedd Cymru;           Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Regulations

337

337.1

A power to make regulations under any provision of this Act includes power to
make—

337.1.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

337.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

337.2

Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

337.3

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “the affirmative procedure”,
the regulations may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument
containing them has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each
House of Parliament.

337.4

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “the negative procedure”, the
statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

337.5

In the case of regulations under section  336  made by the Treasury, the
references in subsections (3) and (4) to each or either House of Parliament
are to be read as references to the House of Commons only.

337.6

Any provision that may be made by regulations under this Act subject to the
negative procedure may be made in regulations subject to the affirmative
procedure.

337.7

This section does not apply to regulations under  section 339 .

#### Extent

338

338.1

Subject to subsection (2), this Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.

338.2

Any amendment, repeal or revocation made by this Act has the same extent as
the provision amended, repealed or revoked.

#### Commencement

339

339.1

Except as provided by subsections  (2)  and  (3) , this Act comes into force
on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

339.2

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

339.2.a

section 130  (and  Schedule 7 );

339.2.b

this Part, other than  section 335  (and  Schedule 30 );

339.2.c

any other provision of this Act so far as it confers power to make regulations
or is otherwise necessary for enabling the exercise of such a power on or
after the day on which this Act is passed.

339.3

Section 129  (and  Schedule 6 ) come into force at the end of the period of
two months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

339.4

Different days may be appointed under  subsection (1)  for different purposes.

339.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

339.6

The power to make regulations under subsection  (5)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

339.7

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

340

This Act may be cited as the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024.

## Schedules

  Procedure relating to commitments

Section 36

##### Application of Schedule

1

This Schedule applies for the purposes of Chapters  3  and  4  in relation to—

1.a

accepting a commitment,

1.b

accepting a variation of a commitment (a “requested variation”), or

1.c

releasing an undertaking from the requirement to comply with a commitment.

##### Procedure for accepting a commitment or requested variation

2

2.1

Before accepting a commitment or a requested variation the CMA must—

2.1.a

publish a notice under this paragraph, and

2.1.b

consider any representations made in accordance with the notice and not
withdrawn.

2.2

The notice must include—

2.2.a

the commitment or requested variation that the CMA proposes to accept,

2.2.b

the conduct requirement or, as the case may be, actual or suspected adverse
effect on competition to which the commitment or variation relates,

2.2.c

the CMA’s reasons for its proposed decision, and

2.2.d

the period within which representations may be made in relation to the
proposed commitment or requested variation.

3

3.1

Before accepting a modification of a commitment or requested variation, of
which notice has been given under paragraph  2 (1) , the CMA must—

3.1.a

publish a notice under this paragraph, and

3.1.b

consider any representations made in accordance with the notice and not
withdrawn.

3.2

The notice must include—

3.2.a

the proposed modifications,

3.2.b

the reasons for them, and

3.2.c

the period within which representations may be made in relation to them.

4

The CMA must publish notice of its decision on whether to, and the form in
which it will, accept a commitment or a requested variation as soon as
reasonably practicable.

5

The requirements of paragraphs  2  and  3  do not apply in relation to a
proposed modification which the CMA does not consider material.

##### Procedure for releasing an undertaking from a commitment

6

6.1

Before releasing an undertaking from a commitment the CMA must—

6.1.a

publish a notice under this paragraph, and

6.1.b

consider any representations made in accordance with the notice and not
withdrawn.

6.2

The notice must include—

6.2.a

that the CMA proposes to release the undertaking from the commitment,

6.2.b

the reasons for the CMA’s proposal, and

6.2.c

the period within which representations may be made in relation to the
proposal.

7

The CMA must publish a notice of its decision on whether to release an
undertaking from a commitment as soon as reasonably practicable.

  Mergers: holding of interests and rights

Section 58

##### Joint interests

1

If two or more persons each hold an interest or right jointly, each of them is
treated as holding that interest or right.

##### Joint arrangements

2

2.1

If interests or rights held by a person and interests or rights held by
another person are the subject of a joint arrangement between those persons,
each of them is treated as holding the combined interests or rights of both of
them.

2.2

A “joint arrangement” is an arrangement between the holders of interests or
rights that they will exercise all or substantially all the rights conferred
by their respective interests, or their respective rights, jointly in a way
that is pre-determined by the arrangement.

##### Interests held by nominees

3

An interest held by a person as nominee for another is to be treated as held
by the other (and not by the nominee).

##### Rights treated as held by person who controls their exercise

4

4.1

Where a person controls a right, the right is to be treated as held by that
person (and not by the person who in fact holds the right, unless that person
also controls it).

4.2

A person “controls” a right if, by virtue of any arrangement between that
person and others, the right is exercisable only—

4.2.a

by that person,

4.2.b

in accordance with that person’s directions or instructions, or

4.2.c

with that person’s consent or concurrence.

##### Rights exercisable only in certain circumstances etc

5

5.1

Rights that are exercisable by a person only in certain circumstances are to
be treated as held by the person only—

5.1.a

when the circumstances have arisen, and for so long as they continue to
obtain, or

5.1.b

when the circumstances are within the control of the person.

5.2

But rights that are exercisable by an administrator or by creditors while an
entity is in relevant insolvency proceedings are not to be regarded as held by
the administrator or creditors even while the entity is in those proceedings.

5.3

“ Relevant insolvency proceedings ” means—

5.3.a

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency Act 1986,

5.3.b

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

5.3.c

proceedings under the insolvency law of another country or territory during
which an entity’s assets and affairs are subject to the control or supervision
of a third party or creditor.

5.4

Rights that are normally exercisable but are temporarily incapable of exercise
are not for that reason to be treated as not being held.

##### Rights attached to shares held by way of security

6

Rights attached to shares held by way of security provided by a person are to
be treated as held by that person—

6.a

where apart from the right to exercise them for the purpose of preserving the
value of the security, or of realising it, the rights are exercisable only in
accordance with that person’s instructions, and

6.b

where the shares are held in connection with the granting of loans as part of
normal business activities and apart from the right to exercise them for the
purpose of preserving the value of the security, or of realising it, the
rights are exercisable only in that person’s interests.

##### Arrangements

7

7.1

In this Schedule “ arrangement ” includes—

7.1.a

any scheme, agreement or understanding, whether or not it is legally
enforceable, and

7.1.b

any convention, custom or practice of any kind.

7.2

But something does not count as an arrangement unless there is at least some
degree of stability about it (whether by its nature or terms, the time it has
been in existence or otherwise).

  Power of Competition Appeal Tribunal to grant declaratory relief

Section 125

1

Chapter 4 of Part 1 of CA 1998 (appeals before the Competition Appeal Tribunal
etc) is amended as follows.

2

In the italic heading before section 47A, after “damage” insert  “, or for
declaratory relief” .

3

In section 47A (proceedings before the Tribunal: claims for damages etc),
after subsection (3) insert—

3.3A

This section also applies to a claim for a declaration or, in relation to
Scotland, for a declarator which a person may make in respect of an
infringement decision or an alleged infringement of the Chapter 1 prohibition
or the Chapter 2 prohibition.

4

After section 47D insert—

######## Proceedings under section 47A or collective proceedings: declaratory relief

4.47DA

4.47DA.1

A declaration granted by the Tribunal in proceedings under section 47A or
collective proceedings has the same effect as a declaration granted by the
High Court.

4.47DA.2

A declarator granted by the Tribunal in proceedings under section 47A or
collective proceedings has the same effect as a declarator granted by the
Court of Session.

4.47DA.3

In deciding whether to grant a declaration in proceedings under section 47A or
collective proceedings, the Tribunal must apply the principles that the High
Court would apply in deciding whether to grant a declaration.

4.47DA.4

In deciding whether to grant a declarator in proceedings under section 47A or
collective proceedings, the Tribunal must apply the principles that the Court
of Session would apply in deciding whether to grant a declarator.

4.47DA.5

The Tribunal may grant a declaration or declarator in proceedings under
section 47A or collective proceedings whether or not any other remedy is
claimed.

5

In the italic heading before section 47F, after “damage” insert  “, or for
declaratory relief,” .

6

6.1

Section 47F (further provision about claims in respect of loss or damage
before a court or the Tribunal) is amended as follows.

6.2

In the heading, after “damage” insert  “, or for declaratory relief,” .

6.3

In the text, after “damage” insert  “, or for declarations or declarators,” .

7

7.1

In section 49 (further appeals from the Tribunal), subsection (1A) is amended
as follows.

7.2

Omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a).

7.3

After paragraph (b) insert

, or

7.3.c

as to the grant of a declaration or a declarator.

8

8.1

Schedule 8A (further provision about claims in respect of loss or damage
before a court or the Tribunal) is amended as follows.

8.2

In the heading, after “damage” insert  “, or for declaratory relief,” .

8.3

In paragraph 2 (competition law etc), for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

8.3.2

“ Competition claim ” means—

8.3.2.a

a claim in respect of loss or damage arising from an infringement of
competition law (whatever the legal basis of the claim) which is made by or on
behalf of—

8.3.2.a.i

the person who suffered the loss or damage, or

8.3.2.a.ii

a person who has acquired that person’s right to make the claim (whether by
operation of law or otherwise), or

8.3.2.b

a claim for a declaration or a declarator in respect of an infringement of
competition law.

8.4

In paragraph 9 (burden of proof where an overcharge is passed on to an
indirect purchaser), for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

8.4.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies where there is an overcharge as a result of an
infringement of competition law and—

8.4.1.a

a competition claim within paragraph 2 (2) (a)  is made in respect of loss or
damage which—

8.4.1.a.i

arises, directly or indirectly, from the overcharge, and

8.4.1.a.ii

was suffered by a person who acquired a product or service indirectly from the
infringer (“the injured person”), or

8.4.1.b

a competition claim within paragraph 2 (2) (b)  is made in respect of the
overcharge.

8.5

In paragraph 10 (burden of proof where an underpayment is passed on to an
indirect provider), for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

8.5.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies where there is an underpayment as a result of an
infringement of competition law and—

8.5.1.a

a competition claim within paragraph 2 (2) (a)  is made in respect of loss or
damage which—

8.5.1.a.i

arises, directly or indirectly, from the underpayment, and

8.5.1.a.ii

was suffered by a person who provided a product or service indirectly to the
infringer (“the injured person”), or

8.5.1.b

a competition claim within paragraph 2 (2) (b)  is made in respect of the
underpayment.

8.6

In paragraph 11 (burden of proof where an overcharge or underpayment is passed
on by the claimant)—

8.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (b) omit “loss or damage which arises,
directly or indirectly, from”;

8.6.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for “the person who suffered the loss or damage”
substitute  “a person who suffered loss or damage arising directly or
indirectly from the overcharge or underpayment” .

8.7

In paragraph 17 (time limits for bringing competition proceedings), in sub-
paragraph (2), in paragraph (b), for “the”, in the first place it occurs,
substitute  “any” .

8.8

In paragraph 19 (beginning of limitation or prescriptive period), after sub-
paragraph (6) insert—

8.8.6A

This paragraph applies in respect of a competition claim within paragraph 2
(2) (b)  as if—

8.8.6A.a

in sub-paragraph (2), paragraph (c) (but not the “, and” at the end of it)
were omitted;

8.8.6A.b

in sub-paragraph (3), paragraph (b) (and the “and” before it) were omitted;

8.8.6A.c

sub-paragraph (4) were omitted.

8.9

In paragraph 21 (suspension during investigation by competition authority), in
sub-paragraph (1) omit “in respect of loss or damage”.

8.10

In paragraph 24 (suspension of prescriptive period during period of
disability: Scotland)—

8.10.a

in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) for “injured person” substitute  “relevant
person” ;

8.10.b

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

8.10.b.4

In this paragraph, “ relevant person ” means—

8.10.b.4.a

in relation to a competition claim within paragraph 2 (2) (a) , a person who
suffered the loss or damages that is the subject of the claim;

8.10.b.4.b

in relation to a competition claim within paragraph 2 (2) (b) , the pursuer.

8.11

In paragraph 42 (application of Schedule 8A), in sub-paragraph (1), for the
words from “the claims and proceedings relate” to the end substitute

—

8.11.a

in respect of competition claims within paragraph 2 (2) (a) , the claim and
proceedings relate to loss or damage suffered on or after 8 March 2017 as a
result of an infringement of competition law that takes place on or after that
date;

8.11.b

in respect of competition claims within paragraph 2 (2) (b) , the claim and
proceedings relate to an infringement of competition law that takes place on
or after 8 March 2017.

8.12

In paragraph 43 (application of Schedule 8A), in the words before paragraph
(a), for “the relevant day” substitute  “8 March 2017” .

8.13

Omit paragraph 44 (definition of “relevant day”).

9

In Schedule 4 to EA 2002 (Competition Appeal Tribunal: procedure), after
paragraph 21A insert—

######## Declarations and declarators

9.21B

Tribunal rules may make provision in relation to the grant of declarations or
declarators (including interim declarations or interim declarators) in
proceedings under section 47A or 47B of the 1998 Act.

  Relevant and special merger situations

Section 127

1

Chapter 1 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: duty to make references) is amended
as follows.

2

2.1

Section 23 (relevant merger situations) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (b), for “£70 million” substitute  “£100
million” .

2.3

In subsection (2)—

2.3.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.3.b

at the end insert

; and

2.3.b.c

the value of the turnover in the United Kingdom of—

2.3.b.c.i

the enterprise being taken over, or

2.3.b.c.ii

any other enterprise concerned,

exceeds £10 million.

2.4

Before subsection (3) insert—

2.4.2B

For the purposes of subsection (2) (c) (ii) , any turnover of any other
enterprise concerned that is also turnover of the enterprise being taken over
is to be ignored.

2.5

Before subsection (5) insert—

2.5.4C

For the purposes of this Part, a relevant merger situation has also been
created if—

2.5.4C.a

two or more enterprises have ceased to be distinct enterprises at a time or in
circumstances falling within section 24; and

2.5.4C.b

each of the conditions mentioned in  subsections (4D)  to  (4F)  is satisfied.

2.5.4D

The condition mentioned in this subsection is that, were it not for the
enterprises concerned ceasing to be distinct enterprises, in relation to the
supply of goods or services of any description, at least 33 per cent of all
the goods or (as the case may be) services of that description which are
supplied in the United Kingdom, or in a substantial part of the United
Kingdom, would be supplied—

2.5.4D.a

by the person or persons by whom one of the enterprises concerned (“ E ”)
would be carried on, or

2.5.4D.b

to that person or those persons,

in connection with E or any other enterprise concerned with which E is under
common ownership or common control.

2.5.4E

The condition mentioned in this subsection is that the total value of the
turnover in the United Kingdom of E exceeds £350 million.

2.5.4F

The condition mentioned in this subsection is that, were it not for the
enterprises concerned ceasing to be distinct enterprises, an enterprise within
subsection (4G) would satisfy one or more of the following additional
conditions—

2.5.4F.a

the enterprise would be carried on by a body of persons corporate or
unincorporate formed or recognised under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom;

2.5.4F.b

the activities, or part of the activities, of the enterprise would be carried
on in the United Kingdom;

2.5.4F.c

the person, or persons, by whom the enterprise would be carried on supply
goods or services to a person or persons in the United Kingdom in connection
with the enterprise.

2.5.4G

The following enterprises are within this subsection—

2.5.4G.a

any enterprise concerned other than—

2.5.4G.a.i

E, or

2.5.4G.a.ii

any other enterprise with which E is under common ownership or common control;

2.5.4G.b

any enterprise concerned that, as a result of the enterprises concerned
ceasing to be distinct enterprises, a person or group of persons may be
treated as having brought under their control by virtue of section 26(4).

2.6

In subsection (5), after “(4)” insert  “, or of 33 per cent mentioned in
subsection (4D) ,” .

2.7

In subsection (6), for “and (4)” substitute  “, (4),  (4D)  and  (4F) (c) ” .

3

3.1

Section 28 (turnover test) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (5)—

3.2.a

in paragraph (a)—

3.2.a.i

for “sum” substitute  “sums” ;

3.2.a.ii

after “section 23(1)(b)” insert  “, (2)(c) and  (4E) ” ;

3.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “sum is” substitute  “sums are” .

3.3

In subsection (6)—

3.3.a

after “section 23(1)(b)” insert  “, (2)(c) or  (4E) ” ;

3.3.b

for “the sum” substitute  “any of the sums” .

4

In Chapter 2 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: public interest cases), in section
58A (construction of consideration specified in section 58(2C)), in subsection
(1), for “section 58 and this section” substitute  “this Part” .

5

Chapter 3 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: other special cases) is amended as
follows.

6

6.1

Section 59 (intervention by Secretary of State in special public interest
cases) is amended as follows.

6.2

For subsections (3) and (3A) substitute—

6.2.3

For the purposes of this Part, a special merger situation has been created if—

6.2.3.a

two or more enterprises have ceased to be distinct enterprises at a time or in
circumstances falling within section 24;

6.2.3.b

no relevant merger situation has been created; and

6.2.3.c

immediately before the enterprises concerned ceased to be distinct, one or
more of the conditions mentioned in subsections (3C) to  (3F)  were satisfied.

6.3

After subsection (3D) insert—

6.3.3E

The condition mentioned in this subsection is that a relevant merger situation
would have been created if, in subsection (1) of section 23—

6.3.3E.a

the “and” at the end of paragraph (a) were omitted;

6.3.3E.b

for paragraph (b) there were substituted—

6.3.3E.b.b

one of the enterprises concerned is a media enterprise or a newspaper
enterprise; and

;

6.3.3E.c

after that paragraph there were inserted—

6.3.3E.c.c

the value of the turnover in the United Kingdom of the enterprise being taken
over exceeds £70 million.

6.3.3F

The condition mentioned in this subsection is that a relevant merger situation
would have been created if, for section 23(2)(c), there were substituted—

6.3.3F.c

one of the enterprises concerned is a media enterprise or a newspaper
enterprise.

6.4

In subsection (5), after “deciding” insert  “whether two or more enterprises
have ceased to be distinct at a time or in circumstances falling within
section 24,”

6.5

In subsection (6A), for the words from “amend” to the end substitute

—

6.5.a

substitute a new sum for the sum for the time being mentioned in  subsection
(3E) (c) ;

6.5.b

amend the conditions mentioned in subsections (3C), (3D),  (3E) (b)  and  (3F)
.

7

7.1

Schedule 5A (energy network mergers affecting comparative regulation:
modifications of Chapter 1 of Part 3) is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph 2 (modifications of section 23), in paragraph (a), in the
substituted text, for  “£70 million”  substitute “£100 million”.

7.3

In paragraph 3 (modifications of section 28), for paragraphs (b) and (c)
substitute—

7.3.b

in subsection (5)—

7.3.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “The CMA shall” there were substituted
“The CMA and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority must each” ;

7.3.b.ii

in paragraph (a), for “the sums for the time being mentioned in section
23(1)(b), (2)(c) and (4E)” there were substituted  “the sum for the time being
mentioned in section 23(1)(b)” ;

7.3.b.iii

in paragraph (b), for “sums are” there were substituted  “sum is” ;

7.3.c

in subsection (6)—

7.3.c.i

for “section 23(1)(b), (2)(c) and (4E)” there were substituted  “paragraph
2(a) of Schedule 5A” ;

7.3.c.ii

for “sums” there were substituted  “sum” .

8

Chapter 5 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: supplementary) is amended as follows.

9

9.1

Section 123 (power to alter share of supply test) is amended as follows.

9.2

In the heading, for “share of supply test” substitute  “conditions for a
relevant merger situation” .

9.3

In subsection (2), at the end insert—

9.3.c

to amend or replace the condition mentioned in  paragraph (a)  of  subsection
(4C)  of that section.

9.4

After subsection (3) insert—

9.4.3A

In exercising the power under subsection (1) to amend or replace the condition
mentioned in subsection  (4D)  or  (4E)  of section 23 or any condition which
for the time being applies instead of it, the Secretary of State must, in
particular, have regard to the desirability of ensuring that any amended or
new condition continues to operate by reference to the degree of commercial
strength that at least one of the enterprises concerned would have had if the
enterprises concerned had not ceased to be distinct enterprises.

10

In section 130 (index of defined expressions), in the appropriate place
insert—

    Media enterprise Section 58A(1)

.

  Mergers: fast-track references under sections 22 and 33 of EA 2002

Section 128

1

Chapter 1 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: duty to make references) is amended
as follows.

2

2.1

Section 22 (duty to make references in relation to completed mergers) is
amended as follows.

2.2

After subsection (1) insert—

2.2.1A

The CMA must make a reference to its chair for the constitution of a group
under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 if the CMA
has decided, under  section 34ZF (2) , to accept a fast-track reference
request.

2.3

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “this section”
substitute  “subsection (1)” .

2.4

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for “this section”
substitute  “subsection (1)” .

3

3.1

Section 33 (duty to make references in relation to anticipated mergers) is
amended as follows.

3.2

After subsection (1) insert—

3.2.1A

The CMA must make a reference to its chair for the constitution of a group
under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 if the CMA
has decided, under  section 34ZF (3) , to accept a fast-track reference
request.

3.3

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “this section”
substitute  “subsection (1)” .

3.4

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for “this section”
substitute  “subsection (1)” .

4

4.1

Section 34ZA (time-limits for decisions about references) is amended as
follows.

4.2

In subsection (1)—

4.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “section 22 or 33” substitute  “section
22(1) or 33(1)” ;

4.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “the section” substitute  “the subsection” .

4.3

After that subsection insert—

4.3.1A

In carrying out its function of making a reference under section 22 (1A)  or
33 (1A) , the CMA must, within the initial period, inform the persons carrying
on the enterprises concerned by notice of the making of the reference.

4.4

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “section 22 or 33”
substitute  “section 22(1) or 33(1)” .

5

In section 34ZB (extension of time-limits), in subsection (1), for “mentioned
in” substitute  “for the purposes of” .

6

In section 34ZC (sections 34ZA and 34ZB: supplementary), in subsection (1),
for “period mentioned in” substitute  “initial period for the purposes of” .

7

After section 34ZC (sections 34ZA and 34ZB: supplementary) insert—

######## Fast-track reference requests

7.34ZD

7.34ZD.1

Subsection (2)  applies where the following conditions are met—

7.34ZD.1.a

arrangements or proposed arrangements might have resulted or might result in
the creation of a relevant merger situation (the “arrangements concerned”),

7.34ZD.1.b

no reference has been made under section 22 or 33 in respect of the
arrangements concerned, and

7.34ZD.1.c

the CMA has not informed the persons carrying on the enterprises concerned of
a decision that the duty to make a reference under section 22(1) or 33(1) does
not apply in respect of those arrangements.

7.34ZD.2

The persons carrying on the enterprises concerned may make a fast-track
reference request to the CMA at any time before the end of the initial period
(whether or not that period has begun).

7.34ZD.3

In this section and in  sections 34ZE  and  34ZF , “ fast-track reference
request ” means a request that the CMA makes a reference under section 22 (1A)
or 33 (1A)  in relation to the arrangements concerned.

######## Fast-track reference requests: procedure

7.34ZE

7.34ZE.1

This section applies where a fast-track reference request is made and not
withdrawn.

7.34ZE.2

Where the fast-track reference request is made before the beginning of the
initial period, the CMA may, at any time before the beginning of that period,
reject the request.

7.34ZE.3

Where the CMA has not rejected the fast-track reference request in accordance
with  subsection (2) , the CMA must, within the decision period, decide
whether to accept the request in accordance with  section 34ZF  or reject the
request.

7.34ZE.4

Where the CMA accepts or rejects a fast-track reference request, the CMA must
notify the persons carrying on the enterprises concerned that the request has
been accepted or rejected.

7.34ZE.5

In this section—

      “ decision period ” means, in relation to the arrangements concerned—
in a case where the initial period has not begun, that period, or           in
a case where the initial period has begun, the period beginning with the day
on which the fast-track reference request is made and ending at the end of the
initial period;                 “ initial period ” has the meaning given by
section 34ZA(3).

######## Acceptance by the CMA of fast-track reference requests

7.34ZF

7.34ZF.1

The CMA may accept a fast-track reference request only if the condition in
subsection (2)  or  (3)  is met.

7.34ZF.2

The condition in this subsection is that, in relation to the arrangements
concerned—

7.34ZF.2.a

the CMA believes that it is or may be the case that a relevant merger
situation has been created, and

7.34ZF.2.b

the CMA would not be prevented from making a reference under section 22(1) by
reason of section 22(3).

7.34ZF.3

The condition in this subsection is that, in relation to the arrangements
concerned—

7.34ZF.3.a

the CMA believes that it is or may be the case that, if carried into effect,
the arrangements will result in the creation of a relevant merger situation,
and

7.34ZF.3.b

the CMA would not be prevented from making a reference under section 33(1) by
reason of section 33(3).

7.34ZF.4

In deciding whether to accept a fast-track reference request under  subsection
(2)  or  (3) , the CMA must have regard, in particular, to—

7.34ZF.4.a

whether the arrangements concerned raise any consideration specified in
section 58;

7.34ZF.4.b

whether a special intervention notice (see section 59(2)) is in force in
relation to the arrangements.

7.34ZF.5

Where the CMA decides to accept a fast-track reference request the duties to
make references under sections 22(1) and 33(1) do not apply, and accordingly
the CMA may not make any reference under those provisions in respect of the
arrangements concerned (but see the duties under sections 22 (1A)  and 33 (1A)
).

8

8.1

Section 39 (time-limits for investigations and reports) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (3), after “section 38” insert  “on a reference under section
22(1) or 33(1)” .

8.3

After that subsection insert—

8.3.3A

The CMA may extend, by no more than 11 weeks, the period within which a report
under section 38 on a reference under section 22 (1A)  or 33 (1A)  is to be
prepared and published if it considers that there are special reasons why the
report cannot be prepared and published within that period.

8.4

In subsection (7), after “(3)” insert  “,  (3A) ” .

9

9.1

Section 40 (section 39: supplementary) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (4), after “section 39(3)” insert  “or  (3A) ” .

9.3

In subsection (5), before “or (4)” insert  “,  (3A) ” .

10

10.1

In Chapter 3 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: other special cases), Schedule 5A
(energy network mergers affecting comparative regulation: modifications of
Chapter 1 of Part 3) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 1 (general modifications), in sub-paragraph (2), for the words
after “include” substitute

—

10.2.a

a reference made under a subsection of that section;

10.2.b

a reference treated as made under that section.

10.3

For paragraph 5 (time limits for decisions about references) substitute—

10.3.5

Section 34ZA (time-limits for decisions about references) has effect as if—

10.3.5.a

in subsection (1)(a)—

10.3.5.a.i

the reference to section 22(2) were to section 68B(2);

10.3.5.a.ii

the reference to section 22(3) were to section 68B(3);

10.3.5.a.iii

the reference to section 33(2) were to section 68C(2);

10.3.5.a.iv

the reference to section 33(3) were to section 68C(3);

10.3.5.b

section (1A) were omitted.

10.3.5A

Chapter 1 has effect as if sections 34ZD to 34ZF (fast-track reference
requests) were omitted.

10.4

After paragraph 7 insert—

########## Time-limits for investigations and reports

10.4.7A

Section 39 (time-limits for investigations and reports) has effect as if
subsection (3A) were omitted.

11

11.1

In Chapter 4 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: enforcement), section 73
(undertakings in lieu of references under section 22 or 33) is amended as
follows.

11.2

In the heading, for “section 22, 33” substitute  “section 22(1), 33(1)” .

11.3

In subsection (1), for “section 22 or 33” substitute  “section 22(1) or 33(1)”
.

12

Chapter 5 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: supplementary) is amended as follows.

13

In section 104 (certain duties of relevant authorities to consult), in
subsection (6), in the definition of “relevant decision”, in paragraph (a)—

13.a

in sub-paragraph (i), for “section 22, 33” substitute  “section 22(1), 33(1)”
;

13.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “such a reference” substitute  “a reference under
section 22, 33, 68B or 68C” .

14

14.1

Section 107 (further publicity requirements) is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1)—

14.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “section 22, 33” substitute  “section 22(1), 33(1)” ;

14.2.b

after paragraph (aa) insert—

14.2.b.aaa

any decision made by it to accept a fast-track reference request under
section 34ZD  and the resulting reference made by it;

.

14.3

In subsection (6), after “in relation to” insert

—

14.3.a

any decision published under subsection (1) (aaa) , or

14.3.b



.

15

In section 130 (interpretation), in the appropriate place insert—

    Fast-track reference request section 34ZD (3)

.

  Mergers of energy network enterprises

Section 129

1

Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers) is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 22 (duty to make references in relation to completed mergers) is
amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (3)(c) omit “or 68B or 68C”.

2.3

In subsection (7)(a) omit “, 68B or 68C”.

3

In section 33(3) (circumstances in which references in relation to anticipated
mergers may not be made), in paragraph (c) omit “or 68B or 68C”.

4

In section 68B (further duty to make references in relation to completed
mergers), for subsection (3) substitute—

4.3

The CMA may not make a reference under this section—

4.3.a

in any circumstances mentioned in section 22(3)(za) to (b) or (d), or

4.3.b

if the relevant merger situation concerned is being, or has been, dealt with
in connection with a reference made under section 68C.

5

In section 68C (further duty to make references in relation to anticipated
mergers), for subsection (3) substitute—

5.3

The CMA may not make a reference under this section—

5.3.a

in any circumstances mentioned in section 33(3)(za) to (b) or (d), or

5.3.b

if the arrangements concerned are being, or have been, dealt with in
connection with a reference under section 68B.

6

6.1

In section 72 (initial enforcement orders: completed or anticipated mergers),
subsection (6) is amended as follows.

6.2

For the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “So far as made in relation to
a reference under section 22, 33, 68B or 68C, an order under this section
which has not previously ceased to be in force and which has not been adopted
under paragraph 2 of Schedule 7 ceases to be in force in relation to the
reference concerned—” .

6.3

In paragraph (a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i) omit “under section
22, 33, 68B or 68C”.

7

7.1

Section 73 (undertakings in lieu of references under section 22, 33, 68B or
68C) is amended as follows.

7.2

For subsection (3B) substitute—

7.2.3B

The CMA may, instead of making such a reference and for the purpose of
remedying, mitigating or preventing—

7.2.3B.a

the prejudice to the ability of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority
described in section 68B(1) or 68C(1), or

7.2.3B.b

any adverse effect which has or may have resulted from it or may be expected
to result from it,

accept from such of the parties concerned as it considers appropriate
undertakings to take such action as it considers appropriate.

7.3

In subsection (3C), after “to the prejudice” insert  “and any adverse effects
resulting from it” .

8

In section 73A (time-limits for consideration of undertakings), in subsection
(2)(a), after “73(2)” insert  “or  (3B) ” .

9

9.1

Section 74 (effect of undertakings under section 73) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)—

9.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “, 45, 68B or 68C” substitute  “or 45”
;

9.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “section 73” substitute  “section 73(2)” .

9.3

After subsection (1) insert—

9.3.1A

The relevant authority may not make a reference under section 45, 68B or 68C
in relation to the creation of a relevant merger situation if—

9.3.1A.a

the CMA has accepted an undertaking or group of undertakings under section
73(3B), and

9.3.1A.b

the relevant merger situation is the situation by reference to which the
undertaking or group of undertakings was accepted.

9.4

In subsection (2), for “Subsection (1) does not” substitute  “Subsections (1)
and  (1A)  do not” .

10

10.1

Section 75 (order-making power where undertakings under section 73 not
fulfilled etc) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (a), for “section 73” substitute  “section
73(2) or  (3B) ” .

10.3

In subsection (2), after “73(2)” insert  “or  (3B)  (as the case may be)” .

10.4

For subsection (3) substitute—

10.4.3A

In proceeding under subsection (2) for the purposes mentioned in section 73(2)
or (3B), the CMA must, in particular, have regard to the need to achieve as
comprehensive a solution as is reasonable and practicable to—

10.4.3A.a

in relation to the purpose mentioned in section 73(2), the substantial
lessening of competition mentioned in that subsection and any adverse effects
resulting from it;.

10.4.3A.b

in relation to the purpose mentioned in section 73(3B), the prejudice
mentioned in that subsection and any adverse effects resulting from it.

10.4.3B

In proceeding under subsection (2) for the purposes mentioned in section 73(2)
or (3B), the CMA may, in particular, have regard to the effect of any action
on any relevant customer benefits in relation to the creation of the relevant
merger situation concerned.

11

11.1

Section 79 (sections 77 and 78: further interpretative provisions) is amended
as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1), for paragraphs (c) to (e) substitute—

11.2.c

the report of the CMA under that section contains the decision that—

11.2.c.i

in relation to a reference under section 22 or 33, there is not an anti-
competitive outcome, or

11.2.c.ii

in relation to a reference under section 68B or 68C, there is not a
prejudicial outcome;

11.2.d

the report of the CMA under that section contains the decision that—

11.2.d.i

in relation to a reference under section 22 or 33, there is an anti-
competitive outcome, or

11.2.d.ii

in relation to a reference under section 68B or 68C, there is a prejudicial
outcome, and

the CMA has decided under section 41(2) neither to accept an undertaking under
section 82 nor to make an order under section 84;

11.2.e

the report of the CMA under that section contains the decision that—

11.2.e.i

in relation to a reference under section 22 or 33, there is an anti-
competitive outcome, or

11.2.e.ii

in relation to a reference under section 68B or 68C, there is a prejudicial
outcome, and

the CMA has decided under section 41(2) to accept an undertaking under section
82 or to make an order under section 84.

11.3

After subsection (5) insert—

11.3.5A

References in subsection (1) to a prejudicial outcome are to a prejudicial
outcome within the meaning of section 35 or 36 as those sections have effect
by virtue of paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 5A.

12

12.1

Schedule 5A (energy network mergers affecting comparative regulation:
modifications of Chapter 1 of Part 3) is amended as follows.

12.2

After paragraph 1 insert—

########## Meaning of “the decision-making authority”

12.2.1A

Section 22(7)(a) (meaning of “ the decision-making authority ”) has effect as
if after “section 33” there were inserted  “, 68B or 68C” .

12.3

In paragraph 5 (time limits for decisions about references)—

12.3.a

for paragraph (b) substitute—

12.3.a.b

the reference to section 22(3) were to section 68B(3);

;

12.3.b

for paragraph (d) substitute—

12.3.b.d

the reference to section 33(3) were to section 68C(3).

13

13.1

Schedule 16 to the Energy Act 2023 (mergers of completed energy network
enterprises) is amended as follows.

13.2

Omit paragraphs 5 and 6 (amendments to sections 22 and 33 of EA 2002).

13.3

Omit paragraph 14(2) (amendment to section 74(1) of EA 2002).

  Mergers involving newspaper enterprises and foreign powers

Section 130

##### Introduction

1

In EA 2002, Part 3 (mergers) is amended as follows.

##### Prohibition on newspaper enterprise mergers involving foreign powers

2

After Chapter 3 insert—

######### Mergers involving newspaper enterprises and foreign powers

########## Intervention by the Secretary of State

2.70A

2.70A.1

The Secretary of State must give the CMA a notice (a “foreign state
intervention notice”) if the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that it is or may be the case that—

2.70A.1.a

a foreign state newspaper merger situation has been created, or

2.70A.1.b

arrangements are in progress or in contemplation which, if carried into
effect, will result in the creation of a foreign state newspaper merger
situation.

2.70A.2

A foreign state intervention notice must describe the foreign state newspaper
merger situation to which it relates.

2.70A.3

For the purposes of this Chapter a foreign state newspaper merger situation
has been created where—

2.70A.3.a

as a result of two or more enterprises ceasing to be distinct, a relevant
merger situation would have been created by virtue of section 23(1) if the
modifications in  Schedule 6A  had effect,

2.70A.3.b

one of the enterprises concerned is a newspaper enterprise, and

2.70A.3.c

as a result of the enterprises ceasing to be distinct, a foreign power is able
to control or influence the policy of the person carrying on the newspaper
enterprise, or is able to control or influence that policy to a greater
extent.

2.70A.4

Schedule 6B  makes provision about the circumstances in which a foreign power
is able to control or influence the policy of a person for the purposes of
this section (and references to a foreign power being able to control or
influence the policy of a person to a greater extent are to be interpreted
accordingly).

2.70A.5

A foreign state intervention notice—

2.70A.5.a

comes into force when it is given, and

2.70A.5.b

ceases to be in force when the matter to which it relates is finally
determined under this Chapter (see  section 70F ).

########## Investigation and report by the CMA

2.70B

2.70B.1

Where the Secretary of State gives the CMA a foreign state intervention
notice, the CMA must, within such period as the Secretary of State may
require, give the Secretary of State a report in relation to the case.

2.70B.2

The report must include—

2.70B.2.a

a summary of representations relevant to the case that have been received by
the CMA, and

2.70B.2.b

a decision as to whether the CMA believes that—

2.70B.2.b.i

a foreign state newspaper merger situation has been created, or

2.70B.2.b.ii

arrangements are in progress or in contemplation which, if carried into
effect, will result in the creation of a foreign state newspaper merger
situation.

2.70B.3

The CMA must carry out such investigations as it considers appropriate for the
purposes of producing a report under this section.

2.70B.4

For the purposes of its investigation the CMA must invite representations from
the enterprises concerned in the case.

########## Intervention to prevent foreign control of a newspaper enterprise

2.70C

2.70C.1

Subsection (2)  applies where the Secretary of State has received a report
under  section 70B  stating that the CMA believes that—

2.70C.1.a

a foreign state newspaper merger situation has been created, or

2.70C.1.b

arrangements are in progress or in contemplation which, if carried into
effect, will result in the creation of a foreign state newspaper merger
situation.

2.70C.2

The Secretary of State must make an order containing such provision as the
Secretary of State considers reasonable and practicable for the purposes of
reversing or preventing the creation of the foreign state newspaper merger
situation identified in the report.

2.70C.3

An order under  subsection (2)  may contain—

2.70C.3.a

anything permitted by Schedule 8 (provision that may be contained in certain
enforcement orders), and

2.70C.3.b

such supplementary, consequential or incidental provision as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.

2.70C.4

An order under  subsection (2) —

2.70C.4.a

comes into force at such time as is determined by or under the order, and

2.70C.4.b

may be varied or revoked by another order.

2.70C.5

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 7 (enforcement regime for public interest and special
public interest cases: order for the purposes of preventing pre-emptive
action)—

2.70C.5.a

applies in relation to a foreign state intervention notice as it applies in
relation to an intervention notice, and

2.70C.5.b

for this purpose, is to be read as if—

2.70C.5.b.i

sub-paragraph (10) were omitted;

2.70C.5.b.ii

for sub-paragraph (12), there were substituted—

2.70C.5.b.ii.12

In this paragraph “ pre-emptive action ” means action which might prejudice a
foreign state intervention notice or a report under  section 70B , or might
impede the taking of any action under this Part in relation to such a notice
or report

.

########## Other powers under this Part

2.70D

2.70D.1

Nothing in this Chapter limits the exercise of powers in relation to a foreign
state newspaper merger situation under other provisions of this Part.

2.70D.2

The powers in this Chapter may be exercised in relation to a foreign state
newspaper merger situation regardless of whether any other power under this
Part has been exercised in relation to the case.

2.70D.3

The CMA must, in considering whether to make a reference under section 22 or
33, bring to the attention of the Secretary of State any case which it
believes may be relevant to the duty in  section 70A (1) .

########## Meaning of “foreign power”

2.70E

2.70E.1

In this Chapter, “ foreign power ” means—

2.70E.1.a

the sovereign or other head of a foreign state in their public or private
capacity,

2.70E.1.b

a foreign government or part of a foreign government,

2.70E.1.c

the head or senior members of a foreign government in their private capacity,

2.70E.1.d

an agency or authority of a foreign government, or of part of a foreign
government,

2.70E.1.e

the head or senior members of an agency or authority of a foreign government,
or of part of a foreign government, in their private capacity,

2.70E.1.f

an authority responsible for administering the affairs of an area within a
foreign country or territory, or persons exercising the functions of such an
authority,

2.70E.1.g

a political party which is a governing political party of a foreign
government, or

2.70E.1.h

the officers of a political party, which is a governing political party of a
foreign government, in their private capacity.

2.70E.2

A political party is a governing political party of a foreign government if
persons holding political or official posts in the foreign government or part
of the foreign government—

2.70E.2.a

hold those posts as a result of, or in the course of, their membership of the
party, or

2.70E.2.b

in exercising the functions of those posts, are subject to the direction or
control of, or significantly influenced by, the party.

2.70E.3

In this section—

      “ foreign country or territory ” means a country or territory outside
the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or the British
Overseas Territories;           “ foreign government ” means the government of
a foreign country or territory;           a “ government ” includes persons
exercising the functions of a government;           “ territory ” includes the
constituent territories of a federal state.

########## Other interpretation

2.70F

2.70F.1

For the purposes of this Chapter, section 44(10) is to be read as if the
definition of “newspaper” included a news publication circulating wholly or
mainly in the United Kingdom or in a part of the United Kingdom on any
periodic basis.

2.70F.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, a matter is finally determined when the
Secretary of State—

2.70F.2.a

makes an order under  section 70C (2) , or

2.70F.2.b

publishes under section 107 a report of the CMA under  section 70B  which the
Secretary of State has received and which states that the CMA has decided that
the CMA believes that—

2.70F.2.b.i

no foreign state newspaper merger situation has been created, or

2.70F.2.b.ii

no arrangements are in progress or in contemplation which, if carried into
effect would result in the creation of a foreign state newspaper merger
situation.

########## Regulations

2.70G

2.70G.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations change the meaning of—

2.70G.1.a

“foreign power”, or

2.70G.1.b

“newspaper”,

for the purposes of this Chapter.

2.70G.2

Regulations under  subsection (1) (a)  may, among other things—

2.70G.2.a

provide for a description of person to be treated as if they were not a
foreign power, and

2.70G.2.b

frame any such description by reference to—

2.70G.2.b.i

the independence of persons from other descriptions of foreign power, or

2.70G.2.b.ii

the interest which persons have in a newspaper enterprise.

2.70G.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations apply any provision made by or under
Chapter 1, with or without modifications, for the purposes of this Chapter
(including by way of amendments to the modifications in  Schedule 6A ).

2.70G.4

Regulations under this section may, among other things, make provision having
effect on or after 13 March 2024.

3

After Schedule 6 insert—

  Determination of when a foreign state newspaper merger situation has been
created

Section 70A

########### Application of sections 23 to 29

3.1

3.1.1

Sections 23 to 29 apply for the purposes of  Chapter 3A  of Part 1, subject to
the following modifications.

3.1.2

Section 23 is to be read as if—

3.1.2.a

in subsection (1), for the amount in paragraph (b), there were substituted
“£2 million” ;

3.1.2.b

in subsection (9), for paragraphs (a) and (b), there were substituted—

3.1.2.b.a

in relation to the giving of a foreign state intervention notice, the time
when the notice is given;

3.1.2.b.b

in relation to the giving of a report by the CMA under  section 70B , the time
of the giving of the report.

3.1.3

Section 24 is to be read as if—

3.1.3.a

for subsection (1)(a) there were substituted—

3.1.3.a.a

the two or more enterprises ceased to be distinct enterprises before the day
on which—

3.1.3.a.a.i

in a case to which section 23(9)(a) applies, the foreign state intervention
notice relating to them is given, or

3.1.3.a.a.ii

in a case to which section 23(9)(b) applies, the CMA gives its report relating
to them under  section 70B ,

and did so not more than four months before that day; or

;

3.1.3.b

in subsection (1)(b), after “distinct enterprises” there were inserted  “,
including facts about whether or the extent to which a foreign power is able
to control or influence the policy of a person carrying on a newspaper
enterprise as a result of the enterprises ceasing to be distinct enterprises,”
;

3.1.3.c

the reference to the CMA in subsection (2)(a) included a reference to the
Secretary of State;

3.1.3.d

for subsection (2)(b) there were substituted—

3.1.3.d.b

it is given to the Secretary of State or the CMA more than four months before
the day on which—

3.1.3.d.b.i

in a case to which section 23(9)(a) applies, the foreign state intervention
notice relating to them is given, or

3.1.3.d.b.ii

in a case to which section 23(9)(b) applies, the CMA gives its report relating
to them under  section 70B ; or

3.1.3.d.c

the facts are made public more than four months before the day on which—

3.1.3.d.c.i

in a case to which section 23(9)(a) applies, the foreign state intervention
notice relating to them is given, or

3.1.3.d.c.ii

in a case to which section 23(9)(b) applies, the CMA gives its report relating
to them under  section 70B .

.

3.1.4

Section 25 is to be read as if—

3.1.4.a

subsections (4) and (5) were omitted;

3.1.4.b

the powers to extend time-limits under section 25 were not exercisable by the
CMA before the giving of a foreign state intervention notice by the Secretary
of State.

3.1.5

Section 26 is to be read as if—

3.1.5.a

in subsection (3)—

3.1.5.a.i

“materially” were omitted;

3.1.5.a.ii

for “may, for the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), be treated” there were
substituted  “is to be treated, for the purposes of subsections (1) and (2),”
;

3.1.5.b

for subsection (4) there were substituted—

3.1.5.b.4

For the purposes of subsection (1), in so far as it relates to bringing two or
more enterprises under common control, where a foreign power is already able
to control or influence the policy of a person carrying on a newspaper
enterprise to some extent, the foreign power is to be treated as bringing the
newspaper enterprise under its control if anything is done which results in
the foreign power being able to control or influence the policy of that person
to a greater extent (whether by virtue of acquiring more shares or voting
rights in the person, directly or indirectly, or otherwise).

3.1.6

Section 27 is to be read as if—

3.1.6.a

references to the “ decision-making authority ” were to “the CMA or the
Secretary of State”;

3.1.6.b

in subsection (5), for “a reference” there were substituted  “deciding whether
or when a foreign state newspaper merger situation has been created” .

3.1.7

Section 28 is to be read as if, in subsection (4), the reference to the “
decision-making authority ” were to “the CMA or the Secretary of State”.

3.1.8

Section 29 is to be read as if—

3.1.8.a

in subsection (1)—

3.1.8.a.i

the reference to the “ decision-making authority ” were to “the CMA or the
Secretary of State”;

3.1.8.a.ii

for “a reference” there were substituted  “deciding whether or when a foreign
state newspaper merger situation has been created” ;

3.1.8.b

in subsection (2)(a)(i) “materially” were omitted;

3.1.8.c

in subsection (2)(a)(ii), for “degree” there were substituted  “extent” ;

3.1.8.d

subsection (2)(b) and (3) were omitted.

########### Application of the Enterprise Act 2002 (Anticipated Mergers) Order 2003 (

3.2

3.2.1

The Enterprise Act 2002 (Anticipated Mergers) Order 2003 applies for the
purposes of  Chapter 3A  of Part 1, subject to the following modifications.

3.2.2

In Article 3, the words before paragraph (a) are to be read as if, for “in
relation to references and notices”, there were substituted  “for the purposes
of  Chapter 3A  of Part 1 of the Act” .

3.2.3

Article 3(a) is to be read as if—

3.2.3.a

in the substituted version of section 27(5), for  “a reference”  there were
substituted “deciding whether or when a foreign state news paper merger
situation will be created”;

3.2.3.b

the substituted version of section 27(6)(a)(i), for “the reference” there were
substituted  “the foreign state intervention notice relating to the situation”
.

3.2.4

Article 3(b) is to be read as if—

3.2.4.a

in the substituted section 29(2)(a)(i),  “materially”  were omitted;

3.2.4.b

in the substituted section 29(2)(a)(ii), for  “degree”  there were substituted
“extent”;

3.2.4.c

in the substituted section 29(4), for  “the reference”  there were substituted
“the foreign state intervention notice”.

  Control or influence of a person by a foreign power

Section 70A

########### Conditions for control or influence

3.1

3.1.1

A foreign power is able to control or influence the policy of a person for the
purposes of  section 70A  if one or more of the following conditions is met.

3.1.2

Condition 1 is that the foreign power holds, directly or indirectly, any of
the shares in the person.

3.1.3

Condition 2 is that the foreign power holds, directly or indirectly, any of
the voting rights in the person.

3.1.4

Condition 3 is that the foreign power holds the right, directly or indirectly,
to appoint or remove an officer of the person.

3.1.5

Condition 4 is that the foreign power has the right or ability to direct,
control or influence to any extent, the person’s policy or activities (in
whole or in part, and whether directly or indirectly), despite not meeting
condition 1, 2 or 3.

3.1.6

Condition 5 is that—

3.1.6.a

the trustees of a trust, or the members of a partnership, unincorporated
association or other entity, that is not a legal person under the law by which
it is governed, would, if they were a foreign power, meet one or more of
conditions 1 to 4 (in their capacity as such) in relation to the person, and

3.1.6.b

the foreign power has the right or ability to direct, control or influence to
any extent the activities of that trust or entity (in whole or in part, and
whether directly or indirectly), or has any other interest in, or right over
or in relation to, the trust or entity, or any of the trustees of the trust or
the members of the entity, whether directly or indirectly.

3.2

In this Schedule, “officer”—

3.2.a

in relation to a body corporate, means a director, member of the committee of
management, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
the body, or a person purporting to act in any such capacity;

3.2.b

in relation to a partnership, means a partner, a person purporting to act as a
partner or a person concerned in the management or control of the partnership
or who purports to act in the capacity of a person so concerned;

3.2.c

in relation to an unincorporated association other than a partnership, means a
person who is concerned in the management or control of the association or
purports to act in the capacity of a person so concerned.

########### Interpretation

############ Interpretation

3.3

This Part makes provision about the interpretation of this Schedule.

############ Joint interests

3.4

If a foreign power holds a share or right jointly with another person (whether
or not a foreign power), each of those persons is to be taken to hold that
share or right.

############ Joint arrangements

3.5

3.5.1

If shares or rights held by a foreign power and shares or rights held by
another person (whether or not a foreign power) are the subject of a joint
arrangement between those persons, each of those persons is to be taken to
hold the combined shares or rights of both persons.

3.5.2

A “joint arrangement” is an arrangement between the holders of shares (or
rights) that they will exercise all or substantially all the rights conferred
by their respective shares (or rights) jointly in a way that is pre-determined
by the arrangement.

3.5.3

For the meaning of “arrangement”, see paragraph 12.

############ Calculating shareholdings

3.6

3.6.1

In relation to a person that has a share capital, a reference to holding any
of the shares in that person is to holding any shares comprised in the issued
share capital of that person.

3.6.2

In relation to a person that does not have a share capital, a reference to
holding any of the shares in that person is to holding a right to share to any
extent in the capital or, as the case may be, profits of that person.

############ Voting rights

3.7

3.7.1

A reference to the voting rights in a person is to the rights conferred on
shareholders in respect of their shares (or, in the case of a person not
having a share capital, on members) to vote at general meetings of the person
on all or substantially all matters.

3.7.2

In relation to a person that does not have general meetings at which matters
are decided by the exercise of voting rights, a reference to exercising voting
rights in the person is to be read as a reference to exercising rights in
relation to the person that are equivalent to those of a person entitled to
exercise voting rights in a company.

3.8

In applying this Schedule, voting rights in a person held by the person itself
are to be disregarded.

############ Shares or rights held “indirectly”

3.9

3.9.1

A foreign power holds a share “indirectly” if the foreign power has any stake
in a person and that person—

3.9.1.a

holds the share in question, or

3.9.1.b

is part of a chain of persons—

3.9.1.b.i

each of which (other than the last) has any stake in the person immediately
below it in the chain, and

3.9.1.b.ii

the last of which holds the share.

3.9.2

A foreign power holds a right “indirectly” if the foreign power has any stake
in a person and that person—

3.9.2.a

holds that right, or

3.9.2.b

is part of a chain of persons—

3.9.2.b.i

each of which (other than the last) has any stake in the person immediately
below it in the chain, and

3.9.2.b.ii

the last of which holds that right.

3.9.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraphs (1)  and  (2) , a person (“ A ”) has “any
stake” in another person (“ B ”) if—

3.9.3.a

A holds any shares or voting rights in B,

3.9.3.b

A is a member of B and has the right to appoint or remove an officer of B,

3.9.3.c

A is a member of B and controls alone, or pursuant to an agreement with other
shareholders or members, any of the voting rights in B, or

3.9.3.d

A has the right or ability to control or influence B to any extent, despite
not being within  paragraph (a) ,  (b)  or  (c) .

############ Shares held by nominees

3.10

A share held by a person as a nominee for another is to be treated as held by
the other (and not by the nominee).

############ Rights treated as held by person who is able to control their exercise

3.11

3.11.1

Where a person controls a right, the right is to be treated as held by that
person (and not by the person who in fact holds the right, unless that person
also controls it).

3.11.2

A person “controls” a right if, by virtue of any arrangement between that
person and others, the right is exercisable only—

3.11.2.a

by that person,

3.11.2.b

in accordance with that person’s directions or instructions, or

3.11.2.c

with that person’s consent or concurrence.

############ Arrangements

3.12

3.12.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, “ arrangement ” includes—

3.12.1.a

any scheme, agreement or understanding, whether or not it is legally
enforceable, and

3.12.1.b

any convention, custom or practice of any kind.

3.12.2

But something does not count as an arrangement unless there is at least some
degree of stability about it (whether by its nature or terms, the time it has
been in existence or otherwise).

############ Rights exercisable only in certain circumstances etc

3.13

3.13.1

Rights that are exercisable only in certain circumstances are to be taken into
account only—

3.13.1.a

where the circumstances have arisen, and for so long as they continue to
obtain, or

3.13.1.b

when the circumstances are within the control of the person having the rights.

3.13.2

But rights that are exercisable by an administrator or by creditors while a
person is in relevant insolvency proceedings are not to be taken into account
even while the person is in those proceedings.

3.13.3

“ Relevant insolvency proceedings ” means—

3.13.3.a

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency Act 1986,

3.13.3.b

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

3.13.3.c

proceedings under the insolvency law of another country or territory during
which a person’s assets and affairs are subject to the control or supervision
of a third party or creditor.

3.13.4

Rights that are normally exercisable but are temporarily incapable of exercise
are to continue to be taken into account.

############ Rights attached to shares held by way of security

3.14

Rights attached to shares held by way of security provided by a person are to
be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as held by that person—

3.14.a

where apart from the right to exercise them for the purpose of preserving the
value of the security, or of realising it, the rights are exercisable only in
accordance with that person’s instructions, and

3.14.b

where the shares are held in connection with the granting of loans as part of
normal business activities and apart from the right to exercise them for the
purpose of preserving the value of the security, or of realising it, the
rights are exercisable only in that person’s interests.

########### Power to amend circumstances in which there is control or influence

3.15

3.15.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

3.15.1.a

to change (by increasing or decreasing) the proportion of shares or rights
which a foreign power must hold in a person carrying on a newspaper
enterprise, whether directly or indirectly, in order for the foreign power to
be able to control or influence the policy of a person for the purposes of
section 70A ;

3.15.1.b

to change (by increasing or decreasing) the proportion of shares or rights
which is to be held by persons in a chain of persons for the purposes of
determining whether shares or rights are held indirectly;

3.15.1.c

about assumptions which are to be made when determining whether a foreign
power is able to control or influence the policy of a person, including
assumptions framed by reference to the ownership of shares or voting rights by
any person;

3.15.1.d

about the extent to which a foreign power needs to be able to control or
influence the policy of a person in order to control or influence that policy
for the purposes of  section 70A , including provision about a foreign power
that is already able to control or influence the policy of a person to some
extent being able to control or influence that policy to a greater extent;

3.15.1.e

to change or supplement  Part 1  of this Schedule so as to include
circumstances (for example, circumstances involving more complex structures)
that give a foreign power a level of control or influence in relation to the
policy of a person broadly similar to the level of control or influence given
by the conditions in paragraph 1;

3.15.1.f

in consequence of any provision made by virtue of  paragraph (e) , to change
or supplement  Part 2  of this Schedule so that circumstances specified in
that Part in which a person is to be regarded as holding an interest in
another person correspond to any of the conditions in paragraph 1, or would do
so but for the extent of the interest.

3.15.2

The provision that may be made under this paragraph, read with section
124(2)(a), includes—

3.15.2.a

different provision for different descriptions of foreign power, and

3.15.2.b

different provision for different persons or descriptions of person in a chain
of persons.

3.15.3

Regulations under this paragraph may, among other things—

3.15.3.a

confer a discretion on the CMA;

3.15.3.b

make provision having effect on or after 13 March 2024.

##### Further amendments

4

4.1

In section 86 (enforcement orders: general provisions), in subsection (6),
after “section” insert  “ 70C ,” .

4.2

In section 88 (contents of certain enforcement orders), in subsection (1),
after “section” insert  “ 70C , ” .

4.3

In section 94(8) (rights to enforce certain orders)—

4.3.a

after “made by the Secretary of State under” insert  “ section 70C (2) ,” ;

4.3.b

for “paragraph 2 of that Schedule” substitute  “paragraph 2 of Schedule 7” .

4.4

In section 107 (further publicity requirements)—

4.4.a

in subsection (3), after paragraph (g) insert—

4.4.a.ga

any foreign state intervention notice given by the Secretary of State;

4.4.a.gb

any report of the CMA under  section 70B  which the Secretary of State has
received;

;

4.4.b

after subsection (11) insert—

4.4.b.12

The Secretary of State must publish any report of the CMA under  section 70B
which the Secretary of State has received within the period of 7 days
beginning with the day on which the Secretary of State receives the report.

4.5

In section 109 (attendance of witnesses and production of documents etc), in
subsection (A1)(b), at the end insert  “or a foreign state intervention notice
under  section 70A ” .

4.6

In section 110A (restriction on powers to impose penalties under section 110),
after subsection (8) insert—

4.6.8A

Where the section 109 power is exercised for the purpose mentioned in section
109(A1)(b) in connection with a matter that is the subject of a foreign state
intervention notice under  section 70A , the relevant day is the day when the
matter to which the notice relates is finally determined under  Chapter 3A
(see  section 70F ).

4.7

In section 118 (excisions from reports), in subsection (1)—

4.7.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (aa), and

4.7.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

4.7.b.c

a report of the CMA under  section 70B .

4.8

In section 120 (review of decisions under Part 3), in subsection (1A), after
paragraph (a) insert—

4.8.aa

a decision of the CMA or the Secretary of State in connection with a foreign
state newspaper merger situation;

.

4.9

In section 124 (orders and regulations under Part 3)—

4.9.a

in subsection (3)—

4.9.a.i

after “59(6A)” insert  “,  70G ” ;

4.9.a.ii

after “above)” insert  “, or  paragraph 15  of  Schedule 6B ,” ;

4.9.b

in subsection (5), after “65(3)),” insert  “ 70C ” ;

4.9.c

after subsection (6) insert—

4.9.c.6A

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  section 70G  or
paragraph 15  of  Schedule 6B  may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House
of Parliament.

;

4.9.d

in subsection (10), after “58(3)” insert  “or  70G , or  paragraph 15  of
Schedule 6B ” .

4.10

In section 127 (associated persons), in subsection (1)—

4.10.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (aa), and

4.10.b

after that paragraph insert—

4.10.b.ab

for the purposes of  section 70A (3) ;

.

4.11

In section 129 (other interpretation provisions), in subsection (1), at the
appropriate place insert—

      “ foreign state intervention notice ” means a notice under  section 70A
(1) ;           “ foreign state newspaper merger situation ” is to be
interpreted in accordance with  section 70A (3) ;

.

4.12

In the table in section 130 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate
place insert—

    Foreign state intervention notice Section 70A (1)   Foreign state
newspaper merger situation Section 70A (3)

4.13

In Schedule 8 (provision that may be contained in certain enforcement orders),
in paragraph 20A (newspaper mergers), after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

4.13.1A

This paragraph also applies in relation to an order under  section 70C (2)
(order to prevent foreign control of a newspaper enterprise).

4.14

In Schedule 10 (procedural requirements for certain enforcement undertakings
and orders)—

4.14.a

in paragraph 1(b), for “section 75” substitute  “ section 70C , 75” ;

4.14.b

in paragraph 6(b), for “section 75” substitute  “ section 70C , 75” .

  Acceptance of undertakings at any stage of a market study or investigation

Section 137

1

Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations) is amended as
follows.

2

2.1

Section 131B (market studies and the making of decisions to refer: time-
limits) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (4), in paragraph (b), after “proposes to take” insert  “, or
has taken,” .

2.3

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), for “section 154 instead of” substitute
“ section 154A  instead of, or in addition to,” .

3

3.1

Section 133A (functions to be exercised by CMA groups) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

3.2.ba

section 154A , so far as relating to undertakings in lieu of a report;

.

3.3

In subsection (2), before paragraph (a) insert—

3.3.za

section 154A , so far as relating to undertakings in lieu of a report;

.

4

In section 136 (investigations and reports on market investigation
references), in subsection (2), after paragraph (a) insert—

4.aa

any decision of the CMA under  section 154A  to accept an undertaking
partially in lieu of a report;

.

5

5.1

Section 139 (public interest intervention by the Secretary of State) is
amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1A), in paragraph (a), for “under section 154” substitute
“fully in lieu of a reference under  section 154A ” .

5.3

In subsection (1B), in paragraph (a), for “under section 154” substitute
“fully in lieu of a reference under  section 154A ” .

5.4

In subsection (2), in paragraph (a), in sub-paragraph (i), for “undertaking
under section 154 instead of making a reference under section 131” substitute
“undertaking in lieu of a reference under  section 154A ” .

5.5

In subsection (4C), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” .

6

6.1

Section 140 (intervention notices under section 139(1)) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (5), in paragraph (za), for “under section 154” to the end
substitute  “fully in lieu of a reference under  section 154A ” .

6.3

In subsection (6A), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” .

7

In section 150 (power of veto of Secretary of State), in subsection (A1) for
“under section 154” substitute  “in lieu of a reference under  section 154A ”
.

8

For section 154 (and the italic heading immediately before it) substitute—

######## Undertakings in lieu

######### Undertakings fully or partially in lieu of references or reports

8.154A

8.154A.1

This section applies where—

8.154A.1.a

no market study notice has been published under section 130A but the CMA
considers that it has the power to make a market investigation reference under
section 131 and (subject to taking action under this section) intends to make
such a reference,

8.154A.1.b

a market study notice has been published under section 130A but no market
investigation reference has been made under section 131, or

8.154A.1.c

a market investigation reference has been made under section 131 or 132 but no
report under section 136 has been published.

8.154A.2

The CMA may accept, from such persons as it considers appropriate,
undertakings to take such action as it considers appropriate for the purposes
of remedying, mitigating or preventing (to any extent)—

8.154A.2.a

any adverse effect on competition concerned, or

8.154A.2.b

any detrimental effect on customers so far as—

8.154A.2.b.i

it has resulted from the adverse effect on competition, or

8.154A.2.b.ii

it may be expected to result from the adverse effect on competition.

8.154A.3

An undertaking under this section is known as—

8.154A.3.a

an “undertaking in lieu of a reference” where it is accepted in circumstances
where this section applies by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) ;

8.154A.3.b

an “undertaking in lieu of a report” where it is accepted in circumstances
where this section applies by virtue of  subsection (1) (c) .

8.154A.4

The CMA may accept—

8.154A.4.a

undertakings in lieu of a reference either—

8.154A.4.a.i

instead of making a reference under section 131 (in which case the
undertakings are known as “undertakings fully in lieu of a reference”), or

8.154A.4.a.ii

in addition to making a reference under that section (in which case the
undertakings are known as “undertakings partially in lieu of a reference”);

8.154A.4.b

undertakings in lieu of a report either—

8.154A.4.b.i

instead of publishing a report under section 136 (in which case the
undertakings are known as “undertakings fully in lieu of a report”), or

8.154A.4.b.ii

in addition to publishing a report under that section (in which case the
undertakings are known as “undertakings partially in lieu of a report”).

8.154A.5

In accepting undertakings fully in lieu of a reference or undertakings fully
in lieu of a report, the CMA must, in particular, have regard to the need to
achieve as comprehensive a solution as is reasonable and practicable to—

8.154A.5.a

the adverse effect on competition concerned, and

8.154A.5.b

any detrimental effects on customers so far as resulting from the adverse
effect on competition.

8.154A.6

In accepting an undertaking under this section, the CMA may, in particular,
have regard to the effect of any action on any relevant customer benefits of
the feature or features of the market or markets concerned.

8.154A.7

Where no detrimental effect on customers has yet resulted from an adverse
effect on competition, the CMA may not accept an undertaking under this
section to remedy, mitigate or prevent a detrimental effect on customers so
far as it may be expected to result from that adverse effect on competition
unless the adverse effect on competition is also being remedied, mitigated or
prevented (whether or not by the same undertaking).

8.154A.8

An undertaking under this section—

8.154A.8.a

comes into force when accepted;

8.154A.8.b

may be varied or superseded by another undertaking;

8.154A.8.c

may be released by the CMA.

8.154A.9

The CMA must, as soon as reasonably practicable, consider any representations
received by it in relation to varying or releasing an undertaking under this
section.

8.154A.10

This section is subject to sections 150 and 155.

9

9.1

Section 155 (undertakings in lieu: procedural requirements) is amended as
follows.

9.2

In subsection (1), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” .

9.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

9.3.3A

The matters to be included in a notice under subsection (1) by virtue of
subsection (2) include, in particular, the adverse effect on competition, and
any detrimental effect on customers so far as resulting from the adverse
effect on competition, which the CMA has identified.

9.4

In subsection (10), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” .

10

10.1

Section 156 (effect of undertakings under section 154) is amended as follows.

10.2

In the heading, for “under section 154” substitute  “in lieu” ;

10.3

In subsection (A1)—

10.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” ;

10.3.b

in paragraph (b)—

10.3.b.i

for “the” in the first place it occurs substitute  “any” ;

10.3.b.ii

for “the same as the” substitute  “a” .

10.4

In subsection (1)—

10.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “under section 154” substitute  “in lieu of a reference
under  section 154A ” ;

10.4.b

omit the “and” after paragraph (a);

10.4.c

after paragraph (a) insert—

10.4.c.ab

any feature or combination of features to which the undertaking or group of
undertakings relates is a feature or combination of features to which the
reference would relate; and

.

10.5

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for “154” substitute  “
154A ” .

10.6

After subsection (3) insert—

10.6.4

Where the CMA has, under  section 154A , accepted an undertaking, or group of
undertakings, in lieu of a report the CMA is not required by virtue of section
134 to make the decisions referred to in subsections (1) and (1A) of that
section in relation to a feature, or features, to which the undertaking, or
group of undertakings, relate.

10.6.5

Accordingly, a report under section 136 is not required, and the duty under
section 138 does not arise, if the CMA accepts an undertaking fully in lieu of
a report.

10.6.6

Instead, where the CMA accepts an undertaking fully in lieu of a report the
CMA must prepare and publish a report containing—

10.6.6.a

the CMA’s decision to accept the undertaking,

10.6.6.b

the reasons for the decision, and

10.6.6.c

such information as the CMA considers appropriate for facilitating a proper
understanding of the decision and its reasons for the decision.

10.6.7

For provision equivalent to  subsection (6)  in the case where the CMA accepts
an undertaking partially in lieu of a report, see section 136(2) (aa) .

11

After section 156 insert—

  Interim undertakings and orders

.

12

After section 158 insert—

  Final undertakings and orders

.

13

13.1

Section 162 (duty of CMA to monitor the carrying out of undertakings and
orders: Part 4) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (4), in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” .

13.3

In subsection (8), in the definition of “enforcement undertaking”, for “154”
substitute  “ 154A ” .

14

In section 169(6) (certain duties of relevant authorities to consult: Part 4),
in paragraph (a)(ia) of the definition of “relevant decision”, for “under
section 154” to the end substitute  “in lieu of a reference under  section
154A ” .

15

15.1

Section 174C (section 174B: supplementary provision) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (3), in paragraph (b), for “under section 154 instead of making
such a reference” substitute  “fully in lieu of a reference under  section
154A ” .

15.3

In subsection (5), for “154” substitute  “ 154A ” .

16

In section 183 (interpretation: Part 4), in subsection (3), in paragraph (a)—

16.a

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (iii);

16.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

16.b.iiia

the CMA has accepted an undertaking fully in lieu of a report under  section
154A ; or

.

17

In Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 (the CMA), in
Part 2 (the CMA Board), in paragraph 29 (delegation), in sub-paragraph (2)(e),
for “under section 154” substitute  “in lieu of a reference under  section
154A ” .

  Final undertakings and orders: power to conduct trials

Section 138

1

Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations) is amended as
follows.

2

2.1

Section 133A (functions to be exercised by CMA groups) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “138B” substitute  “137” ;

2.2.b

after that paragraph insert—

2.2.b.aa

sections 138 to 138B so far as relating to an adverse effect on competition in
respect of which the CMA is required to take action in accordance with section
138(2) within the period permitted by section 138A(1);

;

2.2.c

after paragraph (f) insert—

2.2.c.fa

section 161C ;

.

2.3

In subsection (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

2.3.ca

section 162B ;

.

3

3.1

Section 138A (time-limits for discharging duty under section 138) is amended
as follows.

3.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

3.2.A1

Subsection (A3)  applies in relation to an adverse effect on competition in
respect of which the CMA—

3.2.A1.a

has begun an implementation trial under  section 161C , or

3.2.A1.b

considers that it is not reasonably practicable to discharge its duty under
section 138(2) in accordance with subsection (1) as a result of such an
implementation trial in respect of another adverse effect on competition.

3.2.A2

Subsection (1) applies in relation to any other adverse effect on competition.

3.2.A3

Where this subsection applies, the CMA must discharge its duty under section
138(2) before the day specified under  section 161D (5) (b) (ii) .

3.3

In subsection (1), at the beginning insert  “Where this subsection applies,” .

3.4

In subsection (2), after “discharged” insert  “in accordance with subsection
(1)” .

4

After  section 161A  (acceptance of enforcement undertakings: Part 4)
(inserted by  paragraph 16  of  Schedule 11 ) insert—

######## Implementation trials of final orders and undertakings

######### Implementation trials: purpose and interpretation

4.161B

4.161B.1

This section and  sections 161C  to  161E  make provision in relation to the
acceptance of undertakings and making of orders by a relevant authority on a
trial basis for the purpose of assessing the effectiveness of qualifying
remedial action (and the acceptance of undertakings and making of orders on
that basis is referred to in this Part as an “ implementation trial ”).

4.161B.2

In this section and in  sections 161C  to  161E  “ relevant authority ” means
the CMA or the Secretary of State.

4.161B.3

In this Part—

      “ implementation trial measure ” means an undertaking accepted, or order
made, under  section 161C  (and references to the imposition of such a measure
are to be read as the acceptance of an undertaking or the making of an order,
as the case may be);           “ implementation trial period ” means, in
relation to an implementation trial measure, the period—         beginning
with the day on which the relevant authority begins the implementation trial,
and           ending with the last day on which the implementation trial
measure is to have effect (see  subsections (4)  and  (5) );                 “
qualifying remedial action ” means remedial action in respect of—         a
matter concerning the provision or publication of information to consumers
(whether directly or through an intermediary), or           any other matter
specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State;                 “
relevant adverse effect ” means—         where the relevant authority is the
CMA, an adverse effect on competition identified in the report mentioned in
section 138(1);           where the relevant authority is the Secretary of
State—         an adverse effect on competition identified in the report
mentioned in section 146(1);           an effect adverse to the public
interest identified in the report mentioned in section 146A(1);
“ remedial action ” means an action—         where the relevant authority is
the CMA, to be taken in accordance with section 138(2) or  section 162A (5) ;
where the relevant authority is the Secretary of State, to be taken in
accordance with section 147(2) or 147A(2) (as the case may be).

4.161B.4

The last day on which an implementation trial measure is to have effect is the
earlier of—

4.161B.4.a

the day specified under  section 161D (5) (b) (ii) , and

4.161B.4.b

the day on which action is taken under section 138(2), 147(2) or 147A(2) (as
the case may be) in relation to the relevant adverse effect which the relevant
authority considers concerns the same qualifying matter.

4.161B.5

But where—

4.161B.5.a

an implementation trial measure is imposed in accordance with this section,
and

4.161B.5.b

the CMA extends, under section 138A(3), the period within which its duty under
section 138(2) is required to be discharged in accordance with section 138A
(A3)  in relation to the measure,

the last day on which the implementation trial measure is to have effect is
the last day of that period as so extended.

######### Power to conduct implementation trials

4.161C

4.161C.1

The CMA may, in relation to a market investigation reference, begin an
implementation trial where—

4.161C.1.a

subsection (2) of section 138 applies (see subsection (1) of that section),
and

4.161C.1.b

the CMA has not taken, but is minded to take, qualifying remedial action.

4.161C.2

The Secretary of State may, in relation to a restricted PI reference or a full
PI reference, begin an implementation trial where—

4.161C.2.a

subsection (2) of section 147, or subsection (2) of 147A (as the case may be),
applies (see subsection (1) of the section in question), and

4.161C.2.b

the Secretary of State has not taken, but is minded to take, qualifying
remedial action.

4.161C.3

Subsections (1)  and  (2)  are subject to the duty to publish notices in
section 161D .

4.161C.4

The relevant authority begins an implementation trial by—

4.161C.4.a

accepting, from such persons as the relevant authority considers appropriate,
undertakings under this section to take action specified or described in the
undertakings, or

4.161C.4.b

making an order under this section,

for the purposes of assessing, during the implementation trial period, the
likely effectiveness of the qualifying remedial action.

4.161C.5

Where the relevant authority begins an implementation trial, the relevant
authority may also—

4.161C.5.a

accept, from such persons as the relevant authority considers appropriate,
undertakings under this section to take action specified or described in the
undertakings, or

4.161C.5.b

make an order under this section,

in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (6).

4.161C.6

The circumstances are that the relevant authority considers that accepting the
undertakings or making the order would be likely to contribute to, or
otherwise be of use for purposes of, remedying, mitigating or preventing,
during the implementation trial period—

4.161C.6.a

an adverse effect on competition identified in the report concerned or (as the
case may be) an effect adverse to the public interest which has resulted from,
or may be expected to result from, the features or combinations of features
mentioned;

4.161C.6.b

any detrimental effect on customers so far as it has resulted from, or may be
expected to result from, any such adverse effect on competition.

######### Implementation trials: notices

4.161D

4.161D.1

Before the relevant authority begins an implementation trial under  section
161C (4) , the relevant authority must publish—

4.161D.1.a

a provisional implementation trial notice, and

4.161D.1.b

a final implementation trial notice (but see  subsection (4) ).

4.161D.2

A provisional implementation trial notice must—

4.161D.2.a

specify each implementation trial measure the relevant authority is minded to
impose for the purposes of the implementation trial;

4.161D.2.b

specify the relevant adverse effect with which each measure is seeking to
deal;

4.161D.2.c

specify any other facts which the relevant authority considers justify the
imposition of each measure;

4.161D.2.d

specify, in relation to each measure—

4.161D.2.d.i

how the relevant authority intends to assess the likely effect of the measure,
and

4.161D.2.d.ii

the last day on which the relevant authority intends for the measure to have
effect;

4.161D.2.e

invite the making of representations by the persons on which the relevant
authority is minded to impose one or more implementation trial measure
(“implementation trial participants”) about the matters set out in the notice;

4.161D.2.f

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

4.161D.3

The time specified under  subsection (2) (f)  by which representations must be
made must be at least 15 days after the date on which the provisional
implementation trial notice is published.

4.161D.4

A relevant authority may publish a final implementation trial notice only
where—

4.161D.4.a

the relevant authority has published a provisional implementation trial notice
under  subsection (1) ,

4.161D.4.b

the time for the implementation trial participants to make representations to
the relevant authority in accordance with the notice has expired, and

4.161D.4.c

after considering such representations (if any), it appears to the relevant
authority that it is appropriate to begin an implementation trial under
section 161C (4) .

4.161D.5

A final implementation trial notice must specify—

4.161D.5.a

the implementation trial measures the relevant authority intends to impose for
the purposes of the implementation trial,

4.161D.5.b

in relation to each such measure—

4.161D.5.b.i

how the relevant authority intends to assess the likely effect of the measure,
and

4.161D.5.b.ii

the last day on which the measure is to have effect.

######### Implementation trials: supplementary

4.161E

4.161E.1

The relevant authority may not accept an undertaking from a person under
section 161C  unless it has provided the person with information about the
possible consequences of failing to comply with the undertaking.

4.161E.2

The CMA may not begin an implementation trial under  section 161C (4) —

4.161E.2.a

in respect of qualifying remedial action that would be taken in accordance
with subsection (2) of section 138, after the end of the period within which
the CMA would otherwise have been required to discharge its duty under that
subsection;

4.161E.2.b

in respect of qualifying remedial action that would be taken in accordance
with  section 162A (5) , after the end of the period mentioned in  section
162A (6) .

4.161E.3

Subsections (3), (5) and (6) of section 138 apply to action taken by the CMA
under  section 161C  as they apply to action taken by the CMA under section
138(2).

4.161E.4

Subsections (3)(b), (4), (5) and (6) of section 147 apply to action taken by
the Secretary of State under  section 161C  in relation to a restricted PI
reference as they apply to action taken by the Secretary of State under
section 147(2).

4.161E.5

Subsections (3) and (4)(b) of section 147A apply to action taken by the
Secretary of State under  section 161C  in relation to a full PI reference as
they apply to action taken by the Secretary of State under section 147A(2).

4.161E.6

Subsections (3) to (5) of section 159 apply to undertakings accepted under
section 161C  as they apply to undertakings accepted under section 159(1).

4.161E.7

Subsections (3) and (4) of section 161 apply to orders made under  section
161C  as they apply to orders made under section 161(1).

5

After section 162A (inserted by  section 139 (4) ) insert—

######## Power to vary etc undertakings and orders: implementation trials

5.162B

5.162B.1

This section applies in relation to implementation trial measures imposed in
accordance with  section 161C .

5.162B.2

The CMA must keep under review the effectiveness of the implementation trial
measures.

5.162B.3

The CMA must, in particular, from time to time consider—

5.162B.3.a

whether an implementation trial measure has been or is being complied with;

5.162B.3.b

whether an undertaking accepted under  section 161C  is no longer appropriate
and—

5.162B.3.b.i

one or more of the parties to it can be released from it; or

5.162B.3.b.ii

it needs to be varied or to be superseded by a new undertaking under that
section; and

5.162B.3.c

whether an order made under  section 161C  is no longer appropriate and needs
to be varied or revoked.

5.162B.4

The CMA must, within the implementation trial period, give the Secretary of
State such advice as it considers appropriate in relation to—

5.162B.4.a

any possible variation or release by the Secretary of State of an undertaking
accepted by the Secretary of State under  section 161C ;

5.162B.4.b

any possible new undertaking to be accepted by the Secretary of State under
that section so as to supersede another undertaking given to the Secretary of
State under that section;

5.162B.4.c

any possible variation or revocation by the Secretary of State of an order
made by the Secretary of State under that section;

5.162B.4.d

any possible undertaking to be accepted by the Secretary of State under that
section instead of an order made under that section, or any possible order to
be made by the Secretary of State under that section instead of an undertaking
accepted under that section.

5.162B.5

The relevant authority must, within the implementation trial period, take such
action as it considers appropriate in relation to—

5.162B.5.a

any possible variation or release by the relevant authority of an undertaking
accepted by it under  section 161C ;

5.162B.5.b

any possible new undertaking to be accepted by the relevant authority under
that section so as to supersede another undertaking given to it under that
section;

5.162B.5.c

any possible variation or revocation by the relevant authority of an order
made by it under that section;

5.162B.5.d

any possible undertaking to be accepted by the relevant authority under that
section instead of an order made under that section, or any possible order to
be made by the relevant authority under that section instead of an undertaking
accepted under that section.

5.162B.6

But the relevant authority may not do anything under this section that would
result in—

5.162B.6.a

the implementation trial period being extended;

5.162B.6.b

an order or undertaking made under  section 161C  being out of compliance with
any provision of that section.

5.162B.7

In this section “ relevant authority ” has the meaning given by  section 161B
(2) .

5.162B.8

Subsections (3), (5) and (6) of section 138 apply to action taken by the CMA
under this section as those subsections apply to action taken by the CMA under
section 138(2).

5.162B.9

Subsections (3)(b), (5) and (6) of section 147 apply to action taken by the
Secretary of State under this section in respect of a restricted PI reference
as those subsections apply to action taken by the Secretary of State under
section 147(2).

5.162B.10

Subsection (3) of section 147A applies to action taken by the Secretary of
State under this section in respect of a full PI reference as that subsection
applies to action taken by the Secretary of State under section 147A(2).

6

In section 165 (procedural requirements for certain undertakings and orders:
Part 4)—

6.a

after “section 159” insert  “or  161C ” ;

6.b

for “or 161” substitute  “, 161 or  161C ” ;

7

7.1

Section 167 (rights to enforce undertakings and orders under Part 4) is
amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)—

7.2.a

the words from “any” to the end become paragraph (a);

7.2.b

after that paragraph insert

;

7.2.b.b

any undertaking accepted, or order made, under  section 161C .

7.3

In subsection (5), for “enforcement undertaking or enforcement order”
substitute  “undertaking or order to which this section applies” .

7.4

In subsection (6), for “enforcement undertaking or an enforcement order”
substitute  “undertaking or order to which this section applies” .

7.5

In subsection (9), for “enforcement undertaking or an enforcement order”
substitute  “undertaking or order to which this section applies” .

8

8.1

Section 167A  (enforcement of enforcement undertakings and orders: imposition
of penalties) (inserted by  paragraph 18  of  Schedule 11 ) is amended as
follows.

8.2

In the heading, after “orders” insert  “etc” .

8.3

In subsection (1)—

8.3.a

the words “an enforcement undertaking or enforcement order” become paragraph
(a);

8.3.b

after that paragraph insert

;

8.3.b.b

any undertaking accepted, or order made, under  section 161C .

9

9.1

In  section 167B  (penalties under  section 167A : amount) (inserted by
paragraph 18  of  Schedule 11 ),  subsection (5) (b)  is amended as follows.

9.2

The words “the enforcement undertaking or enforcement order” become sub-
paragraph (i).

9.3

After that sub-paragraph insert

, or

9.3.ii

the undertaking accepted, or order made, under  section 161C .

10

10.1

In section 169 (certain duties of relevant authorities to consult: Part 4), in
subsection (6), paragraph (a) of the definition of “relevant decision” is
amended as follows.

10.2

Omit the “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (iii).

10.3

after that sub-paragraph insert—

10.3.iv

to accept undertakings or make orders under  section 161C ; and

.

11

In section 172 (further publicity requirements: Part 4), in subsection (2),
after paragraph (zb) insert—

11.zc

any decision made by it under section 138A (A1) (b)  that it is not reasonably
practicable for the CMA to discharge its duty under section 138(2) in
accordance with section 138A(1);

  Civil penalties etc in connection with competition investigations

Section 143(1)

##### Investigations under Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition)

1

In Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition), Chapter 3 (investigation and enforcement)
is amended as follows.

2

2.1

In section 26 (investigations: powers to require documents and information),
subsection (3) is amended as follows.

2.2

In the words before paragraph (a) omit “indicate”.

2.3

In paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “indicate” .

2.4

For paragraph (b) substitute—

2.4.b

include information about the possible consequences of failing to comply with
the notice.

3

3.1

In section 26A (investigations: power to ask questions), subsection (5) is
amended as follows.

3.2

In the words before paragraph (a) omit “indicate”.

3.3

In paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “indicate” .

3.4

For paragraph (b) substitute—

3.4.b

include information about the possible consequences of failing to comply with
the notice.

4

In section 27 (power to enter business premises without a warrant), in
subsection (2), for paragraph (c) substitute—

4.c

includes information about the possible consequences of failing to comply with
the notice.

5

5.1

In section 29 (entry of premises under warrant: supplementary), subsection (1)
is amended as follows.

5.2

In the words before paragraph (a) omit “indicate”.

5.3

In paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “indicate” .

5.4

For paragraph (b) substitute—

5.4.b

include information about the possible consequences of failing to comply with
the notice.

6

6.1

In section 40ZD (information relating to transferred EU anti-trust commitments
and transferred EU anti-trust directions), subsection (3) is amended as
follows.

6.2

The words from “indicates the subject matter” to the end become paragraph (a).

6.3

After that paragraph insert

, and

6.3.b

includes information about the possible consequences of failing to comply with
the notice.

7

For the italic heading before section 40A substitute—

  Civil sanctions: failure to comply with investigative requirements

8

Before section 40A (but after the italic heading substituted by  paragraph 7 )
insert—

######### Enforcement of requirements: imposition of penalties

8.40ZE

8.40ZE.1

The CMA may impose a penalty on a person in accordance with section 40A where
the CMA considers that—

8.40ZE.1.a

the person has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with a requirement
imposed on the person under section 26, 26A, 27, 28, 28A or 40ZD;

8.40ZE.1.b

the person has, without reasonable excuse, obstructed an officer acting in the
exercise of the officer’s powers under section 27 or under a warrant issued
under section 28 or 28A;

8.40ZE.1.c

the person, having been required to produce a document under section 26, 27,
28 or 28A, has, without reasonable excuse—

8.40ZE.1.c.i

destroyed or otherwise disposed of, falsified or concealed the document, or

8.40ZE.1.c.ii

caused or permitted the document’s destruction, disposal, falsification or
concealment;

8.40ZE.1.d

the person has, without reasonable excuse, provided information that was false
or misleading in a material particular to the CMA in connection with any
function of the CMA under this Part;

8.40ZE.1.e

the person has, without reasonable excuse, provided information that was false
or misleading in a material particular to another person knowing that the
information was to be used for the purpose of providing information to the CMA
in connection with any function of the CMA under this Part.

8.40ZE.2

But the CMA may not proceed against a person under this section in relation to
an act or omission which constitutes an offence under any of sections 42 to 44
if the person has, by reason of that act or omission, been found guilty of
that offence.

8.40ZE.3

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under subsection (1) the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
under section 40B at the time when the act or omission concerned occurred.

8.40ZE.4

In this section—

8.40ZE.4.a

the reference to the production of a document includes a reference to the
production of a legible and intelligible copy of information recorded
otherwise than in legible form;

8.40ZE.4.b

the reference to concealing a document includes a reference to destroying the
means of reproducing information recorded otherwise than in legible form.

8.40ZE.5

Sections 112 to 115 of the Enterprise Act 2002 (supplementary provisions about
penalties) apply in relation to a penalty imposed under  subsection (1)  as
they apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section 110 (1)  or  (1A)
of that Act, with the following modifications—

8.40ZE.5.a

any reference in those provisions to the appropriate authority is to be read
as a reference to the CMA only;

8.40ZE.5.b

section 114 (5A)  is to be read as if the words “In the case of a penalty
imposed on a person by the CMA or OFCOM,” were omitted;

8.40ZE.5.c

section 114(12) is to be read as if, for paragraph  (b) , there were
substituted—

8.40ZE.5.c.b

“ relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most recently
published under section 40B of the 1998 Act at the time when the act or
omission concerned occurred.

9

9.1

Section 40A (penalties: failure to comply with requirements) is amended as
follows.

9.2

In the heading, for “failure to comply with requirements” substitute  “amount”
.

9.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

9.3.1A

A penalty imposed under  section 40ZE (1)  is to be of such amount as the CMA
considers appropriate.

9.4

In subsection (2), for the words before paragraph (a), substitute  “A penalty
imposed under  section 40ZE (1) (a)  may be—” .

9.5

After subsection (2) insert—

9.5.2A

A penalty imposed under any of  section 40ZE (1) (b)  to  (e)  must be a fixed
amount.

9.6

In subsection (3)—

9.6.a

for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “A penalty imposed under
section 40ZE (1)  on a person who is not an undertaking must not—” ;

9.6.b

in paragraph (a), for “such amount as the Secretary of State may by order
specify” substitute  “£30,000” ;

9.6.c

in paragraph (b), for “such amount per day as the Secretary of State may so
specify” substitute  “£15,000 per day” ;

9.6.d

in paragraph (c) omit “as the Secretary of State may so specify”.

9.7

After subsection (3) insert—

9.7.3A

A penalty imposed under  section 40ZE (1)  on a person who is an undertaking
must not—

9.7.3A.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed 1% of the turnover of the undertaking;

9.7.3A.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
exceed 5% of the daily turnover of the undertaking;

9.7.3A.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

9.8

Omit subsections (4) and (5).

9.9

In subsection (6), in paragraph (a)—

9.9.a

for “notice under section 112” substitute  “provisional penalty notice under
section 112 (A1) ” ;

9.9.b

for “subsection (9)” substitute  “ section 40ZE (5) ” .

9.10

After subsection (7) insert—

9.10.7A

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection (3)(a) and (b) by
substituting for either or both of the sums for the time being specified in
those paragraphs such other sum or sums as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

9.11

In subsection (8), for “an order under subsection (3)” substitute
“regulations under  subsection (7A) ” .

9.12

Omit subsection (9).

9.13

At the end insert—

9.13.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining the
turnover and daily turnover of an undertaking for the purposes of this
section.

9.13.11

Regulations under  subsection (10)  may, in particular, make provision as to—

9.13.11.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as an undertaking’s
turnover or daily turnover;

9.13.11.b

the date, or dates, by reference to which an undertaking’s turnover, or daily
turnover, is to be determined.

9.13.12

Regulations under  subsection (10)  may, in particular, make provision
enabling the CMA to determine matters of a description specified in the
regulations (including any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  and
(b)  of  subsection (11) ).

10

10.1

Section 40B (statement of policy on penalties) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1)—

10.2.a

for “use of its powers” substitute  “exercise of functions” ;

10.2.b

for “40A” substitute  “ 40ZE ” .

10.3

In subsection (2), for “40A” substitute  “ 40ZE ” .

10.4

In subsection (4), for “such persons” substitute  “the Secretary of State and
such other persons” .

10.5

After subsection (5) insert—

10.5.5A

A statement or revised statement of policy may not be published under this
section without the approval of the Secretary of State.

10.6

Omit subsection (6).

11

11.1

Section 42 (offences) is amended as follows.

11.2

For the heading substitute  “Obstruction” .

11.3

After subsection (7) insert—

11.3.8

A person is not guilty of an offence under subsection (5) or (7) by reason of
any act or omission in relation to which the CMA has proceeded against the
person under  section 40ZE (1) .

12

In section 43 (destroying or falsifying documents), after subsection (1)
insert—

12.1A

A person is not guilty of an offence under subsection (1) by reason of any act
or omission in relation to which the CMA has proceeded against the person
under  section 40ZE (1) .

13

In section 44 (false or misleading information), after subsection (2) insert—

13.2A

A person is not guilty of an offence under this section by reason of any act
or omission in relation to which the CMA has proceeded against the person
under  section 40ZE (1) .

##### Investigations under Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers)

14

In Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers), Chapter 5 (supplementary: investigation
powers) is amended as follows.

15

15.1

Section 110 (enforcement of powers under section 109: general) is amended as
follows.

15.2

In the heading, for “general” substitute  “imposition of penalties” .

15.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

15.3.1

The CMA may impose a penalty on a person in accordance with section 111 where
the CMA considers that—

15.3.1.a

the person has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with any
requirement of a notice under section 109;

15.3.1.b

the person has, without reasonable excuse, obstructed or delayed another
person in the exercise of the other person’s powers under section 109(6);

15.3.1.c

the person has, without reasonable excuse, altered, suppressed or destroyed
any document which the person has been required to produce by a notice under
section 109.

15.3.1A

The appropriate authority may impose a penalty on a person in accordance with
section 111 where the authority considers that—

15.3.1A.a

the person has, without reasonable excuse, supplied information that is false
or misleading in a material respect to the authority in connection with any of
the authority’s functions under this Part;

15.3.1A.b

the person has, without reasonable excuse, supplied information that is false
or misleading in a material respect to another person knowing that the
information was to be used for the purpose of supplying information to the
authority in connection with any function of the authority under this Part.

15.3.1B

In this section, and in sections 111 to 117, “ the appropriate authority ”
means—

15.3.1B.a

the CMA;

15.3.1B.b

the Secretary of State;

15.3.1B.c

OFCOM.

15.3.1C

But the appropriate authority may not proceed against a person under this
section in relation to an act or omission which constitutes an offence under
section  116A  or 117 if the person has, by reason of that act or omission,
been found guilty of that offence.

.

15.4

In subsection (2), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “ subsection (1) (a) ” .

15.5

Omit subsections (3) to (8).

15.6

For subsection (9) substitute—

15.6.9

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under subsection  (1)  or  (1A)
or section 39(4) or 51(4) (including that enactment as applied by section
65(3))—

15.6.9.a

the CMA must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently
published under section 116 at the time when the act or omission concerned
occurred;

15.6.9.b

OFCOM must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently
published under section 392 of the Communications Act 2003 (penalties imposed
by OFCOM) at the time when the act or omission concerned occurred.

16

16.1

Section 110A (restriction on powers to impose penalties under section 110) is
amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (1)—

16.2.a

for “110(1) or (3)” substitute  “110 (1) (a)  or  (b) ” ;

16.2.b

for “4” substitute  “ten” .

16.3

In subsection (2), for “the failure or (as the case may be) the obstruction or
delay” substitute  “the act or omission giving rise to the penalty” .

17

17.1

Section 111 (penalties) is amended as follows.

17.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “: amount” .

17.3

In subsection (1)—

17.3.a

for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” ;

17.3.b

for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

17.4

In subsection (2) for “110(1)” substitute  “110 (1) (a) ” .

17.5

In subsection (3), for “section 110(3)” substitute  “any of section 110 (1)
(b) ,  (c)  or  (1A) ” .

17.6

In subsection (4)—

17.6.a

for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “A penalty imposed under
section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  on a person who does not own or control an
enterprise must not—” ;

17.6.b

in paragraph (a), for “such amount as the Secretary of State may by order
specify” substitute  “£30,000” ;

17.6.c

in paragraph (b), for “such amount per day as the Secretary of State may so
specify” substitute  “£15,000 per day” ;

17.6.d

in paragraph (c) omit “as the Secretary of State may so specify”.

17.7

After subsection (4) insert—

17.7.4A

A penalty imposed under section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  on any other person must
not—

17.7.4A.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed 1% of the total value of the turnover
(both in and outside the United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or
controlled by the person;

17.7.4A.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
exceed 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (both in and outside the
United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or controlled by the person;

17.7.4A.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

17.8

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a)—

17.8.a

for “notice under section 112” substitute  “provisional penalty notice under
section 112 (A1) ” ;

17.8.b

in paragraph (b), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), for “the CMA”
substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

17.9

Omit subsections (6) and (7).

17.10

Before subsection (8) insert—

17.10.7A

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection (4)(a) and (b) by
substituting for either or both of the sums for the time being specified in
those paragraphs such other sum or sums as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

17.11

In subsection (8)—

17.11.a

for “an order under subsection (4) or (6)” substitute  “regulations under
subsection (7A) ” ;

17.11.b

after “the CMA” insert  “, OFCOM” .

17.12

After subsection (8) insert—

17.12.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining, for
the purposes of this section—

17.12.9.a

when an enterprise is to be treated as being controlled by a person;

17.12.9.b

the turnover and daily turnover (both in and outside the United Kingdom) of an
enterprise.

17.12.10

Regulations under  subsection (9) (b)  may, in particular, make provision as
to—

17.12.10.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising an
enterprise’s turnover or daily turnover;

17.12.10.b

the date, or dates, by reference to which an enterprise’s turnover, or daily
turnover, is to be determined.

17.12.11

Regulations under  subsection (9)  may, in particular, make provision enabling
the appropriate authority to determine matters of a description specified in
the regulations (including any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs  (a)
and  (b)  of  subsection (10) ).

18

18.1

Section 112 (penalties: main procedural requirements) is amended as follows.

18.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

18.2.A1

Before the appropriate authority imposes a penalty under section 110 (1)  or
(1A) , the authority must give the person concerned a provisional penalty
notice.

18.2.A2

A provisional penalty notice must—

18.2.A2.a

contain a draft of the final penalty notice the appropriate authority is
minded to give to the person under subsection (1),

18.2.A2.b

invite the making of representations by the person to the authority about the
proposed final penalty notice, and

18.2.A2.c

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

18.2.A3

The appropriate authority must have regard to any representations received in
accordance with a provisional penalty notice before imposing a penalty under
section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  (and accordingly may not impose such a penalty
before the time for the person concerned to make representations to the
authority in accordance with that notice has expired).

18.3

In subsection (1)—

18.3.a

for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” ;

18.3.b

for “the CMA shall give notice of the penalty” substitute  “the appropriate
authority must give the person concerned a final penalty notice” .

18.4

In subsection (2)—

18.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “The” insert  “final penalty” ;

18.4.b

in paragraph (a), for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” ;

18.4.c

in paragraph (d), for “failure (or as the case may be) the obstruction or
delay which the CMA” substitute  “act or omission in question which the
appropriate authority” ;

18.4.d

in paragraph (e), for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” ;

18.4.e

in paragraph (f), for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

18.5

In subsection (3), for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

18.6

After subsection (3) insert—

18.6.3A

A provisional penalty notice is given by serving a copy of the notice on the
person on whom the appropriate authority is minded to impose the penalty.

18.7

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), for “notice under this
section” substitute  “final penalty notice” .

19

19.1

Section 113 (payment and interest by instalments) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (3), for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

19.3

In subsection (4), for “the CMA” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

20

20.1

Section 114 (appeals in relation to penalties) is amended as follows.

20.2

In subsection (1), for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ”

20.3

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), for “the CMA” substitute
“the appropriate authority” .

20.4

In subsection (5), in paragraph (c), for “the CMA” substitute  “the
appropriate authority” .

20.5

After subsection (5) insert—

20.5.5A

In the case of a penalty imposed on a person by the CMA or OFCOM, in
considering what is appropriate for the purposes of subsection (5) the
Competition Appeal Tribunal must have regard to the relevant guidance.

20.6

In subsection (7), in paragraph (b), for “the CMA” substitute  “the
appropriate authority” .

20.7

In subsection (12)—

20.7.a

the words from ““the appropriate court”” to the end become paragraph (a);

20.7.b

after that paragraph insert—

20.7.b.b

“ the relevant guidance ” means—

20.7.b.b.i

in the case of a penalty imposed on a person by the CMA, the statement of
policy which was most recently published under section 116 at the time when
the act or omission concerned occurred;

20.7.b.b.ii

in the case of a penalty imposed on a person by OFCOM, the statement of policy
which was most recently published under section 392 of the Communications Act
2003 (penalties imposed by OFCOM) at the time when the act or omission
concerned occurred.

21

21.1

Section 115 (recovery of penalties) is amended as follows.

21.2

In the words before paragraph (a), for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” .

21.3

In the words after paragraph (b), for “the CMA” in both places it occurs
substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

22

22.1

Section 116 (statement of policy) is amended as follows.

22.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

22.2.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to—

22.2.1.a

the imposition of penalties under section 110, and

22.2.1.b

the enforcement of notices under section 109.

22.3

In subsection (2), for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” .

22.4

In subsection (4), for “such” substitute  “the Secretary of State and such
other” .

22.5

After subsection (4) insert—

22.5.5

A statement or revised statement of policy may not be published under this
section without the approval of the Secretary of State.

23

After section 116 insert—

######### Intentional destruction etc of documents

23.116A

23.116A.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if the person intentionally alters,
suppresses or destroys any document which P has been required to produce by a
notice under section 109.

23.116A.2

But P does not commit an offence under  subsection (1)  by reason of any act
or omission if the CMA has proceeded against P under section 110 (1)  or  (1A)
in relation to that act or omission.

23.116A.3

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

23.116A.3.a

on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum;

23.116A.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine or to both.

23.116A.4

In this section—

23.116A.4.a

the reference to the production of a document includes a reference to the
production of a legible and intelligible copy of information recorded
otherwise than in legible form;

23.116A.4.b

the reference to suppressing a document includes a reference to destroying the
means of reproducing information recorded otherwise than in legible form.

24

24.1

Section 117 (false or misleading information) is amended as follows.

24.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (a) for “the CMA, OFCOM or the Secretary of
State” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

24.3

In sub-paragraph (2), in the words after paragraph (b), for “the CMA, OFCOM or
the Secretary of State” substitute  “the appropriate authority” .

24.4

After subsection (2) insert—

24.4.2A

A person does not commit an offence under subsection (1) or (2) by reason of
any act or omission if the appropriate authority has proceeded against the
person under section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  in relation to that act or omission.

25

In section 120 (review of decisions under Part 3), in subsection (2), in
paragraph (a), for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” .

##### Investigations under Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations)

26

In Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations), Chapter 4
(supplementary: investigation powers) is amended as follows.

27

27.1

Section 174A (enforcement of powers under section 174: general) is amended as
follows.

27.2

In the heading, for “general” substitute  “imposition of penalties” .

27.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

27.3.1

The CMA may impose a penalty on a person in accordance with section 174D where
the CMA considers that—

27.3.1.a

the person has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with any
requirement of a notice under section 174;

27.3.1.b

the person has, without reasonable excuse, obstructed or delayed another
person in the exercise of the other person’s powers under section 174(7);

27.3.1.c

the person has, without reasonable excuse, altered, suppressed or destroyed
any document which the person has been required to produce by a notice under
section 174.

27.3.1A

The relevant authority may impose a penalty on a person in accordance with
section 174D where the authority considers that—

27.3.1A.a

the person has, without reasonable excuse, supplied information that is false
or misleading in a material respect to the authority in connection with any of
the authority’s functions under this Part;

27.3.1A.b

the person has, without reasonable excuse, supplied information that is false
or misleading in a material respect to another person knowing that the
information was to be used for the purpose of supplying information to the
authority in connection with any function of the authority under this Part.

27.3.1B

In this section, and in sections 174B to 174D, “ the relevant authority ”
means—

27.3.1B.a

the CMA;

27.3.1B.b

the Secretary of State;

27.3.1B.c

the appropriate Minister (so far as the Minister is not the Secretary of State
acting alone).

27.3.1C

But the relevant authority may not proceed against a person under this section
in relation to an act or omission which constitutes an offence under section
116A  or 117 as applied by section 180 if the person has, by reason of that
act or omission, been found guilty of that offence.

27.4

In subsection (2), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “ subsection (1) (a) ” .

27.5

Omit subsections (3) to (7).

27.6

In subsection (8)—

27.6.a

for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” ;

27.6.b

for “failure concerned or (as the case may be) the obstruction or delay”
substitute  “act or omission” .

27.7

After subsection (9) insert—

27.7.10

Sections 112 to 115 apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section 174A
(1)  or  (1A)  as they apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section
110 (1)  or  (1A) , with the following modifications—

27.7.10.a

any reference in those provisions to the appropriate authority is to be read
as a reference to the relevant authority within the meaning of this section;

27.7.10.b

section 114 (5A)  is to be read as if the words “or OFCOM” were omitted;

27.7.10.c

section 114(12) is to be read as if, for paragraph  (b) , there were
substituted—

27.7.10.c.b

“ relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most recently
published under section 174E at the time when the act or omission concerned
occurred.

28

28.1

Section 174B (restriction on powers to impose penalties under section 174A) is
amended as follows.

28.2

In subsection (1)—

28.2.a

for “174A(1) or (3)” substitute  “174A (1) (a)  or  (b) ” ;

28.2.b

for “4” substitute  “ten” .

28.3

In subsection (2), for “the failure or (as the case may be) the obstruction or
delay” substitute  “the act or omission giving rise to the penalty” .

29

29.1

Section 174D (penalties) is amended as follows.

29.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “: amount” .

29.3

In subsection (1)—

29.3.a

for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” ;

29.3.b

for “the CMA” insert  “the relevant authority” .

29.4

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “174A(1)” substitute
“174A (1) (a) ” .

29.5

In subsection (3), for “section 174A(3)” substitute  “any of section 174A (1)
(b) ,  (c)  or  (1A) ” .

29.6

In subsection (4)—

29.6.a

for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “A penalty imposed under
section 174A (1)  or  (1A)  on a person who does not own or control an
enterprise must not—” ;

29.6.b

in paragraph (a), for “such amount as the Secretary of State may by order
specify” substitute  “£30,000” ;

29.6.c

in paragraph (b), for “such amount per day as the Secretary of State may so
specify” substitute  “£15,000 per day” ;

29.6.d

in paragraph (c) omit “as the Secretary of State may so specify”.

29.7

After subsection (4) insert—

29.7.4A

A penalty imposed under section 174A (1)  or  (1A)  on any other person must
not—

29.7.4A.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed 1% of the total value of the turnover
(both in and outside the United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or
controlled by the person;

29.7.4A.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
exceed 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (both in and outside the
United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or controlled by the person;

29.7.4A.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

29.8

Omit subsections (5) and (6).

29.9

Before subsection (7) insert—

29.9.6A

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection (4)(a) and (b) by
substituting for either or both of the sums for the time being specified in
those paragraphs such other sum or sums as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

29.10

In subsection (7), in the words before paragraph (a), for “an order under
subsection (4) or (5)” substitute  “regulations under  subsection (6A) ” .

29.11

In subsection (8), in paragraph (a)—

29.11.a

for “notice under section 112” substitute  “provisional penalty notice under
section 112 (A1) ” ;

29.11.b

for “subsection (10)” substitute  “section 174A (10) ” .

29.12

Omit subsection (10).

29.13

After subsection (10) insert—

29.13.11

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining, for
the purposes of this section—

29.13.11.a

when an enterprise is to be treated as being controlled by a person;

29.13.11.b

the turnover and daily turnover (both in and outside the United Kingdom) of an
enterprise.

29.13.12

Regulations under  subsection (11) (b)  may, in particular, make provision as
to—

29.13.12.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising an
enterprise’s turnover or daily turnover;

29.13.12.b

the date, or dates, by reference to which an enterprise’s turnover, or daily
turnover, is to be determined.

29.13.13

Regulations under  subsection (11)  may, in particular, make provision
enabling the relevant authority to determine matters of a description
specified in the regulations (including any of the matters mentioned in
paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  subsection (12) ).

30

30.1

Section 174E (statement of policy on penalties) is amended as follows.

30.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

30.2.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to—

30.2.1.a

the imposition of penalties under section 174A, and

30.2.1.b

the enforcement of notices under section 174.

30.3

In subsection (2), for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” .

30.4

In subsection (4), for “such” substitute  “the Secretary of State and such
other” .

30.5

After subsection (4) insert—

30.5.5

A statement or revised statement of policy may not be published under this
section without the approval of the Secretary of State.

31

In section 179 (review of decisions under Part 4), in subsection (2), in
paragraph (a), for “(3)” substitute  “ (1A) ” .

32

32.1

Section 180 (offences) is amended as follows.

32.2

In subsection (1), after “Sections” insert  “ 116A  (intentional destruction
etc of documents),” .

32.3

For subsection (2) substitute—

32.3.1A

For the purposes of subsection (1), section  116A  has effect as if—

32.3.1A.a

references to section 109 were references to section 174;

32.3.1A.b

the reference to section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  were a reference to section 174A
(1)  or  (1A) .

32.3.1B

For the purposes of subsection (1), section 117 has effect as if—

32.3.1B.a

references to “the appropriate authority” were to “the relevant authority”
within the meaning of section 174A;

32.3.1B.b

the reference to section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  were a reference to section 174A
(1)  or  (1A) .

33

In section 183 (interpretation: Part 4), in subsection (1), at the appropriate
place insert—

      “ enterprise ” means the activities, or part of the activities, of a
business;

.

34

In section 184 (index of defined expressions: Part 4), at the appropriate
place in the table insert—

    Enterprise Section 183(1)

.

  Civil penalties etc in connection with breaches of remedies

Section 143(2)

##### Commitments and directions under Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition)

1

In Part 1 of CA 1998 (competition), Chapter 3 (investigation and enforcement)
is amended as follows.

2

In section 31A (commitments), after subsection (2) insert—

2.2A

But the CMA may not accept commitments from a person unless it has provided
the person with information about the possible consequences of failing to
adhere to the commitments.

3

In section 31E (enforcement of commitments), after subsection (3) insert—

3.4

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under this section, the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
by it under  section 35C  at the time of the failure to adhere to the
commitments.

4

In the italic heading before section 32, at the end insert  “: directions and
interim measures” .

5

In section 34 (enforcement of directions), after subsection (3) insert—

5.4

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under this section, the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
by it under  section 35C  at the time of the failure to comply with the
direction.

6

After section 35 insert—

######### Civil sanctions: breaches of commitments, directions and interim measures

########## Enforcement of powers under sections 31A, 32, 33 and 35: imposition of penalties

6.35A

6.35A.1

The CMA may, in accordance with  section 35B , impose a penalty on a person—

6.35A.1.a

from whom the CMA has accepted commitments under section 31A (and who has not
been released from those commitments), or

6.35A.1.b

to whom the CMA has given a direction under section 32, 33 or 35,

where the CMA considers that the person has, without reasonable excuse, failed
to adhere to the commitments or comply with the direction.

6.35A.2

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under  subsection (1)  the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
under  section 35C  at the time of the failure to adhere or comply.

########## Penalties under 

6.35B

6.35B.1

A penalty under  section 35A (1)  is to be such amount as the CMA considers
appropriate.

6.35B.2

The amount must be—

6.35B.2.a

a fixed amount,

6.35B.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

6.35B.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

6.35B.3

A penalty imposed under  section 35A (1)  on a person who is not an
undertaking must not—

6.35B.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed £30,000;

6.35B.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, exceed
£15,000 per day;

6.35B.3.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

6.35B.4

A penalty imposed under  section 35A (1)  on a person who is an undertaking
must not—

6.35B.4.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed 5% of the total value of the turnover of
the undertaking;

6.35B.4.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
exceed 5% of the total value of the daily turnover of the undertaking;

6.35B.4.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

6.35B.5

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

6.35B.5.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the service on the person
concerned of the provisional penalty notice under section 112 (A1)  of the
Enterprise Act 2002 (as applied by  subsection (6) ), and

6.35B.5.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier date (whether before or after the penalty
is imposed), the amount payable ceases to accumulate at the beginning of the
day on which the person adheres to the commitments or complies with the
direction (as the case may be) referred to in  section 35A (1) .

6.35B.6

Sections 112 to 115 of the Enterprise Act 2002 apply in relation to a penalty
imposed under  section 35A (1)  as they apply in relation to a penalty imposed
under section 110 (1)  or  (1A)  of that Act, with the following
modifications—

6.35B.6.a

any reference in those provisions to the appropriate authority is to be read
as a reference to the CMA only;

6.35B.6.b

section 114 (5A)  is to be read as if the words “In the case of a penalty
imposed on a person by the CMA or OFCOM,” were omitted;

6.35B.6.c

section 114(12) is to be read as if, for paragraph (b), there were
substituted—

6.35B.6.c.b

“ relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most recently
published under  section 35C  at the time when the act or omission concerned
occurred.

6.35B.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (3) (a)  and  (b)
by substituting for either or both of the sums for the time being specified in
those paragraphs such other sum or sums as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

6.35B.8

Before making regulations under  subsection (7)  the Secretary of State must
consult—

6.35B.8.a

the CMA, and

6.35B.8.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

6.35B.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining the
turnover and daily turnover of an undertaking for the purposes of  subsection
(4) .

6.35B.10

Regulations under  subsection (9)  may, in particular, make provision as to—

6.35B.10.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising an
undertaking’s turnover or daily turnover;

6.35B.10.b

the date, or dates, by reference to which an undertaking’s turnover, or daily
turnover, is to be determined.

6.35B.11

Regulations under  subsection (9)  may, in particular, make provision enabling
the CMA to determine matters of a description specified in the regulations
(including any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of
subsection (10) ).

######### Statement of policy in relation to functions under sections 31E, 34 and 

########## Statement of policy in relation to functions under sections 31E, 34 and 

6.35C

6.35C.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
exercise of functions under sections 31E, 34 and  35A .

6.35C.2

The statement must, in particular, include a statement about the
considerations relevant to the determination of the nature and amount of any
penalty imposed under  section 35A (1) .

6.35C.3

The CMA may revise its statement of policy and, where it does so, it must
publish the revised statement.

6.35C.4

The CMA must consult the Secretary of State and such other persons as it
considers appropriate when preparing or revising its statement of policy.

6.35C.5

If the proposed statement of policy or revision relates to a matter in respect
of which a regulator exercises concurrent jurisdiction, those consulted must
include that regulator.

6.35C.6

A statement or revised statement of policy may not be published under this
section without the approval of the Secretary of State.

  Civil sanctions: infringements of the Chapter I or II prohibitions

##### Undertakings and orders under Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers)

7

In Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers), Chapter 4 (enforcement) is amended as follows.

8

8.1

Section 34C (functions to be exercised by CMA groups) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1)(e), for “94A” substitute  “ 94AA ” .

8.3

In subsection (3)(e), for “and 94” substitute  “, 94 and  94AA ” .

9

9.1

Section 89 (subject-matter of undertakings) is amended as follows.

9.2

In the heading, at the start insert  “Acceptance and” .

9.3

Before subsection (1) insert—

9.3.A1

An appropriate authority may not accept an enforcement undertaking from a
person unless it has provided the person with information about the possible
consequences of failing to comply with the undertaking.

9.4

After subsection (2) insert—

9.4.3

In this section, “ appropriate authority ” has the same meaning as in  section
94AA .

10

In section 94 (rights to enforce undertakings and orders), after subsection
(9) insert—

10.10

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under this section, the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
by it under section 94B at the time of the failure to comply with the
undertaking or (as the case may be) order.

11

For section 94A substitute—

######### Enforcement of undertakings and orders: imposition of penalties

11.94AA

11.94AA.1

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with  section 94AB , impose a
penalty on a person—

11.94AA.1.a

from whom the authority has accepted an enforcement undertaking, or

11.94AA.1.b

to whom an enforcement order is addressed,

where the authority considers that the person has, without reasonable excuse,
failed to comply with the undertaking or order.

11.94AA.2

In this section and in  section 94AB , “ the appropriate authority ” means—

11.94AA.2.a

in relation to an enforcement undertaking or enforcement order made by the
Secretary of State under Schedule 7, the Secretary of State;

11.94AA.2.b

in relation to any other enforcement undertaking or enforcement order, the
CMA.

11.94AA.3

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under  subsection (1)  the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
under section 94B at the time of the failure to comply.

######### Penalties under 

11.94AB

11.94AB.1

A penalty under  section 94AA (1)  is to be such amount as the appropriate
authority considers appropriate.

11.94AB.2

The amount must be—

11.94AB.2.a

a fixed amount,

11.94AB.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

11.94AB.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

11.94AB.3

A penalty imposed under  section 94AA (1)  on a person who does not own or
control an enterprise must not—

11.94AB.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed £30,000;

11.94AB.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, exceed
£15,000 per day;

11.94AB.3.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

11.94AB.4

A penalty imposed under  section 94AA (1)  on any other person must not—

11.94AB.4.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed 5% of the total value of the turnover
(both in and outside the United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or
controlled by the person on whom it is imposed;

11.94AB.4.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
exceed 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (both in and outside the
United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or controlled by the person on whom
it is imposed;

11.94AB.4.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

11.94AB.5

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

11.94AB.5.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the service on the person
concerned of the provisional penalty notice under section 112 (A1)  (as
applied by  subsection (6) ), and

11.94AB.5.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier date (whether before or after the penalty
is imposed), the amount payable ceases to accumulate at the beginning of the
day on which the person complies with the enforcement undertaking or
enforcement order.

11.94AB.6

Sections 112 to 115 apply in relation to a penalty imposed under  section 94AA
(1)  as they apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section 110 (1)  or
(1A) , with the following modifications—

11.94AB.6.a

any reference in those provisions to the appropriate authority is to be read
as a reference to the appropriate authority within the meaning of this section
(see  section 94AA (2) );

11.94AB.6.b

section 114 (5A)  is to be read as if the words “or OFCOM” were omitted;

11.94AB.6.c

section 114(12) is to be read as if, for paragraph (b), there were
substituted—

11.94AB.6.c.b

“ relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most recently
published under section 94B at the time when the act or omission concerned
occurred.

11.94AB.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (3) (a)  and  (b)
by substituting for either or both of the sums for the time being specified in
those paragraphs such other sum or sums as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

11.94AB.8

Before making regulations under  subsection (7)  the Secretary of State must
consult—

11.94AB.8.a

the CMA, and

11.94AB.8.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

11.94AB.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining, for
the purposes of this section—

11.94AB.9.a

when an enterprise is to be treated as being controlled by a person;

11.94AB.9.b

the turnover and daily turnover (both in and outside the United Kingdom) of an
enterprise.

11.94AB.10

Regulations under  subsection (9) (b)  may, in particular, make provision as
to—

11.94AB.10.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising an
enterprise’s turnover or daily turnover;

11.94AB.10.b

the date, or dates, by reference to which an enterprise’s turnover, or daily
turnover, is to be determined.

11.94AB.11

Regulations under  subsection (9)  may, in particular, make provision enabling
the appropriate authority to determine matters of a description specified in
the regulations (including any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs  (a)
and  (b)  of  subsection (10) ).

12

12.1

Section 94B (statement of policy in relation to powers under sections 94 and
94A) is amended as follows.

12.2

In the heading—

12.2.a

for “powers” substitute  “functions” .

12.2.b

for “94A” substitute  “ 94AA ” .

12.3

In subsection (1)—

12.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “use of its powers” substitute
“exercise of functions” ;

12.3.b

in paragraph (a) omit “, insofar as they relate to interim measures”;

12.3.c

in paragraph (b), for “94A” substitute  “ 94AA ” .

12.4

In subsection (2), for “94A” substitute  “ 94AA ” .

12.5

Omit subsection (6).

13

In section 120 (review of decisions under Part 3), in subsection (2), in
paragraph (a), for “94A(1)” substitute  “ 94AA (1) ” .

##### Undertakings and orders under Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations)

14

In Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations), Chapter 3
(enforcement) is amended as follows.

15

15.1

Section 133A (functions to be exercised by CMA groups) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (1)(i), for “section 167” substitute  “sections 167 and  167A ”
.

15.3

In subsection (2)(e), for “section 167” substitute  “sections 167 and  167A ”
.

16

After section 161 insert—

######### Acceptance of enforcement undertakings: Part 4

16.161A

16.161A.1

The relevant authority may not accept an enforcement undertaking from a person
unless it has provided the person with information about the possible
consequences of failing to comply with the undertaking.

16.161A.2

In  subsection (1) , “ the relevant authority ” means—

16.161A.2.a

in the case of a restricted PI reference or a full PI reference, the Secretary
of State;

16.161A.2.b

in any other case, the CMA.

17

In section 167 (rights to enforce undertakings and orders under this Part),
after subsection (9) insert—

17.10

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under this section, the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
by it under  section 167C  at the time of the failure to comply with the
undertaking or (as the case may be) order.

18

After section 167 insert—

######### Enforcement of undertakings and orders: imposition of penalties

18.167A

18.167A.1

The relevant authority may, in accordance with  section 167B , impose a
penalty on a person—

18.167A.1.a

from whom the authority has accepted an enforcement undertaking, or

18.167A.1.b

to whom an enforcement order is addressed,

where the authority considers that the person has, without reasonable excuse,
failed to comply with the undertaking or order.

18.167A.2

In this section and in section  167B , “ the relevant authority ” means—

18.167A.2.a

in the case of a restricted PI reference or a full PI reference, the Secretary
of State;

18.167A.2.b

in any other case, the CMA.

18.167A.3

In deciding whether and, if so, how to proceed under  subsection (1)  the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy which was most recently published
under  section 167C  at the time of the failure to comply.

######### Penalties under 

18.167B

18.167B.1

A penalty under  section 167A (1)  is to be such amount as the relevant
authority considers appropriate.

18.167B.2

The amount must be—

18.167B.2.a

a fixed amount,

18.167B.2.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

18.167B.2.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

18.167B.3

A penalty imposed under  section 167A (1)  on a person who does not own or
control an enterprise must not—

18.167B.3.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed £30,000;

18.167B.3.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, exceed
£15,000 per day;

18.167B.3.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

18.167B.4

A penalty imposed under  section 167A (1)  on any other person must not—

18.167B.4.a

in the case of a fixed amount, exceed 5% of the total value of the turnover
(both in and outside the United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or
controlled by the person on whom it is imposed;

18.167B.4.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, for each day
exceed 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (both in and outside the
United Kingdom) of the enterprises owned or controlled by the person on whom
it is imposed;

18.167B.4.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, exceed such fixed amount and such amount per day.

18.167B.5

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

18.167B.5.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the service on the person
concerned of the provisional penalty notice under section 112 (A1)  (as
applied by  subsection (6) ), and

18.167B.5.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier date (whether before or after the penalty
is imposed), the amount payable ceases to accumulate at the beginning of the
day on which the person complies with the enforcement undertaking or
enforcement order.

18.167B.6

Sections 112 to 115 apply in relation to a penalty imposed under  section 167A
(1)  as they apply in relation to a penalty imposed under section 110 (1)  or
(1A) , with the following modifications—

18.167B.6.a

any reference in those provisions to the appropriate authority is to be read
as a reference to the relevant authority within the meaning of this section
(see  section 167A (2) );

18.167B.6.b

section 114 (5A)  is to be read as if the words “or OFCOM” were omitted;

18.167B.6.c

section 114(12) is to be read as if, for paragraph (b), there were
substituted—

18.167B.6.c.b

“ relevant guidance ” means the statement of policy which was most recently
published under  section 167C  at the time when the act or omission concerned
occurred.

18.167B.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (3) (a)  and  (b)
by substituting for either or both of the sums for the time being specified in
those paragraphs such other sum or sums as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

18.167B.8

Before making regulations under  subsection (7)  the Secretary of State must
consult—

18.167B.8.a

the CMA, and

18.167B.8.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

18.167B.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for determining, for
the purposes of this section—

18.167B.9.a

when an enterprise is to be treated as being controlled by a person;

18.167B.9.b

the turnover and daily turnover (both in and outside the United Kingdom) of an
enterprise.

18.167B.10

Regulations under  subsection (9) (b)  may, in particular, make provision as
to—

18.167B.10.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising an
enterprise’s turnover or daily turnover;

18.167B.10.b

the date, or dates, by reference to which an enterprise’s turnover, or daily
turnover, is to be determined.

18.167B.11

Regulations under  subsection (9)  may, in particular, make provision enabling
the relevant authority to determine matters of a description specified in the
regulations (including any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  and
(b)  of  subsection (10) ).

######### Statement of policy in relation to functions under sections 167 and 

18.167C

18.167C.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
exercise of functions under sections 167 and  167A .

18.167C.2

The CMA must, in particular, include a statement about the considerations
relevant to the determination of the amount of any penalty imposed under
section 167A .

18.167C.3

The CMA may revise its statement of policy and, where it does so, it must
publish the revised statement.

18.167C.4

The CMA must consult the Secretary of State and such other persons as it
considers appropriate when preparing or revising its statement of policy.

18.167C.5

A statement or revised statement of policy may not be published under this
section without the approval of the Secretary of State.

19

In section 179 (review of decisions under Part 4), in subsection (2), in
paragraph (a), after “section” insert  “ 167A (1)  or” .

  Civil penalties: amendments relating to sectoral regulators

Section 143(3)

##### The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)

1

In the Civil Aviation Act 2012, Chapter 2 of Part 1 (regulation of operators
of dominant airports: competition) is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 60 (functions of the CAA under Part 4 of EA 2002) is amended as
follows.

2.2

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

2.3

In subsection (3), in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

3

In section 61 (functions of the CAA under Part 4 of EA 2002: supplementary),
in subsection (8), for “or 171” substitute  “,  167C , 171 or 174E” .

4

4.1

Section 62 (functions of the CAA under CA 1998) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

4.3

In subsection (4), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

5

In section 63 (functions of the CAA under CA 1998: supplementary), in
subsection (1), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

6

6.1

Section 86 of the Transport Act 2000 (functions of the CAA with respect to
competition) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

6.3

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

6.4

In subsection (4)—

6.4.a

in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” ;

6.4.b

in paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

6.5

In subsection (7), in paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

##### The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)

7

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 is amended as follows.

8

8.1

Section 234I (functions of the FCA under Part 4 of EA 2002) is amended as
follows.

8.2

In the list in subsection (3)—

8.2.a

after the entry for section 166 of EA 2002 insert—

      section 167C  (statement of policy in relation to functions under
sections 167 and  167A );

;

8.2.b

after the entry for section 171 of EA 2002 insert—

      section 174E (statement of policy on penalties).

8.3

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a) for “or 171” substitute  “,  167C , 171 or
174E” .

9

9.1

Section 234J (functions of the FCA under CA 1998) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (3) after the entry for section 31D(1) to (6) of CA 1998 insert—

      section 35C  (statement of policy in relation to functions under
sections 31E, 34 and  35A );

.

9.3

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

##### The Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation

10

10.1

Article 29 of the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 (
S.I. 2006/3336 (N.I. 21))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for
Utility Regulation with respect to competition) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph (2), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “166” insert
“,  167C ” .

10.3

In paragraph (3), in the words before sub-paragraph (a)—

10.3.a

after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” ;

10.3.b

after “38(1) to (6)” insert  “, 40B(1) to (4)” .

10.4

In paragraph (4), in sub-paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

10.5

In paragraph (5)—

10.5.a

after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” ;

10.5.b

after “38(1) to (6)” insert  “, 40B(1) to (4)” .

10.6

In paragraph (9), in sub-paragraph (b)—

10.6.a

after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” ;

10.6.b

after “38(1) to (6)” insert  “, 40B(1) to (4)” .

10.7

Omit paragraph (10).

11

11.1

Article 23 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2))
(functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation with
respect to competition) is amended as follows.

11.2

In paragraph (2A), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “166” insert
“,  167C ” .

11.3

In paragraph (2B), in sub-paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

11.4

In paragraph (3), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

11.5

In paragraph (3A), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

11.6

In paragraph (6), in sub-paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C
” .

11.7

Omit paragraph (7).

12

12.1

Article 46 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231
(N.I. 1))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation
with respect to competition) is amended as follows.

12.2

In paragraph (2A), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “166” insert
“,  167C ” .

12.3

In paragraph (2B), in sub-paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

12.4

In paragraph (3), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

12.5

In paragraph (3A), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

12.6

In paragraph (6), in sub-paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C
” .

12.7

Omit paragraph (6A).

##### The Office of Communications (OFCOM)

13

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

14

14.1

Section 370 (functions of OFCOM under Part 4 of EA 2002) is amended as
follows.

14.2

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

14.3

In subsection (3), in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

14.4

Omit subsection (10).

15

15.1

Section 371 (functions of OFCOM under CA 1998) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

15.3

In subsection (3), in paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

16

16.1

Section 392 (penalties imposed by OFCOM) is amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (1), after “the Competition Act  1998 (c. 41) ” insert  “and
Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002” .

16.3

In subsection (6), after “the Competition Act  1998 (c. 41) ” insert  “and
Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002” .

##### The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem)

17

17.1

Section 43 of the Electricity Act 1989 (functions of Ofgem with respect to
competition) is amended as follows.

17.2

In subsection (2A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

17.3

In subsection (2B), in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

17.4

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

17.5

In subsection (3A), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

17.6

In subsection (6), in paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

17.7

Omit subsection (6A).

18

18.1

Section 36A of the Gas Act 1986 (functions of Ofgem with respect to
competition) is amended as follows.

18.2

In subsection (2A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

18.3

In subsection (2B), in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

18.4

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

18.5

In subsection (3A), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

18.6

In subsection (7), in paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

18.7

Omit subsection (8).

##### The Office of Rail and Road (ORR)

19

19.1

Section 67 of the Railways Act 1993 (functions of the ORR with respect to
competition) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (2A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

19.3

In subsection (2B), in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

19.4

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

19.5

In subsection (3A), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

19.6

In subsection (8), in paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

19.7

Omit subsection (9).

##### The Payment Systems Regulator

20

The Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 is amended as follows.

21

21.1

Section 59 (functions of the Payment Systems Regulator under Part 4 of EA
2002) is amended as follows.

21.2

In the list in subsection (3)—

21.2.a

after the entry for section 166 of EA 2002 insert—

      section 167C  (statement of policy in relation to functions under
sections 167 and  167A );

;

21.2.b

after the entry for section 171 of EA 2002 insert—

      section 174E (statement of policy on penalties).

21.3

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), for “or 171” substitute  “,  167C , 171
or 174E” .

22

22.1

Section 61 (functions of the Payment Systems Regulator under CA 1998) is
amended as follows.

22.2

In subsection (3), after the entry for section 31D(1) to (6) of CA 1998
insert—

      section 35C  (statement of policy in relation to functions under
sections 31E, 34 and  35A );

.

22.3

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

##### The Water Services Regulation Authority (Ofwat)

23

23.1

Section 31 of the Water Industry Act 1991 (functions of Ofwat with respect to
competition) is amended as follows.

23.2

In subsection (2A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,
167C ” .

23.3

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “31D(1) to (6)”
insert  “,  35C ” .

23.4

In subsection (4), in paragraph (a), after “166” insert  “,  167C ” .

23.5

In subsection (4A), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

23.6

In subsection (8), in paragraph (b), after “31D(1) to (6)” insert  “,  35C ” .

23.7

Omit subsection (8A).

  Service and extra-territoriality of notices under CA 1998 and EA 2002

Section 144

##### Service of documents etc

1

In Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers), in Chapter 5 (supplementary), for section 126
(service of documents) substitute—

######### Service of documents by the CMA, OFCOM or the Secretary of State

1.126

1.126.1

This section applies in relation to any document required or authorised under
this Part to be served on a person by the CMA, OFCOM or the Secretary of
State.

1.126.2

The document may be served by—

1.126.2.a

delivering it to the person,

1.126.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

1.126.2.c

sending it by post to the person at that address, or

1.126.2.d

sending it to the person by email to their email address.

1.126.3

A document may be served on a body corporate by giving it to any officer of
that body.

1.126.4

A document may be served on a partnership by giving it to any partner or a
person who has the control or management of the partnership business.

1.126.5

A document may be served on an unincorporated body or association (other than
a partnership) by giving it to any member of the governing body of the
association.

1.126.6

A person’s proper address is—

1.126.6.a

in a case where the person has specified an address as one at which the
person, or someone acting on the person’s behalf, will accept service of
documents, that address;

1.126.6.b

in any other case, the address determined in accordance with  subsection (7) .

1.126.7

A person’s “proper address” is (if  subsection (6) (a)  does not apply)—

1.126.7.a

in the case of a body corporate, its registered or principal office;

1.126.7.b

in the case of a partnership, the principal office of the partnership;

1.126.7.c

in the case of an unincorporated body or association, the principal office of
the body or association;

1.126.7.d

in a case where none of  paragraphs (a)  to  (c)  apply, any address at which
the CMA, OFCOM or the Secretary of State believes, on reasonable grounds, that
the document will come to the attention of the person.

1.126.8

A person’s email address is—

1.126.8.a

any email address published for the time being by that person as an address
for contacting that person, or

1.126.8.b

if there is no such published address, any email address by means of which the
CMA, OFCOM or the Secretary of State believes, on reasonable grounds, that the
document will come to the attention of that person.

1.126.9

In the case of—

1.126.9.a

a body corporate registered outside the United Kingdom,

1.126.9.b

a partnership carrying on business outside the United Kingdom, or

1.126.9.c

any other body with offices outside the United Kingdom,

references to its principal office include references to its principal office
in the United Kingdom or, if it has no principal office in the United Kingdom,
any place in the United Kingdom where it carries on business or conducts
activities.

1.126.10

In  this section  “ officer ”, in relation to any body corporate, means a
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body.

1.126.11

This section  does not limit any other lawful means of serving a document on a
person.

2

In Part 1 of CA 1998, in Chapter 3 (investigation and enforcement), after
section 44 insert—

######### Supplementary

########## Giving of notices under Chapter 3

2.44A

Section  126  of the Enterprise Act 2002 (service of documents) applies to the
giving of notices under this Chapter as it applies to the service of documents
under Part 3 of that Act.

3

In section 61(4) of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
(functions of the Payment Systems Regulator under CA 1998), after “Part 1 of
the Competition Act 1998” insert  “(including references in provisions of the
Enterprise Act 2002 applied by that Part)” .

4

In section 62(4) of the Civil Aviation Act 2012 (functions of the Civil
Aviation Authority under CA 1998), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998”
insert  “(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002
applied by that Part)” .

5

In section 371(3) of the Communications Act 2002 (functions of OFCOM under CA
1998), in the words before paragraph (a), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act
1998” insert  “(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002
applied by that Part)” .

6

In section 86(4)(b) of the Transport Act 2000 (functions of the Civil Aviation
Authority with respect to competition), after “and 54” insert  “but including
references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 applied by that Part” .

7

In section 234J(4) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (functions
of the FCA under CA 1998), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998” insert
“(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 applied by
that Part)” .

8

In section 67(3A) of the Railways Act 1993 (functions of the Office of Rail
and Road with respect to competition), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act
1998” insert  “(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002
applied by that Part)” .

9

In section 31(4A) of the Water Industry Act 1991 (functions of Ofwat with
respect to competition), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998” insert
“(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 applied by
that Part)” .

10

In section 43(3A) of the Electricity Act 1989 (functions of Ofgem with respect
to competition), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998” insert
“(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 applied by
that Part)” .

11

In section 36A(3A) of the Gas Act 1986 (functions of Ofgem with respect to
competition), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998” insert  “(including
references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 applied by that Part)” .

12

In Article 29(5) of the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order
2006 ( S.I. 2006/3336 (N.I. 21))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority
for Utility Regulation with respect to competition), after “Part 1 of the
Competition Act 1998” insert  “(including references in provisions of the
Enterprise Act 2002 applied by that Part)” .

13

In Article 23(3A) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275
(N.I. 2))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation
with respect to competition), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998”
insert  “(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002
applied by that Part)” .

14

In Article 46(3A) of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I.
1992/231 (N.I. 1))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility
Regulation with respect to competition), after “Part 1 of the Competition Act
1998” insert  “(including references in provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002
applied by that Part)” .

##### Extra-territoriality of notices under CA 1998 and EA 2002

15

In Chapter 3 of Part 1 of CA 1998 (investigation and enforcement), after
section 44A (inserted by  paragraph 2 ) insert—

######### Extra-territorial application of notices under sections 26 and 40ZD

15.44B

15.44B.1

This section applies to the exercise of the CMA’s power to give a person a
notice under section 26 or 40ZD.

15.44B.2

The power is exercisable so as to—

15.44B.2.a

give the notice to a person who is outside the United Kingdom (subject to
subsections  (3)  and  (4) );

15.44B.2.b

require the production of a specified document, or the provision of specified
information, held outside the United Kingdom.

15.44B.3

The CMA’s power to give a notice under section 26 to a person outside the
United Kingdom by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  is exercisable only if—

15.44B.3.a

the person’s activities are being investigated as part of an investigation
under section 25, or

15.44B.3.b

the person has a UK connection.

15.44B.4

The CMA’s power to give a notice under section 40ZD to a person outside the
United Kingdom by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  is exercisable only if—

15.44B.4.a

the person is bound by transferred EU anti-trust commitments (within the
meaning of section 40ZA), or

15.44B.4.b

the person is subject to a transferred EU anti-trust direction (within the
meaning of that section).

15.44B.5

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (b) , a person has a UK connection if the
person—

15.44B.5.a

is a United Kingdom national;

15.44B.5.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom;

15.44B.5.c

is a body incorporated under the law of any part of the United Kingdom;

15.44B.5.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom.

15.44B.6

In  subsection (5) (a)  “ United Kingdom national ” means—

15.44B.6.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen;

15.44B.6.b

a person who is a British subject under the British Nationality Act 1981;

15.44B.6.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

15.44B.7

Nothing in this section is to be taken to limit any other power of the CMA to
give a notice under section 26 or 40ZD to a person outside the United Kingdom.

16

In Chapter 5 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: supplementary: investigation
powers), after section 109A insert—

######### Extra-territorial application of notices under section 109

16.109B

16.109B.1

This section applies to the exercise of the CMA’s power to give a person a
notice under section 109(2) or (3).

16.109B.2

The power is exercisable so as to—

16.109B.2.a

give the notice to a person who is outside the United Kingdom (subject to
subsection (3) );

16.109B.2.b

require the production of documents, or the supply of information, held
outside the United Kingdom.

16.109B.3

The CMA’s power to give a notice under section 109(2) or (3) to a person
outside the United Kingdom by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  is exercisable
only if—

16.109B.3.a

the person is, or was, part of, or involved with or carrying on, an enterprise
which has or may have ceased, or may cease, to be a distinct enterprise in
circumstances where a reference has been, or may be, made under section 22,
33, 45, 62, 62B or 68C, or a foreign state intervention notice has been given
under section 70A(1), in relation to the enterprise, or

16.109B.3.b

the person has a UK connection.

16.109B.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (b) , a person has a UK connection if the
person—

16.109B.4.a

is a United Kingdom national;

16.109B.4.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom;

16.109B.4.c

is a body incorporated under the law of any part of the United Kingdom;

16.109B.4.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom.

16.109B.5

Nothing in this section is to be taken to limit any other power of the CMA to
give a notice under section 109(2) or (3) to a person outside the United
Kingdom.

17

In Chapter 4 of Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations:
supplementary: investigation powers), after section 174 insert—

######### Extra-territorial application of notices under section 174

17.174ZA

17.174ZA.1

This section applies to the exercise of the CMA’s power to give a person a
notice under section 174(4) or (5).

17.174ZA.2

The power is exercisable so as to—

17.174ZA.2.a

give the notice to a person who is outside the United Kingdom (subject to
subsection (3) );

17.174ZA.2.b

require the production of documents, or the supply of information, held
outside the United Kingdom.

17.174ZA.3

The CMA’s power to give a notice under section 174(4) or (5) to a person
outside the United Kingdom by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  is exercisable
only if the person—

17.174ZA.3.a

is a United Kingdom national;

17.174ZA.3.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom;

17.174ZA.3.c

is a body incorporated under the law of any part of the United Kingdom;

17.174ZA.3.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom.

17.174ZA.4

In  subsection (3) (a)  “ United Kingdom national ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3 (see section 129(1)).

17.174ZA.5

Nothing in this section is to be taken to limit any other power of the CMA to
give a notice under section 174(4) or (5) to a person outside the United
Kingdom.

  Orders and regulations under CA 1998 and EA 2002

Section 145

##### Orders and regulations under CA 1998

1

1.1

In Part 4 of CA 1998 (supplemental and transitional), section 71 (regulations,
orders and rules) is amended as follows.

1.2

In subsection (4)—

1.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “No order is to be made” substitute
“An order made” ;

1.2.b

for the words after paragraph (e) substitute  “is subject to the affirmative
procedure” .

1.3

After subsection (4) insert—

1.3.4A

Regulations made under section  35B (7)  or 40A (7A)  are subject to the
affirmative procedure.

1.4

In subsection (5)—

1.4.a

in paragraph (a), after “(4)” insert  “or  (4A) ” ;

1.4.b

for the words after paragraph (b) substitute  “is subject to the negative
procedure” .

1.5

After subsection (5) insert—

1.5.6

Any provision that may be made by order or regulations under this Act subject
to the negative procedure may instead be made by order or regulations subject
to the affirmative procedure.

1.5.7

Where orders or regulations under this Act are subject to “the affirmative
procedure”, the orders or regulations may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

1.5.8

Where orders or regulations under this Act are subject to “the negative
procedure”, the statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment
in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Orders and regulations under Part 3 of EA 2002

2

2.1

In Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers), section 124 (orders and regulations under Part
3) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (4) omit “, 94A(6)”.

2.3

In subsection (5)—

2.3.a

omit “Regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 68A or”;

2.3.b

after “section 65(3)),” insert  “59(6A) (a) ,” ;

2.3.c

omit “, 94A(3) or (6), 111(4) or (6)”;

2.3.d

for “shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either
House of Parliament” substitute  “is subject to the negative procedure” ;

2.4

After subsection (5) insert—

2.4.5A

Regulations made under section 68A,  94AB (9)  or 111 (9)  are subject to the
negative procedure.

2.5

In subsection (6)—

2.5.a

for “No order shall be made” substitute  “An order made” ;

2.5.b

for “section 59(6A)” substitute  “section 59(6A) (b) ” ;

2.5.c

for “unless a draft of it has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, each House of Parliament” substitute  “is subject to the affirmative
procedure” .

2.6

For subsection (6A) substitute—

2.6.6A

Regulations made under section  70G ,  94AB (7)  or 111 (7A) , or  paragraph
15  of  Schedule 6B , are subject to the affirmative procedure.

2.6.6B

Any provision that may be made by order or regulations under this Part subject
to the negative procedure may instead be made by order or regulations subject
to the affirmative procedure.

2.7

After subsection (10) insert—

2.7.11

Where orders or regulations under this Part are subject to “the affirmative
procedure”, the orders or regulations may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

2.7.12

Where orders or regulations under this Act are subject to “the negative
procedure”, the statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment
in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Orders and regulations under Part 4 of EA 2002

3

3.1

In Part 4 of EA 2002 (market studies and market investigations), section 181
(orders under Part 4) is amended as follows.

3.2

In the heading, after “Orders” insert  “and regulations” .

3.3

In subsection (1), after “order” insert  “or regulations” .

3.4

In subsection (2), after “order” insert  “or regulations” .

3.5

In subsection (4)—

3.5.a

omit “174D(4) or (5)”;

3.5.b

for “section 174D” substitute  “section 174A (10) ” ;

3.5.c

for “shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either
House of Parliament” substitute  “is subject to the negative procedure” .

3.6

After subsection (4) insert—

3.6.4A

Regulations made under section  167B (9)  or 174D (11)  are subject to the
negative procedure.

3.7

In subsection (5)—

3.7.a

for “No order shall be made” substitute  “An order made” ;

3.7.b

for “unless a draft of it has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, each House of Parliament” substitute  “is subject to the affirmative
procedure” .

3.8

After subsection (5)—

3.8.5A

Regulations made under  paragraph (b)  of the definition of “qualifying
remedial action” in  section 161B (3) , or under section  167B (7)  or 174D
(6A) , are subject to the affirmative procedure.

3.8.5B

Any provision that may be made by order or regulations under this Part subject
to the negative procedure may instead be made by order or regulations subject
to the affirmative procedure.

3.9

In subsection (10), for “174D” substitute  “174A(10)” .

3.10

After subsection (10) insert—

3.10.11

Where orders or regulations under this Part are subject to “the affirmative
procedure”, the orders or regulations may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

3.10.12

Where orders or regulations under this Act are subject to “the negative
procedure”, the statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment
in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

  Consumer protection enactments

Section 150

##### Enactments

      Enactment Authorised enforcers Information about transitional etc
provision   1. Acts of Parliament Accommodation Agencies Act 1953       All
public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in
Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Section 40 of the Administration of Justice Act
1970       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department
of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in
Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of
section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate
services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office
for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Sections 4, 5 and 7 of the Cancer Act
1939       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department
of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in
Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of
section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate
services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office
for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Sections 60, 61 and 63 of the
Charities Act 1992       All public designated enforcers, other than—
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Section 7(1) and (2) of the Children
and Young Persons Act 1933       All public designated enforcers, other than—
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Section 4 of the Children and Young
Persons (Protection from Tobacco) Act 1991       All public designated
enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;
the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an
enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       In relation to Scotland, see Article 2 of the
Tobacco and Primary Medical Services (Scotland) Act 2010 (Ancillary
Provisions) Order 2010 ( S.S.I. 2010/77 ) for provision about the application
of the section in connection with its repeal Sections 319, 321, 322, 325,
368F, 368G and 368H of the Communications Act 2003       All public designated
enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       Part 41 of the
Companies Act 2006       All public designated enforcers, other than—
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Consumer Credit Act 1974       All
public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Parts 1 and 2 and Chapter 5 of Part 3 of, and Schedules 2 and 3 and Part 3 of
Schedule 5 to, the Consumer Rights Act 2015       All public designated
enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;
the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an
enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Sections 107, 198 and 297A of the Copyright
Designs and Patents Act 1988       All public designated enforcers, other
than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the
Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement
authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003
(regulation of premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard
Agency;           the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the
Secretary of State.                 All private designated enforcers.
Chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Chapter 3 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024
The following public designated enforcers—         the CMA;           every
local weights and measures authority in Great Britain;           the
Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland.             Chapter 4 of Part
4 of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024       All public
designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       Estate
Agents Act 1979       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the
Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Hallmarking Act 1973       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Malicious Communications Act 1988       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Misrepresentation Act 1967       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       See Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1630 ) for provision about the application
of provisions of the Act in connection with the coming into force of CRA 2015
Sections 13 and 16 of the National Lottery Act 1993       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Section 4 of the Prices Act 1974       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Protection from Harassment Act 1997       All
public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in
Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Sections 75 and 76 of the Road Traffic Act 1988
All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health
in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Sale of Goods Act 1979       All public designated
enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       See Article 6 of
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions,
Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1630 ) for
provision about the application of provisions of the Act in connection with
the coming into force of CRA 2015 Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
See Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3,
Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 (
S.I. 2015/1630 ) for provision about the application of provisions of the Act
in connection with the coming into force of CRA 2015 Supply of Goods and
Services Act 1982       All public designated enforcers.           All private
designated enforcers.       See Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1630 ) for provision about the application
of provisions of the Act in connection with the coming into force of CRA 2015
Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002       All public designated
enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;
the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an
enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Section 12 of the Torts (Interference with Goods)
Act 1977       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the
Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Trade Descriptions Act 1968       All
public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in
Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       See Schedule 3 to the Consumer Protection from
Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 ) for provision about the
application of provisions of the Act that have been repealed Section 92 of the
Trade Marks Act 1994       All public designated enforcers, other than—
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977
All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health
in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       See Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1630 ) for provision about the application
of provisions of the Act in connection with the coming into force of CRA 2015
Sections 21 to 23, 25, 28, 30, 31, 32, 50(5) and (6) of the Weights and
Measures Act 1985       All public designated enforcers, other than—
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       See Article 21 of the Weights and
Measures (Packaged Goods) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/659 ) for provision
about the application of provisions of the Act that have been repealed 2.
Secondary legislation Regulations 19(1) and (2) of the Alternative Dispute
Resolution for Consumer Disputes (Competent Authorities and Information)
Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/542 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       Breaching of Limits on Ticket Sales
Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/735 )       CMA       Regulations 2, 4, 13, 15
and 18 of the Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008 (
S.I. 2008/1276 )       All public designated enforcers.           All private
designated enforcers.       Civil Aviation (Access to Air Travel for Disabled
Persons and Persons with Reduced Mobility) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/2833 )
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
See regulation 8 of the Consumer Protection (Enforcement) (Amendment etc.)
Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/484 ) for provision about the application of
regulations that have been revoked     Civil Aviation (Denied Boarding,
Compensation and Assistance) Regulations 2005    ( S.I. 2005/975 )        All
public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Part 6 of the Company, Limited Liability Partnership and Business (Names and
Trading Disclosures) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/17 ), and any other
provision of the Regulations having effect for the purposes of Part 6
All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health
in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and
Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/3134 )       All public
designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 )
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Regulations 4 and 6A to 10 of the Consumer Rights (Payment Surcharges)
Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/3110 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       Regulations 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 of the
Electronic Commerce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002 ( S.I. 2002/2013 )
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Financial Services (Distance Marketing) Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/2095 )
and rules corresponding to any provisions of those Regulations made by the
Financial Conduct Authority or a designated professional body within the
meaning of section 326(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 14 of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ( S.I.
2012/1916 )       All public designated enforcers.           All private
designated enforcers.       Merchant Shipping (Passengers’ Rights) Regulations
2013 ( S.I. 2013/425 )       All public designated enforcers.           All
private designated enforcers.       Operation of Air Services (Pricing etc.)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/486 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       See regulation 8 of the Consumer
Protection (Enforcement) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/484 )
for provision about the application of regulations that have been revoked
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/634
)       All public designated enforcers.           All private designated
enforcers.       Parts 2 and 3 and regulations 18, 19, 20(1), 20(3) to 20(5),
21 to 25, 27(2) and 27(3) of, and Schedules 1 to 6 to, the Payment Accounts
Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/2038 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       Price Marking Order 2004 ( S.I.
2004/102 )       All public designated enforcers.           All private
designated enforcers.       Regulations 19 to 26, 30 and 32 of the Privacy and
Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/2426 )
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Provision of Services Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/2999 )       All public
designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       Rail
Passengers’ Rights and Obligations Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/1504 )
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Rights of Passengers in Bus and Coach Transport (Exemptions and Enforcement)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1865 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 ( S.I 2010/2960 )       All public
designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       Rules
made under sections 137A, 137R and 137T of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 which give effect to Articles 10, 11, 13 to 18 and 21 to 23, Chapter
10 and Annexes I and II of  Directive 2014/17/EU  of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers
relating to residential immovable property       All public designated
enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       3. Northern
Ireland legislation Articles 131 to 135 and 168 of the Betting, Gaming,
Lotteries and Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order 1985 ( S.I. 1985/1204 (N.I.
11))       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department
of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in
Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of
section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate
services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office
for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Bus and Coach Passengers Rights and
Obligations (Designation and Enforcement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014
( S.R. (N.I.) 2014 No 180 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       Bus and Coach Passenger Rights and
Obligations (Designation of Terminals, Tour Operators and Enforcement)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2014 No 186 )       All
public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Article 5 of the Children and Young Persons (Protection from Tobacco)
(Northern Ireland) Order 1991 ( S.I. 1991/2872 (N.I. 25))       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Articles 3 and 4 of the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 ( S.I. 1978/1907 (N.I. 26))       All
public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in
Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern
Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of section
120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Malicious Communications (Northern Ireland) Order
1988 ( S.I. 1988/1849 (N.I. 18))       All public designated enforcers, other
than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the
Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement
authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003
(regulation of premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard
Agency;           the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the
Secretary of State.                 All private designated enforcers.
Misrepresentation Act (Northern Ireland) 1967       All public designated
enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;
the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an
enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Price Marking Order (Northern Ireland) 2004 ( S.R.
(N.I.) 2004 No 368 )       All public designated enforcers.           All
private designated enforcers.       Protection from Harassment (Northern
Ireland) Order 1997 ( S.I. 1997/1180 (N.I. 9))       All public designated
enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;
the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an
enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Rail Passengers Rights and Obligations
(Designation and Enforcement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2017 ( S.R.
(N.I.) 2017 No. 84 )       All private designated enforcers.           All
public designated enforcers.       Articles 83 and 84 of the Road Traffic
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I. 1995/2994 (N.I. 18))       All public
designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;
an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       Article 19(1) to (6), 20, 22, 25(2) and 32(5) of
the Weights and Measures (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 ( S.I. 1981/231 (N.I.
10))       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department
of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in
Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of
section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate
services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office
for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       See regulation 21 of the Weights and
Measures (Packaged Goods) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 ( S.R. (N.I.)
2011 No 331 ) for provision about the application of Articles at have been
revoked 4. Assimilated direct legislation Regulation  (EC) No 261/2004  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common
rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied
boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights       All public
designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Regulation  (EC) No 1107/2006  of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 5 July 2006 concerning the rights of disabled persons and persons with
reduced mobility when travelling by air       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       Regulation  (EC) No 1371/2007  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on rail passengers’
rights and obligations       All public designated enforcers.           All
private designated enforcers.       Article 23 of Regulation  (EC) No
1008/2008  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008
on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community       All
public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Regulation (EU) No  1177/2010  of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 24 November 2010 concerning the rights of passengers when travelling by sea
and inland waterway and amending Regulation  (EC) No 2006/2004       All
public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Regulation (EU) No  181/2011  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 February 2011 concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach
transport and amending Regulation  (EC) No 2006/2004       All public
designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
Article 10(4) of  Regulation (EU) 2015/751  of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment
transactions       All public designated enforcers.           All private
designated enforcers.       5. Saved legislation Cancellation of Contracts
made in a Consumer’s Home or Place of Work etc. Regulations 2008 ( S.I.
2008/1816 )       All public designated enforcers.           All private
designated enforcers.       See regulation 2(b) of the Consumer Contracts
(Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/3134 ) for provision about the application of the Regulations in
connection with their revocation Consumer Protection (Distance Selling)
Regulations 2000 ( S.I. 2000/2334 )       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.       See regulation 2(b) of the Consumer
Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013
( S.I. 2013/3134 ) for provision about the application of the Regulations in
connection with their revocation Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package
Tours regulations 1992 ( S.I. 1992/3288 )       All public designated
enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.       See regulation
37(2) of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (
S.I. 2018/634 ) for provision about the application of the Regulations in
connection with their revocation Regulation 15 of the Pyrotechnic Articles
(Safety) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/1554 )       All public designated
enforcers, other than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;
the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an
enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate services);           the
Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office for the Traffic
Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.                 All private
designated enforcers.       See regulation 75(2) of the Pyrotechnic Articles
(Safety) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1553 ) for provision about the
application of the regulation in connection with its revocation Regulation 15
of the Sale and Supply of Goods to Consumers Regulations 2002 ( S.I. 2002/3045
)       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the Department of
Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for Infrastructure in
Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within the meaning of
section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of premium rate
services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;           the Office
for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       See Article 6 of the Consumer Rights
Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and
Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1630 ) for provision about
the application of the regulation in connection with its revocation Tobacco
Products (Manufacture, Presentation and Sale) (Safety) Regulations 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3041 )       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the
Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       See regulations 55 and 56 of the
Tobacco and Related Products Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/507 ) for provision
about the application of the Regulations in connection with their revocation
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/2083 )
All public designated enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.
See Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3,
Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 (
S.I. 2015/1630 ) for provision about the application of the Regulations in
connection with their revocation) 6. Other subordinate legislation Any other
subordinate legislation (not otherwise listed in this Schedule) so far as made
under an enactment so listed       All public designated enforcers.
All private designated enforcers.

##### Obligations and rules of law

    Obligation or rule of law Authorised enforcers   Breach of contract for
the supply of goods, services or digital content (whether or not breach is
waived)       All public designated enforcers, other than—         the
Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Breach of duty of care owed to
consumer under law of tort       All public designated enforcers, other than—
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the Department for
Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement authority within
the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of
premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the Secretary of State.
All private designated enforcers.       Breach of duty of care owed to
consumer under law of delict       All public designated enforcers, other
than—         the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;           the
Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;           an enforcement
authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the Communications Act 2003
(regulation of premium rate services);           the Maritime and Coastguard
Agency;           the Office for the Traffic Commissioner;           the
Secretary of State.                 All private designated enforcers.
Any rule of law in Scotland which provides comparable protection to section 13
of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982       All public designated
enforcers.           All private designated enforcers.

  Direct enforcement enactments

Section 150

    Enactment Extent   1. Acts of Parliament Consumer Credit Act 1974 The
whole Act Consumer Rights Act 2015 Parts 1 and 2 Chapter 5 of Part 3 Schedules
2 and 3 Part 3 of Schedule 5 Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 Chapters 1, 2 and 3 of Part 4 Sale of Goods Act 1979 Sections 1 to 10
Section 11 (other than subsection (4)) Sections 16 to 19 Sections 20A and 20B
Sections 21 to 28 Section 29 (other than subsection (3)) Section 34 Section 37
Part 5 Sections 49 and 50 Section 57 Sections 60 to 62 2. Secondary
legislation and assimilated direct legislation Business Protection from
Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008 Regulations 2, 4, 13, 15 and 18 Consumer
Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013
All regulations Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 All
regulations Consumer Rights (Payment Surcharges) Regulations 2012 Regulations
4 and 6A to 10 Electronic Commerce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002 Regulations
6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 Regulation (EU) 2015/751  of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment
transactions Article 10(4) Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements
Regulations 2018 All regulations Price Marking Order 2004 The whole Order
Price Marking Order (Northern Ireland) 2004 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2004 No 368 ) The
whole Order Provision of Services Regulations 2009 All regulations Timeshare,
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 All
regulations 3. Saved legislation Sale of Goods Act 1979 The whole Act, so far
as it continues to apply by virtue of the saving made by Article 6(1) of the
Consumer Rights Act (Commencement No 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and
Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 The
whole Act, so far as it continues to apply by virtue of the saving made by
Article 6(1) of the Consumer Rights Act (Commencement No 3, Transitional
Provisions, Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 Supply of Goods
(Implied Terms Act) 1973 The whole Act, so far as it continues to apply by
virtue of the saving made by Article 6(1) of the Consumer Rights Act
(Commencement No 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015 Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 The whole Act, so far as
it continues to apply by virtue of the saving made by Article 6(1) of the
Consumer Rights Act (Commencement No 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and
Consequential Amendments) Order 2015 Cancellation of Contracts made in a
Consumer’s Home or Place of Work etc Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1816 ) All
regulations (see regulation 2(b) of the Consumer Contracts (Information,
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/3134 ) for
provision about the application of the Regulations in connection with
contracts entered into before 13th June 2014). Consumer Protection (Distance
Selling) Regulations 2000 ( S.I. 2000/2334 ) All regulations (see regulation
2(a) of the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional
Charges) Regulations 2013 for provision about the application of the
Regulations in connection with contracts entered into before 13th June 2014).
Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours Regulations 1992 ( S.I.
1992/3288 ) All regulations (see regulation 37(2) of the Package Travel and
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/634 ) for provision
about the application of the Regulations in connection with their revocation)
Sale and Supply of Goods to Consumers Regulations 2002 ( S.I. 2002/3045 )
Regulation 15 (see Article 6(3) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement
No 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order
2015 for provision about the application of the Regulation in connection with
its revocation) Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 ( S.I.
1999/2083 ) All regulations (see Article 6(4) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015 for provision about the application of the Regulations
in connection with their revocation) 4. Other subordinate legislation Any
other subordinate legislation (not otherwise listed in this Schedule) so far
as made under an enactment so listed The entirety of the legislation.

  Investigatory powers

Section 208

##### Introductory

1

Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 (investigatory powers) is amended as follows.

##### Penalties for non-compliance with information notices

2

2.1

Paragraph 15 is amended in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) .

2.2

In sub-paragraph  (3) —

2.2.a

in the opening words for “may” substitute  “must” ;

2.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

2.2.b.c

the circumstances in which a monetary penalty may be payable under this Part
of this Schedule in relation to non-compliance with the notice.

2.3

After paragraph 16 insert—

########### Non-compliance with notice under paragraph 14: power of court to impose monetary penalties

2.3.16A

2.3.16A.1

This paragraph applies where—

2.3.16A.1.a

an enforcer or an officer of an enforcer has given a notice to a person (“ the
respondent ”) under paragraph 14, and

2.3.16A.1.b

the enforcer considers that the respondent has, without reasonable excuse,
failed to comply with the notice.

2.3.16A.2

The enforcer or an officer of the enforcer may make an application under this
paragraph to the court.

2.3.16A.3

If the court finds that the respondent has, without reasonable excuse, failed
to comply with the notice, the court may make an order that requires the
respondent to pay a monetary penalty to the enforcer.

2.3.16A.4

The amount of the penalty must be—

2.3.16A.4.a

a fixed amount,

2.3.16A.4.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

2.3.16A.4.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

2.3.16A.5

The penalty must not exceed—

2.3.16A.5.a

in the case of a fixed amount, £30,000 or, if higher, 1% of the total value of
the turnover (if any) of the respondent;

2.3.16A.5.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, £15,000 per
day or, if higher, 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (if any) of the
respondent;

2.3.16A.5.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, such fixed amount and such amount per day.

2.3.16A.6

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

2.3.16A.6.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the notification date, and

2.3.16A.6.b

unless the court determines an earlier date (whether before or after the order
imposing the penalty is made), the amount payable ceases to accumulate on the
day on which the requirements of the notice under paragraph 14 are complied
with.

2.3.16A.7

An order under this paragraph, or a notice accompanying service of the order,
must state—

2.3.16A.7.a

the amount of the penalty (including whether it is a fixed amount, an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate or both a fixed amount and an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate);

2.3.16A.7.b

the grounds on which the penalty is imposed together with any other factors
that the court considers justify the giving of the penalty or its amount;

2.3.16A.7.c

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, the day on
which the amount first starts to accumulate and the day or days on which it
might cease to accumulate;

2.3.16A.7.d

how the penalty is to be paid to the enforcer;

2.3.16A.7.e

the date or dates, no earlier than the end of 28 days beginning with the date
of service of the order on the respondent, by which the penalty or (as the
case may be) different portions of it are required to be paid;

2.3.16A.7.f

that the penalty or (as the case may be) different portions of it may be paid
earlier than the date or dates by which it or they are required to be paid;

2.3.16A.7.g

that the respondent has the right to apply under sub-paragraph  (8) , and the
rights available to the respondent to appeal against the order, and the main
details of those rights.

2.3.16A.8

The respondent may, within 14 days of the date on which an order under this
paragraph is served on the respondent, apply to the court for it to specify a
different date or dates by which the penalty, or portions of it, are to be
paid.

2.3.16A.9

An application by an enforcer or officer of an enforcer under this paragraph—

2.3.16A.9.a

may be made in addition to, or instead of, an application under paragraph 16,
and

2.3.16A.9.b

where made in addition to an application under paragraph 16, may be combined
with the application under that paragraph.

2.3.16A.10

In addition to any right of appeal on a point of law, a person liable to pay a
penalty by virtue of an order under this paragraph may appeal in respect of
the amount of the penalty.

2.3.16A.11

Where an appeal is brought in respect of a penalty imposed by virtue of an
order under this paragraph, the penalty is not payable until the appeal is
determined or withdrawn, unless the court dealing with the appeal orders
otherwise.

2.3.16A.12

Sub-paragraphs (4) and (5) of paragraph 16 apply to an order under this
paragraph as they apply to an order under that paragraph.

2.3.16A.13

In the application of this paragraph to Scotland, the references in sub-
paragraphs  (7)  and  (8)  to an order being served include service of an
extract order in execution of or diligence on the order.

2.3.16A.14

In this paragraph, other than in sub-paragraph  (11) —

      “ the court ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 16;           “ the
notification date ”, in relation to an order under this paragraph, means the
date on which notice of the application for the order is given to the
respondent.

########### Non-compliance with notice under paragraph 14: powers of CMA to give provisional enforcement notice

2.3.16B

2.3.16B.1

This paragraph applies where—

2.3.16B.1.a

the CMA has given a notice to a person (“ the respondent ”) under paragraph
14, and

2.3.16B.1.b

the CMA has reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent has failed to
comply with the notice.

2.3.16B.2

The CMA may give to the respondent a notice under this paragraph (a
“provisional enforcement notice”).

2.3.16B.3

A provisional enforcement notice must—

2.3.16B.3.a

set out the grounds on which it is given, including the respondent’s acts or
omissions giving rise to the giving of the notice;

2.3.16B.3.b

specify such actions as the CMA considers appropriate to be taken by the
respondent for the purposes of securing compliance with the notice under
paragraph 14;

2.3.16B.3.c

invite the respondent to make representations to the CMA about the matters set
out in the notice;

2.3.16B.3.d

specify the means by which, and the time by which, such representations must
be made.

2.3.16B.4

The means specified under sub-paragraph  (3) (d)  for making representations
must include arrangements for them to be made orally if the respondent chooses
to make representations in that way.

2.3.16B.5

If the CMA is considering the imposition of a monetary penalty on the
respondent (see paragraph  16C ), the provisional enforcement notice must also
state—

2.3.16B.5.a

that the CMA is considering imposing a monetary penalty;

2.3.16B.5.b

the proposed amount of the penalty (including whether the penalty would be a
fixed amount, an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate or both a
fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate);

2.3.16B.5.c

any further factors (in addition to those provided under sub-paragraph  (3)
(a) ) which the CMA considers justify the imposition of the proposed penalty
and its amount or amounts.

########### Non-compliance with notice under paragraph 14: power of CMA to give final enforcement notice

2.3.16C

2.3.16C.1

This paragraph applies where—

2.3.16C.1.a

the CMA has given to the respondent a provisional enforcement notice under
paragraph 16B in respect of a notice given to the respondent under paragraph
14,

2.3.16C.1.b

the time for the respondent to make representations to the CMA in accordance
with the provisional enforcement notice has expired, and

2.3.16C.1.c

after considering such representations (if any), the CMA is satisfied that the
respondent has failed to comply with the notice given under paragraph 14.

2.3.16C.2

The CMA may by notice (a “final enforcement notice”) impose on the respondent
a requirement to do either or both of the following—

2.3.16C.2.a

a requirement to pay a monetary penalty;

2.3.16C.2.b

a requirement to comply with such directions as the CMA considers appropriate
for the purpose of securing the respondent’s compliance with the notice under
paragraph 14.

2.3.16C.3

A requirement under sub-paragraph  (2) (a)  to pay a monetary penalty may be
imposed only if the CMA is satisfied that the respondent’s failure in question
is without reasonable excuse.

2.3.16C.4

The amount of a monetary penalty must be—

2.3.16C.4.a

a fixed amount,

2.3.16C.4.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or

2.3.16C.4.c

a combination of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

2.3.16C.5

The penalty must not exceed—

2.3.16C.5.a

in the case of a fixed amount, £30,000 or, if higher, 1% of the total value of
the turnover (if any) of the respondent;

2.3.16C.5.b

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, £15,000 per
day or, if higher, 5% of the total value of the daily turnover (if any) of the
respondent;

2.3.16C.5.c

in the case of a fixed amount and an amount calculated by reference to a daily
rate, such fixed amount and such amount per day.

2.3.16C.6

In imposing a penalty by reference to a daily rate—

2.3.16C.6.a

no account is to be taken of any days before the date on which the provisional
enforcement notice mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  was given to the
respondent, and

2.3.16C.6.b

unless the CMA determines an earlier date, the amount payable ceases to
accumulate on the day on which the requirements of the notice under paragraph
14 are complied with.

2.3.16C.7

A final enforcement notice that imposes a penalty on the respondent must
state—

2.3.16C.7.a

the amount of the penalty (including whether it is a fixed amount, an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate or both a fixed amount and an amount
calculated by reference to a daily rate);

2.3.16C.7.b

the grounds on which the penalty is imposed together with any other factors
that the CMA considers justify the giving of the penalty or its amount;

2.3.16C.7.c

in the case of an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, the day on
which the amount first starts to accumulate and the day or days on which it
might cease to accumulate;

2.3.16C.7.d

how the penalty is to be paid to the CMA;

2.3.16C.7.e

the date or dates, no earlier than the end of 28 days beginning with the date
of service of the notice on the respondent, by which the penalty or (as the
case may be) different portions of it are required to be paid;

2.3.16C.7.f

that the penalty or (as the case may be) different portions of it may be paid
earlier than the date or dates by which it or they are required to be paid;

2.3.16C.7.g

that the respondent has the right to apply under sub-paragraph  (8) , or to
appeal under paragraph  16D , and the main details of those rights.

2.3.16C.8

The respondent may, within 14 days of the date of service of the notice, apply
to the CMA for it to specify a different date or dates by which the penalty,
or different portions of it, are to be paid.

2.3.16C.9

In deciding whether, and if so how, to proceed under this paragraph the CMA
must have regard to the statement of policy most recently published under
paragraph  16F  at the time of the act or omission giving rise to the penalty.

2.3.16C.10

The CMA may publish a notice given under this paragraph in such manner as it
considers appropriate.

2.3.16C.11

Sections  191  to  196  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 apply to a direction given in a notice under this paragraph as if the
direction were an enforcement direction for the purposes of those sections.

########### Appeals against final enforcement notice

2.3.16D

2.3.16D.1

A person to whom a final enforcement notice is given may appeal to the
appropriate court against—

2.3.16D.1.a

a decision to impose a monetary penalty by virtue of the notice,

2.3.16D.1.b

the nature or amount of any such penalty, or

2.3.16D.1.c

the giving of directions by virtue of the notice.

2.3.16D.2

The grounds for an appeal under sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  or  (b)  are that—

2.3.16D.2.a

the decision to impose a monetary penalty was based on an error of fact,

2.3.16D.2.b

the decision was wrong in law,

2.3.16D.2.c

the amount of the penalty is unreasonable, or

2.3.16D.2.d

the decision was unreasonable or wrong for any other reason.

2.3.16D.3

The grounds for an appeal under sub-paragraph  (1) (c)  are that—

2.3.16D.3.a

the decision to give the directions was based on an error of fact,

2.3.16D.3.b

the decision was wrong in law,

2.3.16D.3.c

the nature of the directions is unreasonable, or

2.3.16D.3.d

the decision was unreasonable or wrong for any other reason.

2.3.16D.4

On an appeal under this paragraph the appropriate court may quash, confirm or
vary the final enforcement notice.

2.3.16D.5

An appeal under this paragraph must be brought before the end of the period of
28 days beginning with the day on which the final enforcement notice was given
to the person seeking to bring the appeal.

2.3.16D.6

The appropriate court may extend the period mentioned in sub-paragraph  (5)
for bringing an appeal.

2.3.16D.7

Where an appeal is brought under this paragraph, the penalty is not payable
until the appeal is determined or withdrawn, unless the appropriate court
orders otherwise.

2.3.16D.8

In this paragraph “ the appropriate court ” means—

2.3.16D.8.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the High Court, and

2.3.16D.8.b

in relation to Scotland, the Outer House of the Court of Session.

########### Recovery of penalties imposed under paragraph 

2.3.16E

2.3.16E.1

This paragraph applies where a penalty imposed by a final enforcement notice
given under paragraph  16C , or any part of such a penalty, has not been paid
by the date on which it is required to be paid and—

2.3.16E.1.a

an appeal under paragraph  16D  has not been brought before the end of the
period mentioned in sub-paragraph (5) of that paragraph, or

2.3.16E.1.b

any such appeal that was brought has been determined, withdrawn or otherwise
disposed of.

2.3.16E.2

The CMA may recover from the person on whom the penalty was imposed any of the
penalty and any interest which has not been paid.

2.3.16E.3

Any such penalty and interest may be recovered summarily (or, in Scotland,
recovered) as a civil debt by the CMA.

########### Statement of policy in relation to penalties under paragraph 

2.3.16F

2.3.16F.1

The CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the use
of its power to impose penalties under paragraph  16C .

2.3.16F.2

The statement must include a statement about the considerations relevant to
the determination of—

2.3.16F.2.a

whether to impose a penalty under that paragraph, and

2.3.16F.2.b

the nature and amount of any such penalty.

2.3.16F.3

The CMA may revise its statement of policy and, where it does so, must publish
the revised statement.

2.3.16F.4

In preparing or revising its statement of policy the CMA must consult—

2.3.16F.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

2.3.16F.4.b

such other persons as the CMA considers appropriate.

2.3.16F.5

A statement of policy, or revised statement, may not be published under this
paragraph without the approval of the Secretary of State.

########### Penalties imposed under paragraphs 

2.3.16G

2.3.16G.1

If the whole or any portion of a penalty is not paid by the date by which it
is required to be paid, the unpaid balance from time to time carries interest
at the statutory rate.

2.3.16G.2

Where an application has been made under paragraph  16A (8)  or  16C (8) , the
penalty is not required to be paid until the application has been determined,
withdrawn or otherwise disposed of.

2.3.16G.3

If a portion of a penalty has not been paid by the date required for it, the
enforcer to whom it is payable may, where it considers it appropriate to do
so, require so much of the penalty as has not already been paid (and is
capable of being paid immediately) to be paid immediately.

2.3.16G.4

Where on an appeal under paragraph  16D  the appropriate court substitutes a
penalty of a different nature or of a lesser amount, the court may require the
payment of interest at the statutory rate on the substituted penalty from
whatever date it considers appropriate (which may include a date before the
determination of the appeal).

2.3.16G.5

In the case of a monetary penalty imposed on a firm, the penalty is to be paid
out of the assets or funds of the firm.

2.3.16G.6

Sums received from a person towards payment of a monetary penalty must be
paid—

2.3.16G.6.a

in the case of a penalty imposed by an order of the Court of Session or the
Sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund;

2.3.16G.6.b

in the case of a penalty imposed by an order of a court in Northern Ireland,
into the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland;

2.3.16G.6.c

in any other case, into the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom.

2.3.16G.7

In this paragraph—

      “ penalty ” means a penalty imposed under paragraph  16A  or  16C ;
“ statutory rate ” means the rate for the time being specified in section 17
of the Judgments Act 1838.

########### Meaning of “turnover” for purposes of paragraphs 

2.3.16H

2.3.16H.1

References to “turnover” of a person in paragraphs  16A  and  16C  include—

2.3.16H.1.a

turnover both in and outside the United Kingdom;

2.3.16H.1.b

where the person controls another person, the turnover of that other person;

2.3.16H.1.c

where the person is controlled by another person, the turnover of that other
person.

2.3.16H.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

2.3.16H.2.a

make provision for determining when a person is to be treated as controlled by
another person for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) ;

2.3.16H.2.b

make provision for determining the turnover of a person for those purposes.

2.3.16H.3

Regulations under this paragraph may, in particular, make provision as to—

2.3.16H.3.a

the amounts which are, or which are not, to be treated as comprising a
person’s turnover or daily turnover;

2.3.16H.3.b

the date or dates by references to which a person’s turnover or daily turnover
is to be determined.

2.3.16H.4

Regulations under this paragraph may include provision enabling the court
(within the meaning of paragraph  16A ) or the CMA to determine matters of a
description specified in the regulations (including any of the matters
mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of sub-paragraph (3) ).

2.3.16H.5

Regulations under this paragraph are to be made by statutory instrument.

2.3.16H.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this paragraph is subject
to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

########### Power to amend amounts

2.3.16I

2.3.16I.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the following provisions of
this Schedule for the purpose of substituting a different monetary amount for
an amount of fixed or daily penalty for the time being specified—

2.3.16I.1.a

paragraph  16A (5) (a)  and  (b) ;

2.3.16I.1.b

paragraph  16C (5) (a)  and  (b) .

2.3.16I.2

Before making regulations under this paragraph the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

2.3.16I.3

Regulations under this paragraph are to be made by statutory instrument.

2.3.16I.4

Regulations under this paragraph may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

########### Miscellaneous

2.3.16J

2.3.16J.1

The CMA may not make an application under paragraph  16A  in respect of a
person’s failure to comply with a notice under paragraph 14 if the CMA has
given to the person a final enforcement notice under paragraph  16C  in
respect of that failure.

2.3.16J.2

The CMA may not give a person a final enforcement notice under paragraph  16C
in respect of a failure to comply with a notice under paragraph 14 if—

2.3.16J.2.a

the CMA has made an application under paragraph  16A  against the person in
respect of that failure, and

2.3.16J.2.b

the application has been determined by the court (within the meaning of that
paragraph).

##### Extra-territorial application in relation to notices

3

After paragraph 17 insert—

######### Extra-territorial application in relation to notices under paragraph 14

3.17A

3.17A.1

This paragraph applies to the exercise of a power of an enforcer to give a
person a notice under paragraph 14.

3.17A.2

The power is exercisable so as to—

3.17A.2.a

give the notice to a person who is outside the United Kingdom;

3.17A.2.b

require the provision of information held outside the United Kingdom.

3.17A.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies where—

3.17A.3.a

an enforcer proposes to give a notice to a person outside the United Kingdom
by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2) (a) , and

3.17A.3.b

the enforcer does not consider that the person is a potential enforcement
subject.

3.17A.4

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the power to give the notice is exercisable
only if the person has a UK connection.

3.17A.5

A person has a UK connection if the person—

3.17A.5.a

is a United Kingdom national,

3.17A.5.b

is an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

3.17A.5.c

is a firm established in the United Kingdom, or

3.17A.5.d

carries on business in the United Kingdom or by any means directs activities
in the course of carrying on a business to consumers in the United Kingdom.

3.17A.6

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) (b)  a person (P) is a “ potential
enforcement subject ”, in relation to a notice given by an enforcer to P by
virtue of this paragraph, if the notice is given for the purposes of enabling
the enforcer—

3.17A.6.a

to exercise, or consider whether to exercise, a function mentioned in
paragraph 13(2), (3), (7)(a) or (9)(b) in relation to P;

3.17A.6.b

to ascertain whether P has breached any legislation mentioned in paragraph
13(4);

3.17A.6.c

to ascertain whether P has complied with, or is complying with, an injunction
or interdict mentioned in paragraph 13(7)(b);

3.17A.6.d

to determine whether to make an order of a kind mentioned in paragraph
13(9)(a) in respect of, or in relation to, P.

3.17A.7

In sub-paragraph  (5) (a)  “ United Kingdom national ” means—

3.17A.7.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen;

3.17A.7.b

a person who is a British subject under the British Nationality Act 1981;

3.17A.7.c

a British protection person within the meaning of that Act.

3.17A.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (5) (c) , a firm is “established in the
United Kingdom” if—

3.17A.8.a

it is incorporated or formed under the law of a part of the United Kingdom, or

3.17A.8.b

it is administered under arrangements governed by the law of a part of the
United Kingdom.

3.17A.9

References in this paragraph to an enforcer include an officer of an enforcer.

##### Means of giving notices

4

After paragraph 17A (inserted by paragraph 3 above) insert—

######### Means of giving notice under this Part of this Schedule

4.17B

4.17B.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a notice given to a person under this
Part of this Schedule.

4.17B.2

The notice may be given by—

4.17B.2.a

delivering it to the person,

4.17B.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

4.17B.2.c

sending it by post to the person at that address, or

4.17B.2.d

sending it to the person by email to the person’s email address.

4.17B.3

A notice to a body corporate may be given in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2)  to any officer of that body.

4.17B.4

A notice to a partnership may be given in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)
to any partner or a person who has the control or management of the
partnership business.

4.17B.5

A notice to a firm other than a body corporate or a partnership may be given
in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)  to any member of the governing body of
the firm.

4.17B.6

A person’s proper address is—

4.17B.6.a

in a case where the person has specified an address as one at which the
person, or someone acting on the person’s behalf, will accept service of
notices or other documents, that address;

4.17B.6.b

in any other case, the address determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(7) .

4.17B.7

A person’s proper address is (if sub-paragraph  (6) (a)  does not apply)—

4.17B.7.a

in the case of a body corporate, its registered or principal office;

4.17B.7.b

in the case of a partnership, the principal office of the partnership;

4.17B.7.c

in the case of a firm other than a body corporate or a partnership, the
principal office of the firm;

4.17B.7.d

in a case where none of paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  apply, any address by means
of which the enforcer or officer giving the notice believes, on reasonable
grounds, that the notice will come to the attention of the person.

4.17B.8

A person’s email address is—

4.17B.8.a

any email address published for the time being by that person as an address
for contacting that person, or

4.17B.8.b

if there is no such published address, any email address by means of which the
enforcer or officer giving the notice believes, on reasonable grounds, that
the notice will come to the attention of that person.

4.17B.9

In the case of—

4.17B.9.a

a body corporate registered outside the United Kingdom,

4.17B.9.b

a partnership carrying on business outside the United Kingdom, or

4.17B.9.c

any other type of firm with offices outside the United Kingdom,

references to its principal office include references to its principal office
in the United Kingdom or, if it has no principal office in the United Kingdom,
any place in the United Kingdom where it carries on business or conducts
activities.

4.17B.10

In this paragraph “ officer ”, in relation to a body corporate, means any
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body.

4.17B.11

This paragraph does not limit other lawful means of giving notice.

##### Access to documents

5

In paragraph 32—

5.a

in sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “on” insert  “,
or accessible from,” ;

5.b

in sub-paragraph (5)—

5.b.i

after “documents on” insert  “, or accessible from,” , and

5.b.ii

after “with” insert  “, or access to them would otherwise be restricted,” .

##### Meaning of “firm”

6

In paragraph 8, after the definition of “enforcement order” insert—

      “ firm ” means any entity, whether or not a legal person, that is not an
individual and includes a body corporate, a corporation sole and a partnership
or other unincorporated association;

.

  Part 3 : minor and consequential amendments

Section 214

##### Estate Agents Act 1979

1

In section 3 of the Estate Agents Act 1979 (orders prohibiting unfit persons
from doing estate agency work), in subsection (1)—

1.a

in paragraph (ba) for “section 217, 218 or 219 of the Enterprise Act 2002”
substitute  “section  156 ,  159 ,  163  or  185  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

1.b

in paragraph (bb) for “section 217 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute
“section  156  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

1.c

after paragraph (bb) insert—

1.c.bc

has failed to comply with a requirement imposed by a final infringement notice
given under section  182  of that Act in relation to estate agency work; or

.

##### Companies Act 1985

2

2.1

Schedule 15D to the Companies Act 1985 is amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph 20—

2.2.a

for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter 3 or 4 of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

2.2.b

for “that Part” substitute  “that Chapter” .

2.3

In paragraph 27 for “section 230(2) of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute
“section  171 (2)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024”
.

##### Enterprise Act 2002

3

EA 2002 is amended as follows.

4

Omit Part 8 (including Schedule 13).

5

In section 238 (information), in subsection (1), in paragraph (a) for “, 7 or
8” substitute  “or 7” .

6

In section 243 (overseas disclosures), in subsection (3)(a) for the words from
“designated” to the end substitute  “a private designated enforcer for the
purposes of Chapter  3  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024” .

7

In Schedule 14 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the appropriate
place insert—

      Chapters  3  and  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024.

8

In Schedule 15 (enactments conferring functions) at the appropriate place
insert—

      Chapters  3  and  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024.

##### Companies Act 2006

9

9.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

9.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 2—

9.2.a

in paragraph 28—

9.2.a.i

for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter  3  or  4  of
Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

9.2.a.ii

for “that Part” substitute  “that Chapter” ;

9.2.b

in paragraph 36 for the words after “under” to the end substitute  “section
171 (2)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

9.3

In Schedule 11A—

9.3.a

in paragraph 42, for the words after “under” to the end substitute  “Chapter
3  or  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 (enforcement of consumer protection law)” ;

9.3.b

in paragraph 51 for the words after “under” to the end substitute  “section
171 (2)  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (notice of
intention to prosecute etc)” .

##### Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008

10

In Schedule 3 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008, at the
appropriate place insert—

      Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024, Chapters  3  and  4
of  Part 3

.

##### Consumer Rights Act 2015

11

11.1

Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 (investigatory powers) is amended as follows.

11.2

In paragraph 2—

11.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), omit paragraph (b);

11.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2) for paragraph (b) substitute—

11.2.b.b

an authorised enforcer for the purposes of that Part (see paragraph 20(7)).

11.3

Omit paragraph 4 (including the heading before it).

11.4

In paragraph 5 for the words from “which—” to the end substitute

which is a public designated enforcer for the purposes of Chapter  3  of  Part
3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (see section
151 (1)  of that Act), but for this purpose does not include—

11.4.a

the Competition and Markets Authority,

11.4.b

a local weights and measures authority in Great Britain, or

11.4.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland.

11.5

In paragraph 8—

11.5.a

omit the definition of “Schedule 13 infringement”;

11.5.b

in the definition of “enforcement order” for “section 217 of the Enterprise
Act 2002” substitute  “ section 156  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.5.c

in the definition of “interim enforcement order” for “section 218” substitute
“ section 159 ” ;

11.5.d

in the definition of “interim online interface order” for “section 218ZC”
substitute  “ section 162 ” ;

11.5.e

in the definition of “online interface order” for “section 218ZB” substitute
“ section 161 ” .

11.6

In paragraph 13—

11.6.a

in sub-paragraph (2)—

11.6.a.i

in paragraph (a) for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter
3  or  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024” ;

11.6.a.ii

in paragraph (b) after “under” insert  “Chapter 3 of” ;

11.6.a.iii

in paragraph (e) for the words from “section 217(9),” to the end substitute
“Chapter  3  or  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.6.b

in sub-paragraph (3)—

11.6.b.i

in the opening words, for “Britain,” substitute  “Britain or”  and omit “or a
Schedule 13 enforcer other than the Competition and Markets Authority”;

11.6.b.ii

in paragraph (a) for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter
3  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.6.b.iii

in paragraph (c) for “section 217(9) or 218(10) of the Enterprise Act 2002”
substitute  “ section 156 (2) (b)  or  section 159 (2) (b)  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.6.b.iv

in paragraph (d) for “section 219” substitute  “ section 163 ” ;

11.6.c

in sub-paragraph (10) for the words from “which—” to the end substitute
“which is a private designated enforcer for the purposes of Chapter  3  of
Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (see
section 151 (2)  of that Act)” .

11.7

In the heading to Part 4 (before paragraph 19), for “Schedule 13” substitute
“authorised” .

11.8

In the heading before paragraph 20, for “Schedule 13” substitute  “authorised”
.

11.9

In paragraph 20—

11.9.a

in sub-paragraph (1) for “a Schedule 13” substitute  “an authorised” ;

11.9.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

11.9.b.i

for “a Schedule 13”, where it first occurs, substitute  “an authorised” ;

11.9.b.ii

for the words from “Part 8” to the end substitute  “Chapter  3  or  4  of
Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.9.c

in sub-paragraph (3)—

11.9.c.i

in the opening words, for “Schedule 13” substitute  “authorised” ;

11.9.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “Schedule 13” substitute  “relevant” ;

11.9.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “section 217(9) or 218(10) of the Enterprise Act 2002”
substitute  “ section 156 (2) (b)  or  section 159 (2) (b)  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.9.c.iv

in paragraph (d), for “section 219” substitute  “ section 163 ” ;

11.9.d

in sub-paragraph (3A)—

11.9.d.i

in the opening words, for “A Schedule 13” substitute  “An authorised” ;

11.9.d.ii

in paragraph (b) for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter
3  or  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024” ;

11.9.e

in sub-paragraph (4)—

11.9.e.i

in the opening words, for “A Schedule 13” substitute  “An authorised” ;

11.9.e.ii

in paragraph (b) for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter
3  or  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024” ;

11.9.f

in sub-paragraph (5)—

11.9.f.i

in the opening words, for “A Schedule 13” substitute  “An authorised” ;

11.9.f.ii

in paragraph (a) for “Schedule 13” substitute  “relevant” ;

11.9.f.iii

in paragraph (b) for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter
3  or  4  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024” ;

11.9.g

in sub-paragraph (6)—

11.9.g.i

for “A Schedule 13” substitute  “An authorised” ;

11.9.g.ii

for “Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002” substitute  “Chapter  3  or  4  of
Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

11.9.h

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

11.9.h.7

Each of the following is an “ authorised enforcer ” for the purposes of this
Part of this Schedule—

11.9.h.7.a

the Competition and Markets Authority;

11.9.h.7.b

the Civil Aviation Authority;

11.9.h.7.c

the Financial Conduct Authority;

11.9.h.7.d

the Secretary of State;

11.9.h.7.e

the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;

11.9.h.7.f

the Office of Communications;

11.9.h.7.g

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland;

11.9.h.7.h

every local weights and measures authority in Great Britain;

11.9.h.7.i

an enforcement authority within the meaning of section 120(15) of the
Communications Act 2003;

11.9.h.7.j

the Information Commissioner;

11.9.h.7.k

the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland;

11.9.h.7.l

the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;

11.9.h.7.m

the Office of Rail and Road;

11.9.h.7.n

the Office for the Traffic Commissioner.

11.9.h.8

In this paragraph “ relevant infringement ” means an act or omission which is
a relevant infringement for the purposes of Chapter  3  of  Part 3  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 by virtue of contravening
an enactment listed in paragraph 20A of this Schedule.

11.10

After paragraph 20 insert—

########### Paragraph 20: listed enactments

11.10.20A

The enactments referred to in paragraph 20(8) are the following—

      Sections 9 to 11 of the Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973, to the
extent that those sections continue to apply to a contract for a trader to
supply goods to a consumer by virtue of the saving made, in connection with
their amendment by this Act, by Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015.           The Consumer Credit Act 1974 and secondary
legislation made under that Act excluding requirements relating to consumer
hire agreements.           Sections 6(2), 7(1), 7(2), 20(2), 21 and 27(2) of
the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, to the extent that those sections remain
in force, or continue to apply to a consumer contract, by virtue of the saving
made, in connection with their repeal or disapplication by this Act, by
Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3, Transitional
Provisions, Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015.
Sections 13 to 15, 15B, 20 and 32 of the Sale of Goods Act 1979, to the extent
that those sections continue to apply to a contract for a trader to supply
goods to a consumer by virtue of the saving made, in connection with their
amendment by this Act, by Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015.           Sections 48A to 48F of the Sale of Goods Act
1979, to the extent that those sections remain in force by virtue of the
saving made, in connection with their repeal by this Act, by Article 6 of the
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings
and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015.           Sections 3 to 5, 11C to
11E and 13 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982, and any rule of law
in Scotland which provides comparable protection to section 13, to the extent
that those sections continue to apply to a contract for a trader to supply
goods or, in the case of section 13, a contract for a trader to supply a
service, to a consumer by virtue of the saving made, in connection with their
amendment by this Act, by Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015.           Sections 11M to 11S of the Supply of Goods
and Services Act 1982 to the extent that those sections remain in force by
virtue of the saving made, in connection with their repeal by this Act, by
Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3, Transitional
Provisions, Savings and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015.           The
Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours Regulations 1992, to the
extent that those Regulations remain in force by virtue of the saving made, in
connection with their revocation, by regulation 37(2) of the Package Travel
and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018.           The Unfair Terms in
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999, to the extent that those Regulations
remain in force by virtue of the saving made, in connection with their
revocation by this Act, by Article 6 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2015.           Rules made under sections 137A, 137R and
137T of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 which give effect to
Articles 10, 11, 13 to 18 and 21 to 23, Chapter 10 and Annexes I and II of
Directive 2014/17/EU  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4
February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers relating to residential
immovable property.           The Consumer Protection (Distance Selling)
Regulations 2000, to the extent that those Regulations remain in force for
contracts entered into prior to their disapplication by virtue of regulation
2(a) of the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional
Charges) Regulations 2013.           Sections 319, 321, 322, 325, 368F, 368G
and 368H of the Communications Act 2003.           Regulations 6, 7, 8, 9 and
11 of the Electronic Commerce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002.
Regulation 15 of the Sale and Supply of Goods to Consumers Regulations 2002,
to the extent that regulation 15 remains in force by virtue of the saving
made, in connection with its revocation by the this Act, by Article 6 of the
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (Commencement No. 3, Transitional Provisions, Savings
and Consequential Amendments) Order 2015.           Regulations 19 to 26, 30
and 32 of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations
2003.           The Price Marking Order 2004.           Regulation  (EC) No
261/2004  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004
establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers in
the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights.
The Financial Services (Distance Marketing) Regulations 2004 and rules
corresponding to any provisions of those Regulations made by the Financial
Conduct Authority or a designated professional body within the meaning of
section 326(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.           The
Price Marking Order (Northern Ireland) 2004.           The Civil Aviation
(Denied Boarding, Compensation and Assistance) Regulations 2005.
Regulation  (EC) No 1107/2006  of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 5 July 2006 concerning the rights of disabled persons and persons with
reduced mobility when travelling by air.           Regulation  (EC) No
1371/2007  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on
rail passengers’ rights and obligations.           Regulations 2, 4, 13, 15
and 18 of the Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008.
The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008.           The
Cancellation of Contracts made in a Consumer’s Home or Place of Work etc.
Regulations 2008, to the extent that those Regulations remain in force for
contracts entered into prior to their disapplication by regulation 2(b) of the
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges)
Regulations 2013.           Article 23 of Regulation  (EC) No 1008/2008  of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common
rules for the operation of air services in the Community.           The
Provision of Services Regulations 2009.           The Rail Passengers’ Rights
and Obligations Regulations 2010.           Regulation (EU) No  1177/2010  of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 concerning the
rights of passengers when travelling by sea and inland waterway.           The
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010.
Regulation (EU) No  181/2011  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 February 2011 concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach
transport and amending Regulation  (EC) No 2006/2004 .           Chapters 1
and 2 of Part 14 of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012.
Regulations 4 and 6A to 10 of the Consumer Rights (Payment Surcharges)
Regulations 2012.           The Merchant Shipping (Passengers’ Rights)
Regulations 2013.           The Operation of Air Services in the Community
(Pricing etc.) Regulations 2013.           The Rights of Passengers in Bus and
Coach Transport (Exemptions and Enforcement) Regulations 2013.           The
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges)
Regulations 2013.           The Bus and Coach Passengers Rights and
Obligations (Designation and Enforcement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014.
The Bus and Coach Passengers Rights and Obligations (Designation of Terminals,
Tour Operators and Enforcement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014.
The Civil Aviation (Access to Air Travel for Disabled Persons and Persons with
Reduced Mobility) Regulations 2014.           Regulation 19(1) and (2) of the
Alternative Dispute Resolution for Consumer Disputes (Competent Authorities
and Information) Regulations 2015.           Sections 2, 3, 5, 9 to 15, 19,
23, 24, 28 to 32, 36(3) and (4), 37, 38, 42, 50, 54, 58, 59, 61 to 64, 67 to
70, 72 to 74 of, and Schedules 2 and 3 and Part 3 of Schedule 5 to, this Act.
Article 10(4) of  Regulation (EU) 2015/751  of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment
transactions.           Parts 2 and 3 and regulations 18, 19, 20(1), 20(3) to
20(5), 21 to 25, 27(2) and 27(3) of, and Schedules 1 to 6 to, the Payment
Accounts Regulations 2015.           The Rail Passengers Rights and
Obligations (Designation and Enforcement) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2017.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018.
Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024.

11.11

In paragraph 32, in sub-paragraph (3)—

11.11.a

in paragraph (b)—

11.11.a.i

for “a Schedule 13 enforcer” substitute  “an authorised enforcer” ;

11.11.a.ii

for “Schedule 13 infringement” substitute  “relevant infringement (as defined
by paragraph 20(8))” ;

11.11.b

in paragraph (c) for “a Schedule 13 enforcer” substitute  “an authorised
enforcer” .

11.12

In paragraph 41, in sub-paragraph (4)—

11.12.a

in the opening words, for “a Schedule 13 enforcer” substitute  “an authorised
enforcer for the purposes of Part 4 of this Schedule (see paragraph 20(7))” ;

11.12.b

in paragraph (a) for “Schedule 13 infringement” substitute  “relevant
infringement (as defined by paragraph 20(8))” .

11.13

In paragraph 45, in sub-paragraph (1), for paragraph (a) substitute—

11.13.a

Chapter  3  of  Part 3  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024,

.

  Part 3 : transitional and saving provisions

Section 215

##### Interpretation

1

In  this Schedule —

      “ commencement date ” means the date on which  section 153  comes into
force;           “ continuing conduct ” means an act or omission of a person
that—         takes place before the commencement date, and           is
repeated, or continues to take place, on or after that date;                 “
enforcement action ”—         in relation to the new law, means proceedings or
other steps taken by virtue of a power conferred under the new law, and
in relation to the old law, means proceedings or other steps taken by virtue
of a power conferred under the old law;                 “ the new law ” means
Chapters 3  and  4  of  Part 3  (and any provisions of law relating to those
Chapters, including Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 as amended by this Act);
“ the old law ” means—         Part 8 of EA 2002, as that Part had effect
immediately before the commencement date, and           any provisions of law
(including in particular Schedule 5 to CRA 2015) relating to Part 8 of EA
2002, as those provisions had effect immediately before the commencement date.

##### General rules

2

2.1

The old law continues to apply—

2.1.a

in respect of conduct of a person that takes place before the commencement
date;

2.1.b

for the purposes of the taking of enforcement action relating to a breach of
an order made by, or undertaking given to, the court under the old law;

2.1.c

in a case where proceedings before a court under the old law have been started
against a person before the commencement date, for the purposes of the
continuation and completion of those proceedings (including any appeals
relating to the proceedings).

2.2

In  sub-paragraph (1) (c)  the reference to proceedings being started against
a person is a reference to an application being made against the person under
section 215 or 218ZA of EA 2002.

2.3

This paragraph is subject to—

2.3.a

paragraph 3 , which makes rules for cases involving continuing conduct, and

2.3.b

paragraph 4 , which makes rules for cases involving breach of undertakings
given to enforcers.

##### Rules applicable to continuing conduct

3

3.1

This paragraph  applies where conduct of a person is continuing conduct.

3.2

The new law applies in respect of the person’s post-commencement conduct.

3.3

The new law also applies in respect of the person’s pre-commencement conduct
for the purposes of enabling the taking of enforcement action under Chapter 3
or 4 of  Part 3  in relation to that conduct.

3.4

Where the new law applies by virtue of  sub-paragraph (3) , a requirement
under Chapter 3 or (as the case may be) Chapter 4 may be imposed on a person
in respect of the relevant infringement in relation to which the enforcement
action is taken only if a requirement of a corresponding kind could have been
imposed on the person under the old law (and accordingly a monetary penalty,
in particular, may not be imposed on the person).

3.5

In applying the new law in accordance with  this paragraph  in respect of a
person’s post-commencement conduct, regard may be had to, and findings of fact
or law may be made in respect of, the person’s pre-commencement conduct so far
as necessary or appropriate for the purposes of determining any matter that
falls to be determined in the application of the new law.

3.6

In  this paragraph —

      “ post commencement conduct ” means so much of a person’s continuing
conduct as takes place on or after the commencement date;           “ pre-
commencement conduct ” means so much of a person’s continuing conduct as takes
place before the commencement date.

##### Rules applicable to undertakings given to enforcers under the old law

4

4.1

This paragraph  applies where an enforcer has accepted an undertaking from a
person under the old law.

4.2

Enforcement action in respect of a person’s breach of the undertaking, whether
the breach takes place before, on or after the commencement date, may be taken
only under the old law.

4.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies where a breach of the undertaking—

4.3.a

takes place (to any extent) on or after the commencement date, and

4.3.b

it appears to an enforcer that the act or omission comprising the breach, so
far as taking place on or after that date—

4.3.b.i

is also a commercial practice which constitutes a relevant infringement under
the new law, or

4.3.b.ii

is carried out by a person who is an accessory under the new law to such a
commercial practice.

4.4

Enforcement action in respect of the act or omission may be taken—

4.4.a

under the new law, or

4.4.b

if the act or omission would also be a domestic or Schedule 13 infringement
for the purposes of the old law, under the old law.

4.5

It is for the enforcer concerned to determine whether to take enforcement
action under the new law or the old law in accordance with sub-paragraph  (4)
.

4.6

A breach of an undertaking that first takes place before the commencement date
is to be treated for the purposes of this paragraph as also taking place on or
after that date if the act or omission comprising the breach is repeated or
continued on or after that date.

##### Information notices under Schedule 5 to CRA 2015

5

5.1

The amendments made by  paragraph 2 (3)  of  Schedule 17  (which insert new
paragraphs  16A  to  16J  into Schedule 5 to CRA 2015) have effect only in
relation to an information notice given on or after the commencement date.

5.2

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ information notice ” means a notice given under
paragraph 14 of Schedule 5 to CRA 2015.

##### Further provision

6

Nothing in  this Schedule  limits the power under  section 339 (5)  to make
further transitional and saving provision in connection with the coming into
force of the new law.

  Commercial practices which are in all circumstances considered unfair

Section 225

1

Claiming to be a signatory to a code of conduct when the trader is not.

2

Claiming that a code of conduct has an endorsement from a public or private
body which it does not have.

3

Displaying a trust mark, quality mark or equivalent without having obtained
the necessary authorisation.

4

Claiming that a trader, a trader’s commercial practice, or a product has been
approved, endorsed or authorised by a public or private body when—

4.a

the claim is false, or

4.b

the terms of the approval, endorsement or authorisation have not been, or are
not being, complied with.

5

5.1

Making an invitation to purchase products at a specified price where—

5.1.a

the trader has reasonable grounds for believing that it will not be possible
for the trader to offer those products, or equivalent products, for supply at
that price, in reasonable quantities, for a reasonable period of time (or to
procure another trader to do so), and

5.1.b

the trader does not disclose that fact.

5.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , the references to reasonable quantities and a
reasonable period of time are references to what is reasonable having regard
to—

5.2.a

the nature of the product,

5.2.b

the extent of advertising for the product, and

5.2.c

the price offered for the product.

6

Making an invitation to purchase products at a specified price and then—

6.a

refusing to show the advertised item to consumers,

6.b

refusing to take orders for it or deliver it within a reasonable time, or

6.c

demonstrating a defective sample of it,

with the intention of promoting a different product.

7

Falsely stating that a product will only be available for a limited time, or
that it will only be available on particular terms for a limited time, in
order to elicit an immediate decision and deprive consumers of sufficient
opportunity or time to make an informed choice.

8

Undertaking to provide an after-sales service to consumers and then making
such service available only in a language which is different to the language
used in communication with the consumer for, or prior to, the transaction
without clearly disclosing this to the consumer before the consumer committed
to the transaction.

9

Falsely claiming or creating the false impression that an after-sales service
is available, including falsely claiming that it is available in, or
accessible from, any particular country or location.

10

Stating or otherwise creating the impression that a product can be legally
sold when it cannot.

11

Presenting rights given to consumers by law as a distinctive feature of the
trader’s offer.

12

Using editorial content in the media to promote a product where a trader has
paid for the promotion without making that clear in the content or by images
or sounds clearly identifiable by the consumer.

13

13.1

Submitting, or commissioning another person to submit or write—

13.1.a

a fake consumer review, or

13.1.b

a consumer review that conceals the fact it has been incentivised.

13.2

Publishing consumer reviews, or consumer review information, in a misleading
way.

13.3

Publishing consumer reviews, or consumer review information, without taking
such reasonable and proportionate steps as are necessary for the purposes of—

13.3.a

preventing the publication of—

13.3.a.i

fake consumer reviews,

13.3.a.ii

consumer reviews that conceal the fact they have been incentivised, or

13.3.a.iii

consumer review information that is false or misleading, and

13.3.b

removing any such reviews or information from publication.

13.4

Offering services to traders—

13.4.a

for the doing of anything covered by sub-paragraph (1) or (2);

13.4.b

for the facilitating of anything covered by sub-paragraph (1) or (2) to be
done.

13.5

For the purposes of this paragraph—

13.5.a

“ consumer review ” means a review of a product, a trader or any other matter
relevant to a transactional decision;

13.5.b

“ fake consumer review ” means a consumer review that purports to be, but is
not, based on a person’s genuine experience;

13.5.c

a consumer review conceals the fact it has been incentivised if—

13.5.c.i

a person has been commissioned to submit or write the review, and

13.5.c.ii

that fact is not made apparent (whether through the contents of the review or
otherwise);

13.5.d

“ consumer review information ” means information that is derived from, or is
influenced by, consumer reviews;

13.5.e

a person “submits” a review or information if they supply it with a view to
publication;

13.5.f

“ writing ” includes creating by any means;

13.5.g

“ commissioning ” includes incentivising by any means (and “commissioned” is
to be read accordingly);

13.5.h

“ publishing ” includes disseminating, or otherwise making available, by any
means;

13.5.i

publishing in a “ misleading way ” includes (for example)—

13.5.i.i

failing to publish, or removing from publication, negative consumer reviews
whilst publishing positive ones (or vice versa);

13.5.i.ii

giving greater prominence to positive consumer reviews over negative ones (or
vice versa);

13.5.i.iii

omitting information that is relevant to the circumstances in which a consumer
review has been written (including that a person has been commissioned to
write the review).

14

Making a materially inaccurate claim concerning the nature and extent of the
risk to the personal security or safety of the consumer, a member of the
consumer’s family or anyone living in the consumer’s home, if the consumer
does not purchase the product.

15

Promoting a product similar to a product made by a particular manufacturer in
such a manner as deliberately to mislead the consumer into believing that the
product is made by that same manufacturer when it is not.

16

16.1

Establishing, operating or promoting a pyramid promotional scheme.

16.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , a pyramid promotional scheme means a scheme where a
consumer gives consideration for the opportunity to receive compensation that
is derived primarily from the introduction of other consumers into the scheme
rather than from the supply or consumption of products.

17

Claiming that the trader is about to cease trading or move premises when the
trader is not.

18

Claiming that products are able to facilitate winning in games of chance.

19

19.1

Falsely claiming that a product is able to—

19.1.a

prevent or treat disease or a malformation,

19.1.b

restore, correct or modify a physiological function, or

19.1.c

modify a person’s appearance.

19.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ disease ” includes any injury,
ailment or adverse condition, whether of body or mind.

20

Providing (including passing on) materially inaccurate information about
market conditions or about the availability of the product with the intention
of inducing the consumer to acquire the product under conditions that are less
favourable than normal market conditions.

21

Claiming to offer a competition or prize promotion without awarding the prizes
described or a reasonable equivalent.

22

Creating the false impression that the consumer has already won, will win, or
will on doing a particular act win, a prize or other equivalent benefit, when
in fact either—

22.a

there is no prize or other equivalent benefit, or

22.b

taking any action in relation to claiming the prize or other equivalent
benefit requires the consumer to pay money or incur a cost.

23

Describing a product as “gratis”, “free”, “without charge” or similar if the
consumer has to pay anything other than the unavoidable cost of responding to
the commercial practice and collecting or paying for delivery of the item.

24

Including in marketing material an invoice or similar document seeking payment
which gives the consumer the impression that the consumer has already ordered
the marketed product when the consumer has not.

25

Falsely claiming or creating the false impression that the trader is not
acting for purposes relating to the trader’s business or falsely representing
oneself as a consumer.

26

Creating the impression that the consumer cannot leave the premises until a
contract is formed.

27

Ignoring a request from a consumer to leave or not return to the consumer’s
home except in circumstances and to the extent justified to enforce a
contractual obligation.

28

Making persistent and unwanted solicitations by any means, other than by
attending at the consumer’s home, except in circumstances and to the extent
justified to enforce a contractual obligation.

29

Requiring a consumer who wishes to claim on an insurance policy to produce
documents which could not reasonably be considered relevant as to whether the
claim was valid, or failing systematically to respond to correspondence, in
order to dissuade a consumer from exercising the consumer’s contractual
rights.

30

Including in an advertisement a direct appeal to children to buy advertised
products or persuade their parents or other adults to buy advertised products
for them.

31

Supplying products to a consumer that have not been requested by the consumer
and demanding that the consumer—

31.a

pays for the products,

31.b

returns the products, or

31.c

safely stores the products.

32

Explicitly telling a consumer that if the consumer does not buy the product,
the trader’s job or livelihood will be at risk.

  Chapter 1  of  Part 4 : consequential amendments

Section 251

##### Administration of Justice Act 

1

In section 40(3A) of the Administration of Justice Act 1970 (punishment for
unlawful harassment of debtors), for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair
Trading Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

##### Trade Descriptions Act 

2

In section 12(3) of the Trade Descriptions Act 1968 (false representations as
to royal approval or award, etc.) for the words from “and” to “2008”
substitute  “has the same meaning as in  Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 and, for the purposes of this
section, a commercial practice is unfair if it would be unfair for the
purposes of that Chapter” .

##### Hallmarking Act 

3

In section 1 of the Hallmarking Act 1973 (prohibited descriptions of
unhallmarked articles)—

3.a

in subsection (4C) for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

3.b

in subsection (4D) for the words from “satisfying” to “action)” substitute
“an unfair commercial practice involving a misleading action for the purposes
of that Chapter” .

##### Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 

4

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act
1973 for paragraph (af) substitute—

4.af

to any obligation arising by virtue of rights of redress under  Chapter 1  of
Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024;

.

##### Companies Act 

5

In paragraph 17 of Schedule 15D to the Companies Act 1985 (disclosures), omit
sub-paragraph (k).

##### Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 

6

6.1

The Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 114A(2)(bb) (forfeiture of infringing copies, etc.: England and
Wales or Northern Ireland) for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

6.3

In section 114B(15) (forfeiture of infringing copies, etc.: Scotland), in
paragraph (d) in the definition of “relevant offence”, for “the Consumer
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of
Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

6.4

In section 204A(2)(bb) (forfeiture of illicit recordings: England and Wales or
Northern Ireland), for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

6.5

In section 204B(15) (forfeiture of illicit recordings: Scotland), in paragraph
(d) in the definition of “relevant offence” for “the Consumer Protection from
Unfair Trading Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

6.6

In section 297C(2)(bb) (forfeiture of unauthorised decoders: England and Wales
or Northern Ireland) for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

6.7

In section 297D(15) (forfeiture of unauthorised decoders: Scotland), in
paragraph (d) in the definition of “relevant offence” for “the Consumer
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of
Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

##### Trade Marks Act 

7

7.1

The Trade Marks Act 1994 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 91 (power of commissioners for revenue and customs to disclose
information), for paragraph (d) substitute—

7.2.d

Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024.

7.3

In section 97(8)(d) (forfeiture; England and Wales or Northern Ireland) for
“the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008” substitute  “
Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024” .

7.4

In section 98(14) (forfeiture; Scotland), in paragraph (d) in the definition
of “relevant offence” for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

##### Enterprise Act 

8

In EA 2002—

8.a

in Schedule 14 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the appropriate
place insert—

      Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

;

8.b

in Schedule 15 (enactments conferring functions) at the appropriate place
insert—

      Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

##### Licensing Act 

9

In paragraph 23 of Schedule 4 to the Licensing Act 2003 (personal licence:
relevant offences), for the words from “regulation” to “2008” substitute  “
Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024” .

##### Companies Act 

10

In paragraph 25 of Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Companies Act 2006 (specified
descriptions of disclosures), omit paragraph (j).

##### Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 

11

In Schedule 3 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (enactments
specified for the purposes of Part 1), at the appropriate place insert—

      Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024,  Chapter 1  of
Part 4 .

##### Consumer Rights Act 

12

12.1

Schedule 5 to the CRA 2015 (investigatory powers: enforcer’s legislation) is
amended as follows.

12.2

In paragraph 10—

12.2.a

omit “regulation 19(1) or (1A) of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008 ( SI 2008/1277 );”;

12.2.b

at the appropriate place insert—

      section  231 (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  of the Digital Markets, Competition
and Consumers Act 2024.

12.3

In paragraph 18(b) for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008 ( SI 2008/1277 )” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

##### Online Safety Act 

13

13.1

The Online Safety Act 2023 is amended as follows.

13.2

In section 59(6) (“illegal content” etc) for “the Consumer Protection from
Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( SI 2008/1277 )” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of
Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

13.3

In section 74(3) (interpretation of Chapter)—

13.3.a

in paragraph (b) for “the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 )” substitute  “ Chapter 1  of  Part 4  of the Digital
Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” ;

13.3.b

in paragraph (c) for “those Regulations (see regulation 19 of those
Regulations)” substitute  “that Chapter (see section  231  of that Act).

13.4

In section 218(3)(b) (power to amend section 40) for “the Consumer Protection
from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( SI 2008/1277 )” substitute  “ Chapter 1
of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

13.5

In section 222(6)(b) (power to amend Schedule 7) for “the Consumer Protection
from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( SI 2008/1277 )” substitute  “ Chapter 1
of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024” .

  Excluded contracts

Section 255

##### Utilities

1

1.1

A contract between an electricity supplier and a consumer for the supply of
electricity to any premises.

1.2

A contract between a gas supplier and a consumer for the supply of gas to any
premises.

1.3

A contract between a heat supplier and a consumer for the supply of heating,
cooling or hot water by means of a relevant heat network.

1.4

In England and Wales, a contract between a licensed water supplier, or
licensed sewerage supplier, and a consumer for the supply of water or sewerage
services.

1.5

In Scotland, a contract between a licensed water supplier, or licensed
sewerage supplier, and a consumer for the supply of water or sewerage
services.

1.6

In Northern Ireland—

1.6.a

a contract between a water undertaker and a consumer for the supply of water
pursuant to Article 94 of the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland)
Order 2006 ( S.I. 2006/3336 (N.I. 21) );

1.6.b

a contract between a sewerage undertaker and a consumer for the supply of
sewerage services pursuant to Chapter 3 of Part 6 of that Order.

1.7

In this paragraph—

      “ electricity supplier ” means a person who is authorised to supply
electricity—         by a licence under Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 or
Part 2 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I.
1)) ,           by virtue of an exemption granted under the Electricity (Class
Exemptions from the Requirement for a Licence) Order 2001 ( S.I. 2001/3270 ),
or           by virtue of an exemption granted under the Electricity (Class
Exemptions from the Requirement for a Licence) Order (Northern Ireland) 2013 (
S.I. 2013/93 (N.I. 1)) ;                 “ gas supplier ” means a person who
is authorised to supply gas—         by a licence under Part 1 of the Gas Act
1986 or Part 2 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I.
2)) , or           by virtue of the exemption in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2A to
the Gas Act 1986;                 “ heat supplier ” means a person who is
authorised to supply heating, cooling or hot water by an authorisation
conferred under regulations made under Chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Energy Act
2023;           “ licensed sewerage supplier ” means—         in relation to
England and Wales, a sewerage licensee within the meaning of the Water
Industry Act 1991;           in relation to Scotland, a person supplying
sewerage services under a sewerage services licence within the meaning of the
Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act  2005 (asp 3) ;                 “ licensed
water supplier ” means—         in relation to England and Wales, a water
supply licensee within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991;
in relation to Scotland, a person supplying water under a water services
licence within the meaning of the Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act 2005;
“ relevant heat network ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 8 of
the Energy Act 2023;           “ sewerage undertaker ” and “ water undertaker
” have the same meanings as in the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern
Ireland) Order 2006.

##### Insurance and financial services

2

A contract for services of a banking, credit, insurance, personal pension,
investment or payment nature.

##### Medical prescriptions etc.

3

3.1

A contract for the supply of goods, services or digital content where the
supply—

3.1.a

is made for purposes relating to the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of
illness, or otherwise relating to a person’s physical or mental health, and

3.1.b

is—

3.1.b.i

made under, or in connection with, a prescription or directions given by a
prescriber, or

3.1.b.ii

of a medicinal product which is administered by a prescriber.

3.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

      “ illness ” means physical or mental illness;           “ medicinal
product ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the Human Medicines
Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/ 1916 );           “ prescriber ”—         in
relation to a prescription or directions given, or a medicinal product
administered, in England, has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the
National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/349 );           in relation to a prescription or
directions given, or a medicinal product administered, in Wales, has the
meaning given by regulation 2 of the National Health Service (Pharmaceutical
Services) (Wales) Regulations 2020 ( S.I 2020/1073 (W. 241) ;           in
relation to a prescription or directions given, or a medicinal product
administered, in Scotland, has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the
National Health Service (Pharmaceutical Services) (Scotland) Regulations 2009
( S.S.I. 2009/183 ) but as if that definition included “a dentist”;
in relation to a prescription or directions given, or a medicinal product
administered in Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by the Pharmaceutical
Services Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997 ( S.R. (N.I.) 1997 No. 381 ).

4

4.1

A contract for the supply of goods, services or digital content by a health
care professional or a person included in a relevant list in circumstances
where—

4.1.a

the supply of goods, services or digital content is under arrangements for the
supply of services as part of the health service, and

4.1.b

the goods, services or digital content are, at least in some circumstances,
supplied under such arrangements free of charge or on prescription.

4.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

      “ health care professional ” means a member of a profession which is
regulated by—         a body mentioned in section 25(3) of the National Health
Service Reform and Health Care Professions Act 2002 but as if subsection (3A)
of that section were omitted;           Social Care Wales;           the
Scottish Social Services Council;           the Northern Ireland Social Care
Council;                 “ health service ” means the health service or system
of health care continued under—         section 1(1) of the National Health
Service Act 2006;           section 1(1) of the National Health Service
(Wales) Act 2006;           section 1(1) of the National Health Service
(Scotland) Act 1978;           section 2(1) of the Health and Social Care
(Reform) Act (Northern Ireland) 2009;                 “ relevant list ” means—
in relation to arrangements which are part of the health service in England—
a relevant list for the purposes of the National Health Service
(Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/349 ) (see regulation 2(1));           a list maintained under those
Regulations;                 in relation to arrangements which are part of the
health service in Wales—         a relevant list for the purposes of the
National Health Service (Pharmaceutical Services) (Wales) Regulations 2020 (
S.I 2020/1073 (W. 241) ;           a list maintained under those Regulations;
in relation to arrangements which are part of the health service in Scotland—
the pharmaceutical list prepared under regulation 5 of the National Health
Service (Pharmaceutical Services) (Scotland) Regulations 2009 ( S.S.I.
2009/183 );           the provisional pharmaceutical list prepared under
regulation 8 of those Regulations;           the primary medical services
performers list prepared under regulation 4 of the National Health Service
(Primary Medical Services Performers List) (Scotland) Regulations 2004 (
S.S.I. 2004/114 );           the dental list prepared under regulation 4 of
the National Health Service (General Dental Services) (Scotland) Regulations (
S.S.I 2010/208 );                 in relation to arrangements which are part
of the health service in Northern Ireland, the pharmaceutical list prepared
under regulation 6 of the Pharmaceutical Services Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997 ( S.R. (N.I.) 1997 No. 381 ).

##### Contracts regulated by OFCOM

5

A contract for the supply of goods, services or digital content by a person
who is bound, in relation to that supply, by a general condition set by OFCOM
under section 45 of the Communications Act 2003.

6

6.1

A contract for the supply of a premium rate service by a person who is bound,
in relation to the supply of that service, by conditions set by OFCOM under
section 120 of the Communications Act 2003.

6.2

In sub-paragraph (1), “ premium rate service ” has the meaning given by
section 120(7) of the Communications Act 2003.

7

In paragraphs  5  and  6 , “ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications.

##### Rent of residential accommodation

8

A contract under which accommodation is rented for residential purposes.

##### Delivery of foodstuffs etc. by micro-entity

9

9.1

A contract between a trader whose business is a micro-entity and a consumer
for the supply of foodstuffs, beverages or other goods intended for current
consumption in the household where the condition in sub-paragraph  (2)  or
(3)  is met.

9.2

The condition is that the foodstuffs, beverages or other goods—

9.2.a

are to be supplied by way of a frequent or regular delivery to the consumer’s
home, residence or workplace, and

9.2.b

are not to be delivered wholly or mainly by a third party.

9.3

The condition is that the foodstuffs, beverages or other goods are to be
supplied by way of the consumer collecting the goods from the trader’s
business premises.

9.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , a business is a micro-entity in each
financial year, other than its first financial year, that the condition in
sub-paragraph  (5)  or  (6)  is met in relation to the business.

9.5

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met if—

9.5.a

the business is carried on by a company, and

9.5.b

the company qualified as a micro-entity in accordance with section 384A of the
Companies Act 2006 in relation to the preceding financial year.

9.6

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met if—

9.6.a

the business is not carried on by a company, but

9.6.b

if the business had been carried on by a company, the company would have
qualified as a micro-entity in accordance with that section in relation to the
preceding financial year.

9.7

In the first financial year of a business, the business is a micro-entity for
the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)  if (and for so long as) the person
carrying on the business believes on reasonable grounds that the person will
qualify as a micro-entity in accordance with section 384A of the Companies Act
2006 in relation to that financial year (or would do so if the person were a
company).

9.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) (b)  goods are delivered by a third
party if they are delivered by a person acting for purposes relating to a
business other than the trader’s business.

9.9

In this paragraph—

      “ company ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Act 2006 (see
section 1 of that Act);           “ financial year ”—         in relation to a
business which is carried on by a company, means the company’s financial year
in accordance with sections 390 to 392 of that Act;           in relation to a
business which is not carried on by a company, means a year, beginning on 6
April and ending on the following 5 April;                 “ first financial
year ”—         in relation to a business which is carried on by a company,
means the company’s first financial year in accordance with sections 390 to
392 of the Companies Act 2006;           in relation to a business which is
not carried on by a company, means the first financial year in which the
business begins trading.

##### Package holidays etc

10

A package travel contract within the meaning of the Package Travel and Linked
Travel Arrangements Regulation 2018 ( S.I. 2018/634 ).

##### Timeshares etc

11

A contract which is a regulated contract within the meaning of the Timeshare,
Holiday Products Resale and Exchange Contracts 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2960 ).

##### Childcare (including school age education)

12

12.1

A contract for the supply of goods, services or digital content for, or in
connection with, the provision of childcare by a relevant childcare provider.

12.2

In relation to the provision of childcare in England and Wales, a “ relevant
childcare provider ” means—

12.2.a

a person who—

12.2.a.i

in relation to England, is registered, or required to be registered, under
Part 3 of the Childcare Act 2006 in relation to the childcare provided;

12.2.a.ii

in relation to England, is not required to register under that Part in
relation to the childcare provided because the childcare is excepted from the
definition of “childcare” in section 18 of that Act;

12.2.a.iii

in relation to England, is not required to register under that Part in
relation to the childcare provided as a result of Article 2 of the Childcare
(Exemptions from Registration) Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/979 ) by reference to
the circumstances specified in Article 3, 5 or 8 of that Order;

12.2.a.iv

in relation to Wales, is registered, or required to be registered, under Part
2 of the  Children and Family (Wales) Measure 2010 (nawm 1) ;

12.2.a.v

in relation to Wales, is not required to register under that Part because the
person is not acting as a child minder, or is not providing day care, for the
purposes of that Part by virtue of an Order made under section 19 of that
Measure;

12.2.b

the governing body of a maintained school;

12.2.c

the proprietor of an Academy school or an Alternative provision Academy;

12.2.d

the proprietor of a school that is approved under section 342 of the Education
Act 1996 (non-maintained special schools);

12.2.e

the proprietor of any educational institution not falling within paragraph
(c)  that is registered under section 95 of the Education and Skills Act 2008
(register of independent educational institutions).

12.3

In relation to the provision of childcare in Scotland, a “ relevant childcare
provider ” means—

12.3.a

a person who—

12.3.a.i

is registered, or required to be registered, under Part 5 of the Public
Services Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 8)  in relation to the childcare
provided;

12.3.a.ii

is not required to register under that Part in relation to the childcare
provided because that childcare is excepted from the definition of a care
service by Schedule 12 to that Act or by regulations made under that Schedule;

12.3.b

an education authority acting in its role as manager of a public school;

12.3.c

the proprietor of an independent school;

12.3.d

the managers of a grant-aided school.

12.4

In relation to the provision of childcare in Northern Ireland, a “ relevant
childcare provider ” means—

12.4.a

a person who—

12.4.a.i

is registered, or required to be registered, under Part 11 of the Children
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I. 1995/755 (N.I. 2)) ;

12.4.a.ii

is not required to register under that Part in relation to the childcare
provided because the person is not acting as a childminder when carrying out
that childcare by virtue of Article 119 of that Order, or is not providing day
care for children when carrying out that childcare by virtue of Article 120 of
that Order;

12.4.a.iii

is not required to register under that Part in relation to the childcare
provided because of an exemption under Article 121 of that Order;

12.4.b

the Board of Governors of a grant-aided school;

12.4.c

the proprietor of an independent school.

12.5

In this paragraph—

      “ Academy school ” has the meaning given by section 1A of the Academies
Act 2010;           “ Alternative provision Academy ” has the meaning given by
section 1C of the Academies Act 2010;           “ Board of Governors ” has the
same meaning as in the Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 (
S.I. 1986/594 (N.I. 3)) ;           “ child ” means a person under the age of
18;           “ childcare ” means any form of care for a child, including—
education for a child, and           any other supervised activity for a
child;                 “ education authority ” has the meaning given by
section 135(1) of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980;           “ governing
body ”, in relation to a maintained school, means the governing body referred
to in relation to the school in section 19 of the Education Act 2002;
“ grant-aided school ”—         in relation to Scotland, has the meaning given
by section 135(1) of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980;           in relation
to Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 2(2) of the of the
Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986;                 “
independent school ”—         in relation to Scotland, has the meaning given
by section 135(1) of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980;           in relation
to Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 2(2) of the of the
Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986;                 “
maintained school ” means—         a community, foundation or voluntary school
(within the meaning of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998);
a community or foundation special school (within the meaning of that Act);
a maintained nursery school (as defined by section 22(9) of that Act);
“ proprietor ”—         in relation to a maintained school, has the meaning
given by section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996;           in relation to an
educational institution registered under section 95 of the Education and
Skills Act 2008, has the meaning given by section 138(1) of that Act;
in relation to an independent school in Scotland, has the meaning given by
section 135(1) of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980;           in relation to
an independent school in Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article
2(2) of the of the Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986;
“ public school ” has the meaning given by section 135(1) of the Education
(Scotland) Act 1980.

##### Gambling contracts

13

13.1

In England and Wales and Scotland, a contract for—

13.1.a

gambling, within the meaning of the Gambling Act 2005;

13.1.b

participating in the National Lottery, within the meaning of the National
Lottery etc. Act 1993.

13.2

In Northern Ireland, a contract for betting, gaming or participating in a
lawful lottery within the meaning of the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and
Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order 1985 ( S.I. 1985/1204 (N.I. 11)) .

  Pre-contract information and reminder notices

Section 256

##### Key pre-contract information

1

The information referred to in section  256 (1) (a)  is as follows.

2

If section  254 (2)  applies to the contract—

2.a

that the contract will continue, or continue for a fixed term, unless the
consumer takes steps to bring the contract to an end, or to an earlier end,

2.b

that until the contract comes to an end the consumer will continue to incur
liabilities under the contract, and

2.c

any minimum period that must elapse before the consumer can bring the contract
to an end.

3

If section  254 (3)  applies to the contract—

3.a

that the consumer will be charged, or charged at a higher rate, for the supply
of goods, services or digital content unless the consumer takes steps to bring
the contract to an end before liability for any charge, or higher charge, is
incurred by the consumer, and

3.b

the date on which the consumer will become liable for the first charge, or
first higher charge.

4

The frequency with which the consumer will become liable for payments under
the contract and the minimum amount that the consumer will become liable for
on each occasion, or how that amount is to be calculated if the amount cannot
reasonably be calculated in advance.

5

If different to the information referred to in paragraph  4 , the amount that
the consumer would become liable for each month if payments under the contract
fell due monthly.

6

The minimum total amount for which the consumer will become liable under the
contract.

7

Whether the contract provides for—

7.a

any changes to the frequency or the amount of payments that the consumer will
become liable for under the contract, or

7.b

any option under the contract for the trader to change the frequency or amount
of those payments,

and if it does, the detail of those changes or that option.

8

The steps that the consumer must take to bring the contract to an end
including any address (including a website or email address) or other contact
details the consumer may need in order to take those steps.

9

The amount of notice that the consumer must give to bring the contract to an
end.

10

The period within which reminder notices in relation to the contract will be
given in accordance with section  259 (3) .

11

A summary of—

11.a

the consumer’s right to cancel the contract during the initial cooling-off
period (or if the consumer may lose that right, that information), and

11.b

any right the consumer has to cancel during a renewal cooling-off period,

and the fact that further details about the rights are set out in the full
pre-contract information.

##### Full pre-contract information

12

The information referred to in section  256 (1) (b)  is as follows.

13

The information set out in Part 1 of this Schedule.

14

The main characteristics of the goods, services or digital content, to the
extent appropriate to the medium of communication and to the nature of the
goods, services or digital content.

15

15.1

The identity of the trader and the identity of any other person on whose
behalf the trader is acting.

15.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , “ identity ” in relation to a trader,
means—

15.2.a

the name of the trader, and

15.2.b

if different, the name under which the trader trades.

16

16.1

The business address and, if different, the service address of the trader, and
any business email address and business telephone number of the trader.

16.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)  and paragraph  17 —

      “ business address ”, in relation to a person, means—         where the
person is a body corporate, the address of its registered or principal office,
where the person is a firm that is not a body corporate, the address of the
principal office of the firm,           in a case where neither paragraphs (a)
or (b) apply, the address of the person’s principal place of business;
“ business email address ”, in relation to a person, means any email address
used by the trader for conducting business;           “ business telephone
number ”, in relation to a person, means any telephone number used by the
trader for conducting business;           “ service address ”, in relation to
a person, means the address at which the person will accept service of
documents.

17

In relation to any other person on whose behalf the trader is acting—

17.a

the person’s business address, business email address and business telephone
number (if the person has such addresses or such a number), and

17.b

if different to the person’s business address, the person’s service address.

18

All additional delivery charges and any other costs or, where those charges
cannot reasonably be calculated in advance, the fact that such additional
charges may be payable.

19

The arrangements for payment, delivery, performance, and the time by which the
trader undertakes to deliver the goods, to perform the services or to supply
the digital content.

20

The trader’s complaint handling policy.

21

The following information about the consumer’s right to cancel the
subscription contract during the initial cooling-off period—

21.a

when that period begins and ends;

21.b

how the consumer may exercise the right;

21.c

if the consumer may lose the right, the circumstances under which that will
happen;

21.d

the consequences of the consumer exercising the right, including—

21.d.i

any refund the consumer may be entitled to,

21.d.ii

any reason that refund might be diminished, and

21.d.iii

in respect of a contract for the supply of goods, whether the consumer will be
responsible for returning those goods to the trader, including the likely cost
of returning the goods if they cannot normally be returned by post.

22

The following information about any right the consumer has to cancel the
subscription contract during a renewal cooling-off period—

22.a

when the first renewal cooling-off period will begin and end;

22.b

whether there will be further renewal cooling-off periods and, if so, when
each will begin and end;

22.c

how the consumer may exercise the right;

22.d

if the consumer may lose that right, the circumstances under which that will
happen;

22.e

the consequences of the consumer exercising the right, including—

22.e.i

any refund the consumer may be entitled to,

22.e.ii

any reason that refund might be diminished,

22.e.iii

in respect of a contract for the supply of goods, whether the consumer will be
responsible for returning those goods to the trader.

23

A reminder of the statutory rights of the consumer under Part 1 of the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.

24

24.1

The existence and conditions of after-sale customer assistance, after-sales
services and commercial guarantees.

24.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , “ commercial guarantee ”, in relation to a contract,
means any undertaking by the trader or producer to the consumer (in addition
to the trader’s duty to supply goods that are in conformity with the contract)
to reimburse the price paid or to replace, repair or service goods in any way
if they do not meet the specifications or any other requirements not related
to conformity set out in the guarantee statement or in the relevant
advertising available at the time of the contract or before it is entered
into.

25

25.1

The existence of relevant codes of conduct and how copies of them can be
obtained.

25.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , “ code of conduct ” has the meaning it has in  section
249 .

26

The existence and the conditions of deposits or other financial guarantees to
be paid or provided by the consumer at the request of the trader.

27

27.1

The functionality, including applicable technical protection measures, of
digital content and any relevant compatibility of digital content with
hardware and software that the trader is aware of or can reasonably be
expected to have been aware of.

27.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , “ functionality ”, in relation to digital content,
includes region coding, restrictions incorporated for the purposes of digital
rights management, and other technical restrictions.

28

The possibility of having recourse to an out-of-court complaint and redress
mechanism, to which the trader is subject, and the methods for having access
to it.

##### Reminder notices

29

The information referred to in section  259 (1) (a)  (information that must be
contained in a reminder notice) is as follows.

30

That the consumer will become liable for the renewal payment to which the
notice relates unless the consumer takes steps to bring the contract to an
end.

31

The date (“the renewal date”) on which the consumer will become liable for the
renewal payment and its amount.

32

The amount of the previous renewal payment for which the consumer became
liable under the contract (if any).

33

If the renewal payment to which the notice relates is a higher amount than
that previous renewal payment, that information and the difference in the
amount.

34

If, having not brought the contract to an end before the renewal date, the
consumer will become automatically liable for one or more further payments
under the contract (ignoring any subsequent renewal payment)—

34.a

the frequency with which the consumer will become liable for those payments,
and

34.b

the minimum amount that the consumer will become liable for on each occasion
(or how that amount is to be calculated if it cannot reasonably be calculated
in advance).

35

The amount of any payments equivalent to those mentioned in paragraph  34  for
which the consumer became liable after the previous renewal payment.

36

If the payments mentioned in paragraph  34  are (or may be) of a higher amount
than any equivalent payments for which the consumer became liable after the
previous renewal payment, that information and the difference in the amount
(or the difference in how the amount will be calculated).

37

The minimum total amount for which the consumer will become liable under the
contract if the consumer does not bring the contract to an end before the
renewal date (ignoring any liability that has arisen, or will arise, before
that date), or how that amount is to be calculated if the amount cannot
reasonably be calculated in advance.

38

The date on which the consumer will become liable for the next renewal
payment, or if the consumer will not become liable for any further renewal
payment, the date on which the contract will come to an end.

39

The steps that the consumer may take to bring the subscription contract to an
end so as to avoid becoming liable for any further payment under the contract,
including—

39.a

any address (including a website or email address) or other contact details
the consumer may need in order to take those steps, and

39.b

the date by which any steps must be taken so as to avoid that liability.

  Excluded arrangements

Section 284

##### Regulated financial services activity

1

1.1

A contract between a consumer and a trader where—

1.1.a

the contract is entered into by the trader in the course of carrying on a
regulated financial services activity, and

1.1.b

the trader is authorised to carry on that activity.

1.2

In  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , a regulated financial services activity means—

1.2.a

a regulated activity for the purposes of section 19 of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000;

1.2.b

a payment service within the meaning of regulation 2(1) of the Payment
Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 );

1.2.c

the issue of electronic money.

1.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (b) , a person is authorised to carry
on a regulated financial services activity if—

1.3.a

the person is an authorised person in relation to the activity for the
purposes of section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000;

1.3.b

the person is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to the activity
under section 39(1) of that Act;

1.3.c

the person is a payment service provider and the activity is a payment service
for which the person is authorised or registered under Part 2 of the Payment
Services Regulations 2017;

1.3.d

the person is an electronic money issuer and the activity is the issue of
electronic money for which the person is authorised or registered under Part 2
of the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ).

1.4

In this paragraph—

      “ electronic money ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the
Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (and references to the issue of electronic
money are to be construed in accordance with those regulations);           “
electronic money issuer ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(1) of those
Regulations;           “ the general prohibition ” has the same meaning as in
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (see section 19(2) of that Act);
“ payment service provider ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(1) of the
Payment Services Regulations 2017.

##### Arrangements for the supply of utilities

2

2.1

Arrangements for—

2.1.a

the supply of water under a relevant duty to supply water;

2.1.b

the supply of electricity under an electricity supply licence;

2.1.c

the supply of gas under a gas supply licence;

2.1.d

the supply of heating, cooling or hot water by means of a relevant heat
network under a heat network authorisation.

2.2

In this paragraph—

      “ electricity supply licence ” means a licence granted under section 6
of the Electricity Act 1989 or Article 10 of the Electricity (Northern
Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I.1)) ;           “ gas supply licence
” means a licence granted under section 7A(1) of the Gas Act 1986 or Article
8(1)(c) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I.2)) ;
“ heat network authorisation ” means an authorisation conferred under
regulations made under section 219 of the Energy Act 2023;           “
relevant duty to supply water ” means the duty imposed by—         section 52
of the Water Industry Act 1991;           Article 91 of the Water and Sewerage
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 ( S.I. 2006/3336 (N.I. 21)) ;
section 6 of the Water (Scotland) Act 1980;                 “ relevant heat
network ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Energy Act
2023 (see section 216 of that Act).

##### Contracts regulated by OFCOM

3

3.1

A contract for the supply of goods, services or digital content by a person
who is bound, in relation to that supply, by a general condition set by OFCOM
under section 45 of the Communications Act 2003.

3.2

In sub-paragraph (1), “ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications.

##### Contracts for prepaid passenger transport services

4

A contract for prepaid passenger transport services.

##### Small businesses

5

5.1

A contract between a consumer and a trader where—

5.1.a

the trader’s turnover in the trader’s last financial year was less than
£1,000,000, and

5.1.b

the trader does not enter into consumer savings scheme contracts which result
in an account held by a trader for a consumer being credited with funds of
more than £120 at any given time.

5.2

Where a trader is in their first year of trading, the exclusion in this
paragraph applies if the test in sub-paragraph (1)(b) alone is satisfied.

##### Childcare voucher schemes

6

A contract between a consumer and a trader where the contract is entered into
by a trader in the course of providing childcare vouchers within the meaning
given in section 84 of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 for the
purposes of a scheme to which section 270A of that Act applies.

##### Package holidays etc.

7

A package travel contract within the meaning of the Package Travel and Linked
Travel Arrangements Regulation 2018 ( S.I. 2018/634 ).

  Exempt ADR providers

Section 295

##### List of exempt persons

        The Commission for Local Administration in England (also known as the
Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman) and each Local Commissioner within
the meaning of section 23(3) of the Local Government Act 1974           The
Consumer Council for Water           The Health Service Commissioner for
England           The Legal Ombudsman           The Northern Ireland Public
Services Ombudsman           The Office of the Independent Adjudicator for
Higher Education (registered company number 04823842) in relation to its
functions as the designated operator under section 13 of the Higher Education
Act 2004           The Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration
The Pensions Ombudsman           The Public Services Ombudsman for Wales or
Ombwdsmon Gwasanaethau Cyhoeddus Cymru           The Scottish Legal Complaints
Commission           The Scottish Public Services Ombudsman

##### Exempt redress schemes

        An approved estate agents redress scheme           An approved postal
operators redress scheme           An approved social housing ombudsman scheme
Approved public communications provider dispute procedures           The
Financial Ombudsman Scheme           A qualifying lettings agency work redress
scheme           A qualifying property management work redress scheme
A qualifying redress scheme for the gas or electricity sector

##### Supplementary

1

In this Schedule—

      “ approved estate agents redress scheme ” means an approved redress
scheme within the meaning of section 23A of the Estate Agents Act 1979;
“ approved postal operators redress scheme ” means an approved redress scheme
for investigating and determining complaints about postal operators (see
section 52 of the Postal Services Act 2011);           “ approved public
communications provider dispute procedures ” means dispute procedures
maintained by public communications providers that are approved under section
54 of the Communications Act 2003 for the purposes of section 52(5) of that
Act;           “ approved social housing ombudsman scheme ” means a scheme
which is approved for the purposed of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996;
“ qualifying lettings agency work redress scheme ” means a redress scheme
which is approved as mentioned in section 83(1)(a), or is a government scheme
for the purposes of section 83(1)(b), of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform
Act 2013;           “ qualifying property management work redress scheme ”
means a redress scheme which is approved as mentioned in section 84(1)(a), or
is a government administered redress scheme for the purposes of section
84(1)(b), of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013;           “
qualifying redress scheme for the gas or electricity sector ” means a redress
scheme which is approved as mentioned in section 47(1)(a), or is administered
and designated as mentioned in section 47(1)(b), of the Consumers, Estate
Agents and Redress Act 2007.

  Accreditation criteria

Section 301

##### The criteria applicable to an accredited ADR provider

###### Criterion 1: information for consumers

1

1.1

The ADR provider provides consumers generally with accessible information
about the ADR that it carries out or for which it makes special ADR
arrangements.

1.2

The information provided should include (among other things) information
about—

1.2.a

the kinds of ADR it carries out or for which it makes special ADR arrangements
(including the possible outcomes of each kind);

1.2.b

the types of dispute it deals with (whether by carrying out ADR or making
special ADR arrangements);

1.2.c

the procedures adopted in relation to ADR carried out by it or for which it
makes special ADR arrangements;

1.2.d

any fees or costs payable by either party to a dispute that is referred for
ADR.

###### Criterion 2: readiness to carry out ADR

2

The ADR provider does not unreasonably refuse to carry out ADR or, as the case
may be, to make special ADR arrangements, in relation to disputes referred to
it.

###### Criterion 3: expertise

3

The ADR provider has appropriate knowledge and skills—

3.a

for carrying out the ADR that it carries out, in relation to the disputes it
deals with, or

3.b

for making the special ADR arrangements that it makes.

###### Criterion 4: facilities for consumers and traders to participate

4

4.1

The ADR provider provides accessible means for consumers to refer disputes to
it.

4.2

The ADR provider or, as the case may be, any other ADR provider with whom it
makes special ADR arrangements, ensures there are accessible means for the
parties to participate in the ADR carried out in relation to their dispute.

###### Criterion 5: fair ADR procedures

5

5.1

The ADR provider or, as the case may be, any other ADR provider with whom it
makes special ADR arrangements, adopts and follows fair procedures in carrying
out ADR.

5.2

The procedures adopted should, in particular, be easy to use, transparent,
non-discriminatory and effective.

5.3

They should include procedures for securing that each party to a dispute
referred for ADR—

5.3.a

has a reasonable opportunity—

5.3.a.i

to express its point of view in relation to the matters in dispute and the
outcome it seeks;

5.3.a.ii

to consider the views, arguments and evidence put forward by the other party;

5.3.b

is entitled to be represented or assisted by another person (and that it is
immaterial whether or not that person is legally qualified).

###### Criterion 6: independence and impartiality

6

6.1

The ADR provider or, as the case may be, any other ADR provider with whom it
makes special ADR arrangements, acts independently and impartially before, and
while, it carries out ADR.

6.2

The action to be taken should include—

6.2.a

following appropriate procedures for identifying, and avoiding, any conflict
of interest before carrying out ADR in relation to a dispute;

6.2.b

taking steps to avoid conflicts of interest that may arise before, or while,
it carries out ADR in relation to a dispute.

###### Criterion 7: information for parties

7

7.1

The ADR provider or, as the case may be, any other ADR provider with whom it
makes special ADR arrangements keeps the parties to a dispute informed about
the conduct and progress of any ADR being carried out.

7.2

The action to be taken includes notifying the parties promptly in writing of
the outcome of the ADR and, where applicable, of the grounds on which any
decision has been reached.

##### Supplementary

8

The following provisions have effect for the interpretation or application of
this Schedule .

9

The accreditation criteria only apply to the ADR provider so far as it is
reasonable to regard them as applicable—

9.a

in relation to ADR of a kind that is carried out by the ADR provider or, as
the case may be, by any other ADR provider with whom the ADR provider makes
special ADR arrangements, or

9.b

in relation to activities of the ADR provider in, or in connection with,
making special ADR arrangements.

10

“ Procedures ”, in relation to ADR, means any rules, requirements or practices
relating to the carrying out of ADR, including—

10.a

any time limits for referring disputes for ADR;

10.b

any conditions or other requirements to be met by either (or both) of the
parties before, or while, ADR is being carried out;

11

“ Dispute ” means a consumer contract dispute.

  Chapter 4  of  Part 4 : consequential amendments etc

Section 309

##### Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973

1

1.1

Section 14 of the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973 (computation
of prescriptive periods) is amended as follows.

1.2

In the following places, for “relevant consumer dispute” or “relevant dispute”
substitute  “consumer contract dispute” —

1.2.a

subsection (1D);

1.2.b

subsection (1F);

1.2.c

subsection (1G) (in each place where it occurs).

1.3

In subsection (1D)—

1.3.a

after “ this Act is ” (in the opening words) insert  “, in a case where ADR is
carried out in respect of the dispute,” ;

1.3.b

in paragraph (a)—

1.3.b.i

for “the non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “the ADR” , and

1.3.b.ii

for “such a procedure” substitute  “it” ;

1.3.c

in each of paragraphs (b) and (c), for “a non-binding ADR procedure”
substitute  “the ADR” .

1.4

In the following places, for “the non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “the
ADR” —

1.4.a

subsection (1E);

1.4.b

subsection (1G)(b) and (f);

1.4.c

subsection (2) (in the definition of “qualifying request”).

1.5

In subsections (1F) and (1G), for “a non-binding ADR procedure” substitute
“ADR” .

1.6

In subsection (2)—

1.6.a

omit the following definitions—

      “ADR entity”;           “ADR procedure”;           “consumer”;
“non-binding ADR procedure”;           “relevant consumer dispute”;
“sales contract”;           “service contract”;           “trader”;

1.6.b

before the definition of “holiday” insert the following definitions—

      “ ADR ” has the same meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024;           “ ADR entity ”
means a person who carries out ADR in compliance with section  293 (1) of that
Act (which prohibits persons from carrying out ADR unless exempt, accredited,
or acting under special ADR arrangements, in accordance with  Chapter 4  of
Part 4  of that Act);           “ consumer contract dispute ” has the same
meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of that Act.

##### Limitation Act 1980

2

2.1

Section 33B of the Limitation Act 1980 (extension of time limits because of
alternative dispute resolution) is amended as follows.

2.2

In the heading, for “cross border or domestic contractual” substitute
“consumer contract” .

2.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

2.3.1

In this section—

      “ ADR ” has the same meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024;           “ ADR entity ”
means a person who carries out ADR in compliance with section  293 (1) of that
Act (which prohibits persons from carrying out ADR unless exempt, accredited,
or acting under special ADR arrangements, in accordance with  Chapter 4  of
Part 4  of that Act);           “ consumer contract dispute ” has the same
meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of that Act.

2.4

In the following places, for “relevant dispute” substitute  “consumer contract
dispute” —

2.4.a

subsection (2)(a) and (b);

2.4.b

subsection (5);

2.4.c

subsection (6);

2.4.d

subsection (7) (in each place where it occurs);

2.4.e

subsection (9).

2.5

In the following places, for “a non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “ADR” —

2.5.a

subsection (2)(b);

2.5.b

subsection (6);

2.5.c

subsection (9).

2.6

In the following places, for “the non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “the
ADR” —

2.6.a

subsection (2)(c);

2.6.b

subsection (3);

2.6.c

subsection (7) (in each place where it occurs);

2.6.d

subsection (8);

2.6.e

subsection (9).

##### Foreign Limitation Periods Act 1984

3

3.1

Section 1B of the Foreign Limitation Periods Act 1984 (extension of limitation
periods because of alternative dispute resolution) is amended as follows.

3.2

In the heading, for “cross border or domestic contractual” substitute
“consumer contract” .

3.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

3.3.1

In this section—

      “ ADR ” has the same meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024;           “ ADR entity ”
means a person who carries out ADR in compliance with section  293 (1) of that
Act (which prohibits persons from carrying out ADR unless exempt, accredited,
or acting under special ADR arrangements, in accordance with  Chapter 4  of
Part 4  of that Act);           “ consumer contract dispute ” has the same
meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of that Act.

3.4

In the following places, for “relevant dispute” substitute  “consumer contract
dispute” —

3.4.a

subsection (2)(a) and (b);

3.4.b

subsection (5);

3.4.c

subsection (6) (in each place where it occurs);

3.4.d

subsection (8).

3.5

In the following places, for “a non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “ADR” —

3.5.a

subsection (2)(b);

3.5.b

subsection (5);

3.5.c

subsection (8).

3.6

In the following places, for “the non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “the
ADR” —

3.6.a

subsection (2)(c);

3.6.b

subsection (3);

3.6.c

subsection (6) (in each place where it occurs);

3.6.d

subsection (7);

3.6.e

subsection (8).

##### Limitation (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (

4

4.1

Article 51B of the Limitation (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (extension of time
limits: non-binding ADR procedure) is amended as follows.

4.2

In the heading, for “: Non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “because of
alternative dispute resolution in certain consumer contract disputes” .

4.3

In paragraphs (1)(a) and (3), for “a non-binding ADR procedure” substitute
“ADR” .

4.4

In the following places, for “the non-binding ADR procedure” substitute  “the
ADR” —

4.4.a

paragraph (1)(b) (in each place where it occurs);

4.4.b

paragraph (2);

4.4.c

paragraph (4) (in each place where it occurs).

4.5

In paragraph (1)(b)(i), for “that such a procedure” substitute  “on which it”
.

4.6

In the following places, for “relevant dispute” substitute  “consumer contract
dispute” —

4.6.a

paragraph (1)(a);

4.6.b

paragraph (3);

4.6.c

paragraph (4) (in each place where it occurs).

4.7

For paragraph (5) substitute—

4.7.5

In this Article—

      “ ADR ” has the same meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024;           “ ADR entity ”
means a person who carries out ADR in compliance with section  293 (1) of that
Act (which prohibits persons from carrying out ADR unless exempt, accredited,
or acting under special ADR arrangements, in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part
4 of that Act);           “ consumer contract dispute ” has the same meaning
as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of that Act;           “ qualifying request ” is
a request by a party that another (A) confirm to all parties that A is
continuing with the ADR.

##### Financial Services and Markets Act 2000

5

In Schedule 17 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (ombudsman
scheme), omit the following provisions—

5.a

in paragraph 1, the definition of “ADR entity”;

5.b

paragraph 2(2);

5.c

paragraph 14(3A).

##### Enterprise Act 2002

6

In EA 2002—

6.a

in Schedule 14 (provisions about disclosure of information) at the appropriate
place insert—

      Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

;

6.b

in Schedule 15 (enactments conferring functions) at the appropriate place
insert—

      Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

##### Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008

7

In Schedule 3 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (enactments
specified for the purposes of Part 1), at the appropriate place insert—

      Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024,  Chapter 4  of
Part 4

.

##### Equality Act 2010

8

8.1

Section 140AA of the Equality Act 2010 (extension of time limits because of
alternative dispute resolution) is amended as follows.

8.2

In the heading, for “cross border or domestic contractual” substitute
“consumer contract” .

8.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

8.3.1

In this section—

      “ ADR ” has the same meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024;           “ ADR entity ”
means a person who carries out ADR in compliance with section  293 (1) of that
Act (which prohibits persons from carrying out ADR unless exempt, accredited,
or acting under special ADR arrangements, in accordance with  Chapter 4  of
Part 4  of that Act);           “ consumer contract dispute ” has the same
meaning as in  Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of that Act.

8.4

In each of the following places, for “relevant dispute” substitute  “consumer
contract dispute” —

8.4.a

subsection (2)(a) and (b);

8.4.b

subsection (5);

8.4.c

subsection (6);

8.4.d

subsection (7) (in each place where it occurs);

8.4.e

subsection (9).

8.5

In each of the following places, for “a non-binding ADR procedure” substitute
“ADR” —

8.5.a

subsection (2)(b);

8.5.b

subsection (6);

8.5.c

subsection (9).

8.6

In each of the following places, for “the non-binding ADR procedure”
substitute  “the ADR” —

8.6.a

subsection (2)(c);

8.6.b

subsection (3);

8.6.c

subsection (7) (in each place where it occurs);

8.6.d

subsection (8);

8.6.e

subsection (9).

8.7

In subsection (8), for “(6)” substitute  “(7)” .

##### Consumer Rights Act 2015

9

9.1

Schedule 5 to CRA 2015 (investigatory powers etc) is amended as follows.

9.2

In the table in paragraph 11 (enforcer’s legislation: legislation mentioned in
paragraph 9(1)(b)), at the appropriate place insert—

    The Secretary of State Chapter 4  of  Part 4  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024

##### Alternative Dispute Resolution for Consumer Disputes (Competent Authorities and Information) Regulations 2015 (

10

The Alternative Dispute Resolution for Consumer Disputes (Competent
Authorities and Information) Regulations 2015 ( SI 2015/542 ) are revoked.

  Provision of investigative assistance to overseas regulators

Section 325

##### Amendments to Part 3 of EA 2002

1

Chapter 5 of Part 3 of EA 2002 (mergers: supplementary) is amended as follows.

2

In section 110A (restriction on powers to impose penalties under section 110),
after subsection (9) insert—

2.10

Where the section 109 power is exercised for the purposes of providing
assistance to an overseas regulator (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024), the relevant day is the
earlier of—

2.10.a

in the case of a penalty imposed by virtue of section 110(1)(a), the day on
which the CMA gives notice to the relevant person that—

2.10.a.i

the information or documents specified or described in the notice under
section 109 have been produced or supplied to the satisfaction of the CMA, or

2.10.a.ii

the relevant person has appeared as a witness in accordance with the
requirements of the CMA;

2.10.b

in the case of a penalty imposed by virtue of section 110(1)(b), the day on
which the CMA gives notice to the relevant person that the CMA considers the
obstruction or delay to have ceased; and

2.10.c

in either case, the day one year on from the day specified in the notice under
section 109 for the relevant person to comply with it.

2.11

In  subsection (10) , “ the relevant person ” means the person given the
notice under section 109.

3

In section 111 (penalties: amount) (as amended by  paragraph 17  of  Schedule
10 ), in subsection (5), in paragraph (b)—

3.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “at the beginning of” insert
“the earliest of the following days” ;

3.b

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (i);

3.c

in sub-paragraph (ii) omit “if earlier”;

3.d

after that sub-paragraph insert—

3.d.iii

in a case where the penalty is imposed in connection with the provision by the
CMA of assistance to an overseas regulator (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024), the day on which the
overseas regulator no longer requires that assistance.

4

4.1

Section 120 (reviews of decisions under Part 3) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (1A), after paragraph (b) insert—

4.2.c

a decision of the CMA or the Secretary of State for the purposes of  Chapter 2
of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 in
connection with a request from an overseas regulator (within the meaning of
that Chapter) for the CMA to assist the regulator in carrying out functions of
the regulator which correspond or are similar to the functions of the CMA
under this Part.

4.3

In subsection (2), in paragraph (b)—

4.3.a

the words after “permitted or required by” become sub-paragraph (i);

4.3.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

4.3.b.ii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 in connection with a request from an overseas regulator (within the
meaning of that Chapter) for the CMA to assist the regulator in carrying out
functions of the regulator which correspond or are similar to the functions of
the CMA under this Part.

##### Amendment to Part 9 of EA 2002

5

In Part 9 of EA 2002 (information), in  section 243E  (directions by the
Secretary of State relating to overseas disclosures) (inserted by  section 326
(2) ), after subsection (2) insert—

5.2A

The Secretary of State may not make a direction under this section in relation
to a disclosure permitted under section  243A  or  243B  that relates to
assistance provided by a relevant regulator to an overseas regulator by virtue
of  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

6

In Schedule 14 to EA 2002 (specified functions), at the appropriate place
insert—

      Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

7

In Schedule 15 to EA 2002 (enactments conferring functions), at the
appropriate place insert—

      Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers
Act 2024.

##### Amendments to CA 1998

8

CA 1998 is amended as follows.

9

9.1

Section 25A (power of CMA to publish notice of investigation) is amended as
follows.

9.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “etc” .

9.3

After subsection (1) insert—

9.3.1A

Where the CMA assists an overseas regulator in carrying out any of its
functions which correspond or are similar to the functions of the CMA under
this Part (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024), the CMA may publish a notice which may, in particular—

9.3.1A.a

state its decision to do so;

9.3.1A.b

identify the overseas regulator concerned;

9.3.1A.c

summarise the matter in respect of which the assistance is to be provided;

9.3.1A.d

identify any undertaking in respect of which the assistance is to be provided;

9.3.1A.e

identify the market which is or was affected by the matter in respect of which
the assistance is to be provided.

9.4

In subsection (2)—

9.4.a

after “subsection (1)” insert  “or  (1A) ” ;

9.4.b

for “that subsection” substitute  “the subsection concerned” .

10

10.1

Section 25B (duty to preserve documents relevant to investigations) (inserted
by  section 121 ) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1)—

10.2.a

the words after “knows or suspects that” become paragraph (a);

10.2.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

10.2.b.b

the CMA is assisting, or is likely to assist, an overseas regulator in
carrying out any of its functions which correspond or are similar to the
functions of the CMA under this Part (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5  of the
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024).

;

10.3

In subsection (2), at the end insert  “or to the provision of such assistance”
.

11

In section 40A (penalties: amount), in subsection (7), after paragraph (c)
insert—

11.d

in a case where the requirement was imposed in connection with the provision
by the CMA of assistance to an overseas regulator (see  Chapter 2  of  Part 5
of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024), the day on which
the overseas regulator no longer requires that assistance.

  Duty of expedition on sectoral regulators in respect of their competition
functions

Section 327

##### The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)

1

1.1

The Civil Aviation Act 2012 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 61 (functions of the CAA under Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002:
supplementary), after subsection (11) insert—

1.2.12

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any
relevant 2002 Act functions, the CAA must have regard to the need for making a
decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

1.3

In section 63 (functions of the CAA under the Competition Act 1998:
supplementary), after subsection (3) insert—

1.3.3A

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any
relevant 1998 Act functions that are functions within  Schedule 4A  to the
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of  paragraph 5  of that
Schedule, the CAA must have regard to the need for making a decision, or
taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

2

In section 86 of the Transport Act 2000 (functions of the CAA with respect to
competition) after subsection (7) insert—

2.8

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

2.8.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

2.8.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the CAA must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking action,
as soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)

3

3.1

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 234I (functions of the FCA under Part 4 of EA 2002), after
subsection (8) insert—

3.2.9

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that, by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable
concurrently with the CMA, the FCA must have regard to the need for making a
decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

3.3

In section 234J (functions of the FCA under CA 1998), after subsection (5)
insert—

3.3.6

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

3.3.6.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

3.3.6.b

are functions within  Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act
2013 by virtue of  paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the FCA must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking action,
as soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation

4

In Article 29 of the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006
( S.I. 2006/3336 (N.I. 21))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for
Utility Regulation with respect to competition), after paragraph (10) insert—

4.11

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

4.11.a

by virtue of this Article, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

4.11.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Authority must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking
action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

5

In Article 23 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I.
2))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation with
respect to competition), after paragraph (9) insert—

5.10

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

5.10.a

by virtue of this Article, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

5.10.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Authority must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking
action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

6

In Article 46 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231
(N.I. 1))  (functions of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation
with respect to competition), at the end insert—

6.8

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

6.8.a

by virtue of this Article, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

6.8.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Authority must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking
action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Office of Communications (OFCOM)

7

7.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 370 (functions of OFCOM under Part 4 of EA 2002), after subsection
(12) insert—

7.2.13

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that, by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable
concurrently with the CMA, OFCOM must have regard to the need for making a
decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

7.3

In section 371 (functions of OFCOM under CA 1998), after subsection (12)
insert—

7.3.13

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

7.3.13.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

7.3.13.b

are functions within  Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act
2013 by virtue of  paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

OFCOM must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking action, as
soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem)

8

In section 36A of the Gas Act 1986 (functions of Ofgem with respect to
competition), after subsection (10) insert—

8.11

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

8.11.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

8.11.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Authority must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking
action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

9

In section 43 of the Electricity Act 1989 (functions of Ofgem with respect to
competition) at the end insert—

9.8

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that, by virtue of this section—

9.8.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

9.8.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Authority must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking
action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Office of Rail and Road (ORR)

10

In section 67 of the Railways Act 1993 (functions of the ORR with respect to
competition) at the end insert—

10.11

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

10.11.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

10.11.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Office of Rail and Road must have regard to the need for making a
decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Payment Systems Regulator

11

11.1

The Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 59 (functions of the Payment Systems Regulator under Part 4 of EA
2002), after subsection (6) insert—

11.2.7

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that, by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable
concurrently with the CMA, the Payment Systems Regulator must have regard to
the need for making a decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably
practicable.

11.3

In section 61 (functions of the Payment Systems Regulator under CA 1998),
after subsection (5) insert—

11.3.6

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

11.3.6.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

11.3.6.b

are functions within  Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act
2013 by virtue of  paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Payment Systems Regulator must have regard to the need for making a
decision, or taking action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

##### The Water Services Regulation Authority (Ofwat)

12

In section 31 of the Water Industry Act 1991 (functions of Ofwat with respect
to competition) at the end insert—

12.10

In making any decision, or otherwise taking action, for the purposes of any of
its functions that—

12.10.a

by virtue of this section, are functions exercisable concurrently with the
CMA, and

12.10.b

in the case of functions under the Competition Act 1998, are functions within
Schedule 4A  to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 by virtue of
paragraph 5  of that Schedule,

the Authority must have regard to the need for making a decision, or taking
action, as soon as reasonably practicable.

  Minor and consequential amendments

Section 335

##### Amendments to Acts of Parliament

###### Competition Act 

1

The Competition Act 1980 is amended as follows.

2

In section 11B(1) (references under section 11: powers of investigation and
penalties), in the words before paragraph (a)—

2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the date
on which  section 143  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024 came into force and,” ;

2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

3

In section 11C(1) (references under section 11: further supplementary
provisions), in the words before paragraph (a)—

3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the date on
which  section 143  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024
came into force,” ; and

3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

4

In section 11D(7) (interim orders), in paragraph (d), after “penalties)”
insert  “as it had effect immediately before the date on which  section 143
of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force” .

###### Telecommunications Act 

5

In section 101 of the Telecommunications Act 1984 (general restrictions on
disclosure of information), in subsection (3)—

5.a

omit paragraph (v);

5.b

after paragraph (w) insert—

5.b.x

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

5.b.x.i

Part 3 ;

5.b.x.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

5.b.x.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Companies Act 

6

In paragraph 17 of Schedule 15D to the Companies Act 1985 (disclosures), after
sub-paragraph (m) insert—

6.n

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

6.n.i

Part 3 ;

6.n.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

6.n.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Airports Act 

7

In section 74 of the Airports Act 1986 (restriction on disclosure of
information), in subsection (3)—

7.a

omit paragraph (v);

7.b

after paragraph (y) insert—

7.b.z

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

7.b.z.i

Part 3 ;

7.b.z.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

7.b.z.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Gas Act 

8

8.1

Section 41EB of the Gas Act 1986 (references under section 41E: application of
EA 2002) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

8.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

8.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

8.3

In subsection (4)—

8.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

8.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

8.4

In subsection (5)—

8.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

8.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

8.5

After subsection (6) insert—

8.5.7

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

###### Water Act 

9

In section 174 of the Water Act 1989 (general restrictions on disclosure of
information), in subsection (3)—

9.a

omit paragraph (lp);

9.b

after paragraph (o) insert—

9.b.p

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

9.b.p.i

Part 3 ;

9.b.p.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

9.b.p.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Electricity Act 

10

10.1

Section 56CB of the Electricity Act 1989 (references under section 56C:
application of EA 2002) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

10.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

10.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

10.3

In subsection (4)—

10.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

10.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

10.4

In subsection (5)—

10.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

10.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

10.5

After subsection (6) insert—

10.5.7

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

###### Water Industry Act 

11

The Water Industry Act 1991 is amended as follows.

12

12.1

Section 14B (references under section 14: powers of investigation) is amended
as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

12.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

12.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

12.3

In subsection (4)—

12.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had”

12.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

12.4

After subsection (5) insert—

12.4.6

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

13

13.1

Section 16B (CMA’s power of veto following report: supplementary) is amended
as follows.

13.2

In subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a)—

13.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

13.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

13.3

In subsection (9)—

13.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

13.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

13.4

After subsection (10) insert—

13.4.11

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

14

14.1

Section 17M (references under section 17K: powers of investigation) is amended
as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

14.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

14.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

14.3

In subsection (4)—

14.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

14.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

14.4

After subsection (5) insert—

14.4.6

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

15

15.1

Section 17Q (section 17P: supplementary) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a)—

15.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

15.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

15.3

In subsection (9)—

15.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

15.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

15.4

After subsection (10) insert—

15.4.11

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

16

In Part 2 of Schedule 15 (enactments etc in respect of which disclosure may be
made)—

16.a

at the end of the list insert—

      The following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024—         Part 3 ;           Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;
Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

;

16.b

omit the entry for subordinate legislation made for the purpose of securing
compliance with  Directive 2005/29/EC  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial
practices in the internal market.

###### Railways Act 

17

The Railways Act 1993 is amended as follows.

18

18.1

Section 13B (references under section 13: application of EA 2002) is amended
as follows.

18.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

18.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

18.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

18.3

In subsection (4)—

18.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

18.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

18.4

In subsection (5)—

18.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

18.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

18.5

After subsection (6) insert—

18.5.7

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

19

19.1

Section 15C (sections 15A and 15B: supplementary) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (2D), in the words before paragraph (a)—

19.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

19.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

19.3

In subsection (2G)—

19.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

19.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

19.4

In subsection (2H)—

19.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

19.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

19.5

After subsection (4) insert—

19.5.5

In this section “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

20

In section 145 (general restrictions on disclosure of information), in
subsection (3)—

20.a

omit paragraph (qu);

20.b

after paragraph (v) insert—

20.b.w

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

20.b.w.i

Part 3 ;

20.b.w.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

20.b.w.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

21

Schedule 4A (review of access charges by the Office of Rail and Road) is
amended as follows.

22

22.1

Paragraph 10A (references under paragraph 9: application of EA 2002) is
amended as follows.

22.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

22.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

22.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

22.3

In sub-paragraph (4)—

22.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

22.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

22.4

In sub-paragraph (5)—

22.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

22.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

22.5

After sub-paragraph (6) insert—

22.5.7

In this paragraph “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143
of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

23

23.1

Paragraph 15 (paragraphs 13 and 14: supplementary) is amended as follows.

23.2

In sub-paragraph (2D), in the words before paragraph (a)—

23.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

23.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

23.3

In sub-paragraph (2G)—

23.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

23.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

23.4

In sub-paragraph (2H)—

23.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

23.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

23.5

After sub-paragraph (4) insert—

23.5.5

In this paragraph “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143
of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

###### Coal Industry Act 

24

In section 59 of the Coal Industry Act 1994 (information to be kept
confidential by the Coal Authority), in subsection (4)—

24.a

omit paragraph (q);

24.b

after paragraph (t) insert—

24.b.u

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

24.b.u.i

Part 3 ;

24.b.u.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

24.b.u.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Greater London Authority Act 

25

In section 235 of the Greater London Authority Act 1999 (restrictions on
disclosure of information), in subsection (3)—

25.a

omit paragraph (ru);

25.b

after paragraph (v) insert—

25.b.w

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

25.b.w.i

Part 3 ;

25.b.w.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

25.b.w.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Utilities Act 

26

In section 105 of the Utilities Act 2000 (general restrictions on disclosure
of information), in subsection (6)—

26.a

omit paragraph (w);

26.b

after paragraph (z1) insert—

26.b.z2

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

26.b.z2.i

Part 3 ;

26.b.z2.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

26.b.z2.iii

Chapter 2  of Part 5.

###### Transport Act 

27

In Schedule 9 to the Transport Act 2000 (air traffic: information), in
paragraph 3(3)—

27.a

after paragraph (rh) insert—

27.a.ri

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

27.a.ri.i

Part 3 ;

27.a.ri.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

27.a.ri.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

27.b

omit paragraph (sa).

###### Communications Act 

28

In section 393 of the Communications Act 2003 (general restrictions on
disclosure of information), in subsection (5)—

28.a

omit paragraph (q);

28.b

after paragraph (s) insert—

28.b.t

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

28.b.t.i

Part 1 ;

28.b.t.ii

Part 3 ;

28.b.t.iii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

28.b.t.iv

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Wireless Telegraphy Act 

29

In section 111 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 (general restrictions), in
subsection (6)—

29.a

omit paragraph (o);

29.b

after paragraph (p) insert—

29.b.q

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

29.b.q.i

Part 1 ;

29.b.q.ii

Part 3 ;

29.b.q.iii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

29.b.q.iv

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Companies Act 

30

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Companies Act 2006 (specified descriptions of
disclosures), in section (A) (United Kingdom), in paragraph 25, after
paragraph (l) insert—

30.m

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

30.m.i

Part 3 ;

30.m.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

30.m.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Legal Services Act 

31

In section 60(9) of the Legal Services Act 2007 (duties of the CMA), in the
words before paragraph (a)—

31.a

after “apply”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “, as they had effect
immediately before the date on which  section 143  of the Digital Markets,
Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force,” ;

31.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

###### Postal Services Act 

32

In section 60(6) of the Postal Services Act 2011 (section 59: supplementary),
in paragraph (a), after “CMA),” insert  “as they had effect immediately before
the date on which  section 143  of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024 came into force,” .

###### Civil Aviation Act 

33

In Schedule 6 to the Civil Aviation Act 2012 (restrictions on disclosure of
information), in paragraph 4—

33.a

in sub-paragraph (3), in the list of relevant statutory provisions, after the
entry for “Water Act 2014” insert—

      the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024—         Part 3 ;           Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;
Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

;

33.b

in sub-paragraph (4), omit paragraph (b).

##### Amendments to other legislation

###### Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 (

34

The Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 is amended as follows.

35

In Article 63 (general restrictions on disclosure of information), in
paragraph (6)—

35.a

omit sub-paragraph (w);

35.b

after sub-paragraph (x) insert—

35.b.y

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

35.b.y.i

Part 3 ;

35.b.y.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

35.b.y.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

36

36.1

In Schedule 2 (orders altering licensable activities), paragraph 5 (references
under paragraph 3: application of EA 2002) is amended as follows.

36.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

36.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

36.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

36.3

In sub-paragraph (4)—

36.3.a

after “shall apply” insert  “, as it had effect immediately before the
relevant date,” ;

36.3.b

for “applies” substitute  “applied immediately before that date” .

36.4

In sub-paragraph (5)—

36.4.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

36.4.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

36.5

After sub-paragraph (6) insert—

36.5.7

In this paragraph “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143
of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

###### Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act 2005 (Consequential Provisions and Modifications) Order 2005 (

37

The Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act 2005 (Consequential Provisions and
Modifications) Order 2005 is amended as follows.

38

38.1

Article 5 (references: powers of investigation) is amended as follows.

38.2

In paragraph (1), in the words before sub-paragraph (a)—

38.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

38.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

38.3

In paragraph (5)—

38.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

38.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

38.4

After paragraph (5) insert—

38.4.6

In this article “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

39

39.1

Article 10 (Article 9: supplementary) is amended as follows.

39.2

In paragraph (3), in the words before sub-paragraph (a)—

39.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

39.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

39.3

In paragraph (7)—

39.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

39.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

39.4

After paragraph (7) insert—

39.4.8

In this Article “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

###### Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 (

40

The Water and Sewerage Services (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 is amended as
follows.

41

41.1

Article 23 (references under Article 21: powers of investigation) is amended
as follows.

41.2

In paragraph (1), in the words before sub-paragraph (a)—

41.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

41.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

41.3

In paragraph (4)—

41.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

41.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

41.4

After paragraph (5) insert—

41.4.6

In this Article “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

42

42.1

Article 27 (CMA’s power of veto following report: supplementary) is amended as
follows.

42.2

In paragraph (6), in the words before sub-paragraph (a)—

42.2.a

after “shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the
relevant date and” ;

42.2.b

for “apply”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “applied immediately
before that date” .

42.3

In paragraph (9)—

42.3.a

for “have”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “, immediately before
the relevant date, had” ;

42.3.b

at the end insert  “as those provisions had effect immediately before that
date” .

42.4

After paragraph (10) insert—

42.4.11

In this Article “ the relevant date ” means the date on which  section 143  of
the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 came into force.

43

In Article 265 (restrictions on disclosure of information), in paragraph (5)—

43.a

omit sub-paragraph (s);

43.b

after sub-paragraph (t) insert—

43.b.u

the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act
2024—

43.b.u.i

Part 3 ;

43.b.u.ii

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

43.b.u.iii

Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

###### Postal Services (Appeals to the Competition Commission) (Investigations and Extension of Time Limits) Order 2011 (

44

In Article 3 of the Postal Services (Appeals to the Competition Commission)
(Investigations and Extension of Time Limits) Order 2011 (application of
sections 109 to 117 of the 2002 Act), in the words before paragraph (a), after
“shall apply,” insert  “as they had effect immediately before the date on
which  section 143  of the Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024
came into force and” .

###### Postal Services Act 2011 (Disclosure of Information) Order 2012 (

45

In Article 4 of the Postal Services Act 2011 (Disclosure of Information) Order
2012, in the list of prescribed enactments—

45.a

omit the entry for the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008;

45.b

after the entry relating to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 insert—

      the following provisions of the Digital Markets, Competition and
Consumers Act 2024—         Part 1 ;           Part 3 ;           Chapter 1
of  Part 4 ;           Chapter 2  of  Part 5 .

