Title: Finance Act 2024
Date: 2024-10-18
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/3

## Finance Act 2024

      Most Gracious Sovereign           W e  , Your Majesty’s most dutiful and
loyal subjects, the Commons of the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled,
towards raising the necessary supplies to defray Your Majesty’s public
expenses, and making an addition to the public revenue, have freely and
voluntarily resolved to give and to grant unto Your Majesty the several duties
hereinafter mentioned; and do therefore most humbly beseech Your Majesty that
it may be enacted, and be it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by
and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and
Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows:—

### Income tax and corporation tax

#### Reliefs for businesses etc

##### Capital allowances for companies

###### Permanent full expensing etc for expenditure on plant or machinery

1

1.1

In section 7 of F(No.2)A 2023 (temporary full expensing etc for expenditure on
plant or machinery), in subsection (3), in the inserted section 45S of CAA
2001, in paragraph (a), omit “but before 1 April 2026”.

1.2

In consequence of the provision made by  subsection (1) —

1.2.a

the amendments made by subsections (2) to (6) of section 7 of F(No.2)A 2023
are instead to operate as textual amendments of Part 2 of CAA 2001, and

1.2.b

accordingly, in subsection (1) of that section, for the words from “has
effect” to the end substitute  “is amended as follows” , and, in the italic
heading inserted by subsection (6) of that section, omit “temporary”.

##### Research and development

###### New regime for research and development carried out by companies

2

Schedule 1 —

2.a

replaces the existing scheme for R&D expenditure credit,

2.b

amends the existing scheme for R&D relief, and

2.c

makes related provision.

##### Films, television programmes, video games etc

###### Films, television programmes and video games produced by companies

3

Schedule 2  replaces Parts 15 to 15B of CTA 2009 with a new regime for the
taxation of companies producing films, television programmes and video games,
including relief in the form of payable credits arising from expenditure on
production activities.

###### Theatrical productions made by companies

4

Schedule 3  amends the regime for the taxation of companies producing
theatrical productions in Part 15C of CTA 2009.

###### Orchestral concerts produced by companies

5

Schedule 4  amends the regime for the taxation of companies producing
orchestral concerts in Part 15D of CTA 2009.

###### Museum and gallery exhibitions produced by companies

6

Schedule 5  amends the regime for the taxation of companies producing museum
and gallery exhibitions in Part 15E of CTA 2009.

###### Sections 

7

Schedule 6  amends Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns etc) in
relation to the reliefs introduced or amended by sections  3  to  6 .

##### Real Estate Investment Trusts

###### Miscellaneous amendments relating to REITs

8

Schedule 7  makes miscellaneous amendments to the corporation tax regime for
Real Estate Investment Trusts.

##### Tonnage tax

###### Managers of ships

9

Schedule 8  amends Schedule 22 to FA 2000 to make provision to enable
companies, and groups of companies, that manage qualifying ships to make a
tonnage tax election (so that their profits for the purposes of corporation
tax are calculated in accordance with the tonnage tax regime).

###### Increase in capital allowances limit for ship leasing

10

10.1

Paragraph 94 of Schedule 22 to FA 2000 (tonnage tax: restrictions on capital
allowances) is amended as follows.

10.2

In sub-paragraph (3), for “£40 million”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“£100 million” .

10.3

In sub-paragraph (5), for “£80 million” substitute  “£200 million” .

10.4

The amendments made by subsections (2) and (3) have effect in relation to
leases entered into on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Other reliefs

###### Extension of EIS relief and VCT relief to shares issued before 6 April 2035

11

11.1

In—

11.1.a

section 157(1)(aa) of ITA 2007 (which limits EIS relief to shares issued
before 6 April 2025), and

11.1.b

section 261(3)(za) of that Act (which limits VCT relief to shares issued
before that date),

for “2025” substitute  “2035” .

11.2

This section comes into force on such day as the Treasury may by regulations
appoint.

###### Relief for payments of compensation by government etc to companies

12

12.1

FA 2020 is amended as follows.

12.2

After paragraph 5 of Schedule 15 (tax relief for scheme payments) insert—

############ Corporation tax and other related relief

############# Introductory

12.2.6

This Part of this Schedule provides for the following—

12.2.6.a

an exemption from corporation tax for relevant compensation payments, and

12.2.6.b

an exemption from income tax and capital gains tax for relevant onward
payments.

############# Relevant compensation payments

12.2.7

12.2.7.1

In this Part of this Schedule “ relevant compensation payment ” means a
payment made to a company under—

12.2.7.1.a

the GLO Compensation Scheme,

12.2.7.1.b

the Horizon Shortfall Scheme,

12.2.7.1.c

the Suspension Remuneration Review,

12.2.7.1.d

the Post Office Process Review, or

12.2.7.1.e

such other compensation scheme of a description specified in regulations made
by the Treasury.

12.2.7.2

The power under sub-paragraph  (1) (e)  to specify a description of
compensation scheme is exercisable only if the scheme provides for the payment
of compensation to persons by or on behalf of—

12.2.7.2.a

the government of the United Kingdom,

12.2.7.2.b

the government of a part of the United Kingdom,

12.2.7.2.c

the government of any other country or territory,

12.2.7.2.d

a local or other public authority in the United Kingdom, or

12.2.7.2.e

a local or other public authority of a territory outside the United Kingdom.

12.2.7.3

The power under sub-paragraph  (1) (e)  may be exercised so as to provide—

12.2.7.3.a

for the provisions of this Part of this Schedule to apply to all descriptions
of payments made under a compensation scheme or only to such descriptions as
may be specified in the regulations;

12.2.7.3.b

for all provisions of this Part of this Schedule to apply to payments made
under a compensation scheme or only for such provisions to apply as are
specified in the regulations.

12.2.7.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (1) (e)  must be exercised so as to provide
that the reliefs conferred by this Part of this Schedule in respect of the
compensation schemes mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (d) are also
conferred in a corresponding or similar way in respect of other relevant
schemes.

12.2.7.5

The reference in sub-paragraph (4) to “ relevant schemes ” is a reference to
any compensation schemes established for the purposes of—

12.2.7.5.a

compensating persons affected by the Horizon system, or

12.2.7.5.b

compensating persons in respect of other matters identified in High Court
judgments given in proceedings relating to the Horizon system.

############# Relevant onward payments

12.2.8

12.2.8.1

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule a payment is a “relevant onward
payment” if or to the extent that—

12.2.8.1.a

the payment is made by a company to which a relevant compensation payment was
made,

12.2.8.1.b

the payment is to an individual and—

12.2.8.1.b.i

the individual is or was a director or employee of the company, or

12.2.8.1.b.ii

the payment is a distribution by the company to shareholders, and

12.2.8.1.c

it is reasonable to conclude from the circumstances that the payment is made
by the company to the individual for the purpose of passing on all or part of
the compensation payment mentioned in paragraph (a) to the individual.

12.2.8.2

But where sub-paragraph (3) applies to the relevant compensation payment
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a), a payment to an individual is a relevant
onward payment for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule only so far as
it relates to such part of the relevant compensation payment as was made for
the purpose of topping up the amount of compensation paid to account for sums
lost to tax.

12.2.8.3

This sub-paragraph applies to a relevant compensation payment—

12.2.8.3.a

made (at any time) under the Horizon Shortfall Scheme;

12.2.8.3.b

made before 1 January 2024 under the Suspension Remuneration Review.

############# Exemption from corporation tax

12.2.9

12.2.9.1

No liability to corporation tax arises in respect of a relevant compensation
payment.

12.2.9.2

The following are to be ignored for all other corporation tax purposes—

12.2.9.2.a

the receipt by a company of a relevant compensation payment;

12.2.9.2.b

the making by a company of a relevant onward payment.

12.2.9.3

This paragraph has effect—

12.2.9.3.a

in the case of relevant compensation payments falling within paragraph  7
(1)(a), (b), (c) or (d), whenever the payments are received;

12.2.9.3.b

in the case of relevant compensation payments falling within paragraph  7
(1)(e), where the payments are received on or after such date as is specified
in the regulations concerned;

12.2.9.3.c

in the case of relevant onward payments that relate to paragraph  7 (1)(a),
(b), (c) or (d), whenever the payments are made;

12.2.9.3.d

in the case of relevant onward payments that relate to paragraph  7 (1)(e),
where the payments are made on or after such date as is specified in the
regulations concerned.

12.2.9.4

The date specified in regulations as mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(b) and (d)
may be a date before the regulations are made.

############# Exemption from income tax and capital gains tax

12.2.10

12.2.10.1

Paragraph 3(1) and (2) (exemption from income tax) applies to a relevant
onward payment as it applies to a qualifying payment.

12.2.10.2

Paragraph 4(1) and (2) (exemption from capital gains tax) applies to a
relevant onward payment as it applies to a qualifying payment.

12.2.10.3

Sub-paragraph (1) has effect—

12.2.10.3.a

in the case of relevant onward payments that relate to paragraph  7 (1)(a),
(b), (c) or (d), whenever the payments are received;

12.2.10.3.b

in the case of relevant onward payments that relate to paragraph  7 (1)(e),
where the payments are received on or after such date as is specified in the
regulations concerned.

12.2.10.4

Sub-paragraph (2) has effect—

12.2.10.4.a

in the case of relevant onward payments that relate to paragraph  7 (1)(a),
(b), (c) or (d), in relation to disposals whenever made;

12.2.10.4.b

in the case of relevant onward payments that relate to paragraph  7 (1)(e), in
relation to disposals made on or after such date as is specified in the
regulations concerned.

12.2.10.5

The date specified in regulations as mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(b) and
(4)(b) may be a date before the regulations are made.

############# Power to make further provision

12.2.11

12.2.11.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision for the purpose of providing
relief from corporation tax, income tax or capital gains tax in relation to
the receipt of payments made under compensation schemes that is supplementary
or incidental to provision contained in this Part of this Schedule.

12.2.11.2

Provision under this paragraph may (among other things)—

12.2.11.2.a

make different provision for different compensation schemes;

12.2.11.2.b

make provision having retrospective effect.

############# Regulations: general

12.2.12

12.2.12.1

A power to make regulations under this Part of this Schedule is exercisable by
statutory instrument.

12.2.12.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Part of this Schedule
is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

############# Interpretation

12.2.13

12.2.13.1

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ GLO Compensation Scheme ” means the scheme announced by His Majesty’s
Government on 22 March 2022 with the objective of ensuring that persons who
were party to a claim against Post Office Limited in respect of the Horizon
system that was subject to a group litigation order have access to
compensation for losses related to that system;           “ Horizon Shortfall
Scheme ” means the scheme established on 1 May 2020 by Post Office Limited to
compensate persons who were adversely affected by accounting shortfalls
related to the Horizon system;           “ the Horizon system ” means previous
versions of the computer system used by Post Office Limited known as Horizon
(and sometimes referred to as Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X);
“ Post Office Limited ” means the private company limited by shares with the
company number 02154540 whose registered office is 100 Wood Street, London
EC2V 7ER;           “ Post Office Process Review ” means the review
established by Post Office Limited to provide redress to postmasters who were
financially impacted by previous processes or policies in relation to balance
discrepancies unrelated to the Horizon system;           “ Suspension
Remuneration Review ” means the review established by Post Office Limited to
provide redress to postmasters contracted to deliver Post Office services
through branches who were suspended before March 2019 and did not receive
remuneration during their period of suspension.

12.2.13.2

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule—

12.2.13.2.a

a relevant onward payment “relates” to paragraph  7 (1)(a) if the related
relevant compensation payment mentioned in paragraph  8 (1)(c) falls within
paragraph  7 (1)(a) (and references to payments relating to paragraph  7
(1)(b), (c), (d) or (e) are to be read accordingly);

12.2.13.2.b

references to a compensation scheme include references to any arrangements for
the making of payments of compensation.

12.3

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection (2)—

12.3.a

in section 102—

12.3.a.i

omit “and” after paragraph (b), and

12.3.a.ii

after that paragraph insert—

12.3.a.ii.ba

payments made under or otherwise referable to compensation schemes established
in connection with certain matters relating to Post Office Limited, and

;

12.3.b

before paragraph 1 of Schedule 15 (and the italic heading before it) insert—

  Part 1

  Income tax and other related relief

;

12.3.c

in each of the following provisions of Schedule 15, before “Schedule” insert
“Part of this” —

12.3.c.i

paragraph 1(1);

12.3.c.ii

paragraph 1(2);

12.3.c.iii

paragraph 2(6).”

###### Enterprise management incentives: time limits

13

13.1

Part 7 of Schedule 5 to ITEPA 2003 (enterprise management incentives:
notification of options) is amended as follows.

13.2

In paragraph 44(1) (time within which notice of options must be given to HMRC)
for “within 92 days after the date of the grant of the option” substitute  “on
or before 6 July following the end of the tax year in which the option was
granted” .

13.3

In paragraph 46(5) (time for giving of notices of enquiry)—

13.3.a

for “end of the period of 92 days” substitute  “date” ;

13.3.b

for “period within” substitute  “date by” .

13.4

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to share options
(within the meaning of the EMI code (see paragraph 59 of Schedule 5 to ITEPA
2003)) granted on or after 6 April 2024.

#### Pensions

##### Provision in connection with abolition of the lifetime allowance charge

14

14.1

Schedule 9  contains amendments in consequence of, or otherwise in connection
with, the provision made by sections 18, 19 and 23 of F(No.2)A 2023 (which
relate to the abolition of the lifetime allowance charge).

14.2

In that Schedule—

14.2.a

Part  1  contains repeals of the provisions of Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension
schemes etc) that impose the lifetime allowance charge, and amendments
relating to those repeals;

14.2.b

Part  2  contains amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004, Part 9 of ITEPA 2003, and
subordinate legislation, relating to the taxation of lump sums paid by
registered pension schemes;

14.2.c

Part  3  contains amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004, Part 9 of ITEPA 2003, and
subordinate legislation, relating to the taxation of lump sums paid by certain
unregistered non-UK pension schemes and to the overseas transfer charge;

14.2.d

Part  4  contains amendments of provisions that confer transitional
protections in relation to the introduction of the lifetime allowance charge
or reductions in the amount of the lifetime allowance;

14.2.e

Part  5  contains amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004 and subordinate legislation
relating to the provision of information;

14.2.f

Part  6  contains provision about commencement and transitional matters, and
powers to make further provision.

14.3

The following provisions of F(No.2)A 2023 (which are superseded by the
amendments contained in Parts 1 and 2 of  Schedule 9 ) are repealed—

      section 18 (abolition of lifetime allowance charge);           section
19 (certain lump sums to be taxed at marginal rate).

14.4

The amendments contained in  Schedule 9  include repeals of provisions that
are spent or are no longer of practical utility.

##### MPs’ pension scheme etc: rectification of discrimination

15

15.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about the treatment for the
purposes of income tax or capital gains tax of—

15.1.a

rectification payments, or tax redress payments, made to or in respect of a
member of a relevant pension scheme,

15.1.b

tax windfalls resulting from a rectification exercise, or

15.1.c

increases or decreases resulting from a rectification exercise in—

15.1.c.i

the rate of a scheme pension payable by a relevant pension scheme, or

15.1.c.ii

the value of any rights under a relevant pension scheme in respect of a
member.

15.2

“ Relevant pension scheme ” means—

15.2.a

an MPs’ pension scheme,

15.2.b

a Senedd pension scheme, or

15.2.c

an Assembly pension scheme.

15.3

“ Rectification payment ” means—

15.3.a

a payment of pension benefits that—

15.3.a.i

are payable as a result of a rectification exercise, and

15.3.a.ii

would have become payable at an earlier time if the rectification exercise had
been retrospective, or

15.3.b

a refund of pension contributions that is owed as a result of a rectification
exercise.

15.4

“ Tax redress payment ” means a payment made to or in respect of a member of a
relevant pension scheme where—

15.4.a

the member was subject to a rectification exercise, and

15.4.b

the payment represents compensation for an amount paid in respect of an income
tax liability for any tax year that would not have arisen if the rectification
exercise had been retrospective.

15.5

“ Tax windfall ”, in relation to a rectification exercise and a member of a
relevant pension scheme, means—

15.5.a

a liability of the member for the annual allowance charge that would have
arisen in the tax year 2023-24 or any earlier tax year, or

15.5.b

a liability of the member for the lifetime allowance charge that would have
arisen in the tax year 2022-23 or any earlier tax year,

if the rectification exercise had been retrospective.

15.6

“ Rectification exercise ” means an exercise, conducted by a relevant pension
scheme in accordance with the rules of the scheme, under which the benefits
payable to or in respect of a member in respect of the member’s remediable
service (or any part of the member’s remediable service)—

15.6.a

cease to be career average benefits and become instead final salary benefits,
or

15.6.b

cease to be final salary benefits and become instead career average benefits.

15.7

Regulations under this section may—

15.7.a

modify any enactment contained in the Income Tax Acts or relating to capital
gains tax;

15.7.b

impose a charge to income tax in relation to a tax windfall;

15.7.c

make different provision for different cases;

15.7.d

include consequential, incidental, supplemental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

15.8

Regulations under this section—

15.8.a

if made before 6 April 2025, may be made so as to have effect in relation to
the tax year 2024-25;

15.8.b

if made on or after 6 April 2025, may include provision that has effect in
relation to times before the regulations are made if that provision does not
increase any person’s liability to tax.

15.9

In this section—

      “ an Assembly pension scheme ” means a pension scheme made under section
48 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;           “ lifetime allowance charge ”
means the charge to income tax under section 214 of FA 2004, as it had effect
before its repeal by this Act;           “ modify ” includes disapply or
supplement;           “ an MPs’ pension scheme ” means a pension scheme made
under paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 6 to the Constitutional Reform and
Governance Act 2010;           “ remediable service ” means service that is
pensionable service under a relevant pension scheme and—         in the case
of service that is pensionable service under an MPs’ pension scheme, takes
place in the period beginning with 8 May 2015 and ending with 31 March 2023;
in the case of service that is pensionable service under a Senedd pension
scheme or an Assembly pension scheme, takes place in the period beginning with
6 May 2016 and ending with 6 May 2021;                 “ scheme pension ” has
the same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004 (pensions etc);           “ a Senedd
pension scheme ” means a pension scheme made under section 20 of the
Government of Wales Act 2006.

#### Other income tax measures

##### Calculation of trade profits etc

###### Provision relating to the cash basis

16

Schedule 10  contains provision about the calculation of the profits of a
trade, profession or vocation on the cash basis, including provision—

16.a

for the cash basis to be the default basis of calculation for certain persons,

16.b

removing eligibility conditions relating to receipts,

16.c

removing restrictions on deductions for loan interest, and

16.d

removing restrictions on the availability of certain loss reliefs.

##### Other

###### PAYE regulations: special types of payer or payee

17

17.1

In Chapter 3 of Part 11 of ITEPA 2003 (pay as you earn: special types of payer
or payee), after section 688AA insert—

############ Workers’ providing services through intermediaries etc: cases where taxes already paid

17.1.688AB

17.1.688AB.1

PAYE regulations may make the following provision.

17.1.688AB.2

Provision for an amount to be treated as having been recovered from the payee,
and for that amount not to be recoverable from the payer (“the deemed
employer”), where—

17.1.688AB.2.a

the deemed employer would otherwise be liable to pay an amount under PAYE
regulations in consequence of being treated under section 61N(3) as having
made a deemed direct payment to a worker (other than by virtue of section
61WA), and

17.1.688AB.2.b

an amount of income tax or corporation tax has already been paid, or assessed,
in respect of income referable to that payment.

17.1.688AB.3

Provision for the amount referred to in the opening words of  subsection (2)
to be the best estimate which can reasonably be made by an officer of Revenue
and Customs (whether generally or specifically) of the amount referred to in
subsection (2) (b) .

17.1.688AB.4

Provision preventing a person specified in PAYE regulations from—

17.1.688AB.4.a

making a claim for the repayment of, or relief in respect of, an amount
referred to in  subsection (2) (b) , or

17.1.688AB.4.b

deducting, or setting off, the amount referred to in that subsection from, or
against, any tax liability of the person,

in a case where an estimate of that amount is treated as having been recovered
from the payee as a result of provision made by virtue of this section.

17.1.688AB.5

In this section, “ payee ” and “ payer ” have the same meaning as in section
684 (see subsection (7C) of that section).

17.2

PAYE Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may make provision in
relation to deemed direct payments made on or after 6 April 2017.

###### Carer’s allowance supplement: correction of statutory reference

18

18.1

In Table A in section 660 of ITEPA 2003 (taxable UK benefits), in the entry
for carer’s allowance supplement, for “Sections 24 and 28” substitute
“Section 81” .

18.2

The amendment made by  subsection (1)  is treated as having had effect from
the time when section 12 of FA 2019 (tax treatment of social security income)
came into force.

### Other taxes

#### Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax

##### Growth market exemption: qualifying UK multilateral trading facilities etc

19

19.1

Section 99A of FA 1986 (meaning of “recognised growth market” etc) is amended
as follows.

19.2

In subsection (5)—

19.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “recognised stock exchange” insert
“or a qualifying UK multilateral trading facility” ;

19.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “£170 million” substitute  “£450 million” .

19.3

In subsection (6), at the end insert

;

      “ UK multilateral trading facility ” has the meaning given by Article
2.1.14A of  Regulation (EU) No.  600/2014  of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments as it forms
part of assimilated law.

19.4

After subsection (6) insert—

19.4.6A

For the purposes of subsection (5) a UK multilateral trading facility is
“qualifying” if—

19.4.6A.a

it is operated by an investment firm within the meaning given by article 3(1)
of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order
2001 ( S.I. 2001/544 ), and

19.4.6A.b

the investment firm has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 to carry on the regulated activity (within the meaning of
that Act) of operating a multilateral trading facility.

19.5

The amendments made by this section are treated as having come into force on 1
January 2024.

##### Capital-raising arrangements etc

20

Schedule 11  makes provision for and in connection with ensuring that it
continues to be the case that—

20.a

no 1.5% charge to stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax arises in relation to—

20.a.i

issues of securities or stock, or

20.a.ii

transfers of securities made in the course of capital-raising arrangements or
qualifying listing arrangements, and

20.b

no charge to stamp duty arises in relation to the issue of bearer instruments.

#### Electricity generator levy

##### New investment exemption

21

21.1

Part 5 of F(No.2)A 2023 (electricity generator levy) is amended as follows.

21.2

In section 280 (key concepts), in subsection (1), in the definition of “
relevant ” (as in relevant generating station)—

21.2.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (a), and

21.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

21.2.b.c

to the extent it is not comprised of qualifying new generating plant (see
section 311A );

.

21.3

After section 311 insert—

########### Meaning of “qualifying new generating plant”

21.3.311A

21.3.311A.1

Generating plant is “qualifying new generating plant” if it is new generating
plant commissioned as part of a qualifying project that meets the new
investment condition.

21.3.311A.2

The new investment condition is met in relation to a qualifying project if on
21 November 2023 it was reasonable to conclude, having regard to all of the
circumstances, that there is a significant likelihood of the project not
proceeding.

21.3.311A.3

The Treasury may by regulations provide for cases in which qualifying projects
are to be treated as meeting the new investment condition.

21.3.311A.4

“ Qualifying project ” means a project to commission—

21.3.311A.4.a

new generating plant for—

21.3.311A.4.a.i

a new generating station, or

21.3.311A.4.a.ii

an existing generating station which (as a result of the project) is to be
wholly or substantially comprised of new generating plant, or

21.3.311A.4.b

new generating plant that increases the generating capacity of an existing
generating station.

21.3.311A.5

Subsection  (6)  applies where new generating plant that increases the
generating capacity of an existing generating station replaces existing
generating plant.

21.3.311A.6

Only so much of the new generating plant as represents generating capacity in
excess of the capacity of the generating plant it replaces is to be regarded
as qualifying new generating plant.

21.4

In section 313 (definitions in this Part), in the table, at the appropriate
place insert—

    qualifying new generating plant section 311A

.

#### Pillar Two

##### Ensuring consistency of Parts 3 and 4 of F(No.2)A 2023 with OECD rules etc

22

Schedule 12  makes amendments to F(No.2)A 2023 in relation to multinational
top-up tax and in relation to domestic top-up tax.

#### Excise duty rates

##### Rates of tobacco products duty

23

23.1

In Schedule 1 to TPDA 1979 (table of rates of tobacco products duty), for the
Table substitute—

  TABLE     1 Cigarettes   An amount equal to the higher of—         16.5% of
the retail price plus £316.70 per thousand cigarettes, or           £422.80
per thousand cigarettes.         2 Cigars £395.03 per kilogram 3 Hand-rolling
tobacco £412.32 per kilogram 4 Other smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco
£173.68 per kilogram 5 Tobacco for heating £325.53 per kilogram

.

23.2

In consequence of the provision made by  subsection (1) , in Schedule 2 to the
Travellers’ Allowances Order 1994 (which provides in certain circumstances for
a simplified calculation of excise duty on goods brought into Great Britain)—

23.2.a

in the entry relating to cigarettes, for “£393.45” substitute  “£422.80” ,

23.2.b

in the entry relating to hand rolling tobacco, for “£351.03” substitute
“£412.32” ,

23.2.c

in the entry relating to other smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco, for
“£161.62” substitute  “£173.68” ,

23.2.d

in the entry relating to cigars, for “£367.61” substitute  “£395.03” ,

23.2.e

in the entry relating to cigarillos, for “£367.61” substitute  “£395.03” , and

23.2.f

in the entry relating to tobacco for heating, for “£90.88” substitute
“£97.66” .

23.3

The amendments made by this section are treated as having come into force at
6pm on 22 November 2023.

##### Rates of vehicle excise duty

24

24.1

Schedule 1 to VERA 1994 (annual rates of vehicle excise duty) is amended as
follows.

24.2

In paragraph 1 (general rate)—

24.2.a

in sub-paragraph (2) (vehicle not covered elsewhere in Schedule with engine
cylinder capacity exceeding 1,549cc), for “£325” substitute  “£345” , and

24.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2A) (vehicle not covered elsewhere in Schedule with engine
cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,549cc), for “£200” substitute  “£210” .

24.3

In paragraph 1B (graduated rates for light passenger vehicles registered
before 1 April 2017), for the Table substitute—

    CO2 Emissions Figure Rate (1) (2) (3) (4) Exceeding Not exceeding Reduced
rate Standard Rate g/km g/km £ £   100 110 10 20 110 120 25 35 120 130 150 160
130 140 180 190 140 150 200 210 150 165 245 255 165 175 295 305 175 185 325
335 185 200 375 385 200 225 405 415 225 255 700 710 255 — 725 735

.

24.4

In the sentence immediately following the Table in that paragraph, for
paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

24.4.a

in column (3), in the last two rows, “405” were substituted for “700” and
“725”, and

24.4.b

in column (4), in the last two rows, “415” were substituted for “710” and
“735”.

24.5

In paragraph 1GC (graduated rates for first licence for light passenger
vehicles registered on or after 1 April 2017), for Table 1 (vehicles other
than higher rate diesel vehicles) substitute—

    CO2 Emissions Figure Rate (1) (2) (3) (4) Exceeding Not exceeding Reduced
rate Standard Rate g/km g/km £ £   0 50 0 10 50 75 20 30 75 90 125 135 90 100
165 175 100 110 185 195 110 130 210 220 130 150 260 270 150 170 670 680 170
190 1085 1095 190 225 1640 1650 225 255 2330 2340 255 — 2735 2745

.

24.6

In that paragraph, for Table 2 (higher rate diesel vehicles) substitute—

    CO2 Emissions Figure Rate (1) (2) (3) Exceeding Not exceeding Rate g/km
g/km £   0 50 30 50 75 135 75 90 175 90 100 195 100 110 220 110 130 270 130
150 680 150 170 1095 170 190 1650 190 225 2340 225 255 2745 255 — 2745

.

24.7

In paragraph 1GD(1) (rates for any other licence for light passenger vehicles
registered on or after 1 April 2017)—

24.7.a

in paragraph (a) (reduced rate), for “£170” substitute  “£180” , and

24.7.b

in paragraph (b) (standard rate), for “£180” substitute  “£190” .

24.8

In paragraph 1GE(2) (rates for light passenger vehicles registered on or after
1 April 2017 with a price exceeding £40,000)—

24.8.a

in paragraph (a), for “£560” substitute  “£590” , and

24.8.b

in paragraph (b), for “£570” substitute  “£600” .

24.9

In paragraph 1J(a) (rates for light goods vehicles that are not pre-2007 or
post-2008 lower emission vans), for “£320” substitute  “£335” .

24.10

In paragraph 2(1) (rates for motorcycles)—

24.10.a

in paragraph (a) (engine cylinder capacity not exceeding 150cc), for “£24”
substitute  “£25” ,

24.10.b

in paragraph (b) (motorbicycles with engine cylinder capacity exceeding 150cc
but not exceeding 400cc), for “£52” substitute  “£55” ,

24.10.c

in paragraph (c) (motorbicycles with engine cylinder capacity exceeding 400cc
but not exceeding 600cc), for “£80” substitute  “£84” , and

24.10.d

in paragraph (d) (other cases), for “£111” substitute  “£117” .

24.11

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to licences taken
out on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Rates of air passenger duty

25

25.1

Section 30 of FA 1994 (air passenger duty: rates) is amended as follows.

25.2

In subsection (1B) (journeys ending in the United Kingdom)—

25.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “£6.50” substitute  “£7” , and

25.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “£13” substitute  “£14” .

25.3

In subsection (2A) (long-haul journeys)—

25.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “£87” substitute  “£88” , and

25.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “£191” substitute  “£194” .

25.4

In subsection (4A) (ultra-long haul journeys)—

25.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “£91” substitute  “£92” , and

25.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “£200” substitute  “£202” .

25.5

In subsection (4E) (journeys on aircraft equipped to carry fewer than 19
passengers)—

25.5.a

in paragraph (aa), for “£574” substitute  “£581” , and

25.5.b

in paragraph (d), for “£601” substitute  “£607” .

25.6

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to the carriage of
passengers beginning on or after 1 April 2024.

#### Miscellaneous VAT and excise measures

##### Rebate on heavy oil and certain bioblends used for heating

26

In Schedule 1A to HODA 1979 (excepted machines), in paragraph 8, in sub-
paragraph (1)(e), for the words from “kerosene” to the end substitute  “for
fuel—

26.i

heavy oil other than gas oil, or

26.ii

bioblend other than bioblend that is a mixture of biodiesel and gas oil.

##### Vehicle excise duty exemption for foreign vehicles

27

After section 5 of VERA 1994 (exempt vehicles) insert—

######### Additional power to exempt foreign vehicles

27.5A

27.5A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations confer an exemption from vehicle
excise duty in respect of a foreign vehicle.

27.5A.2

The regulations may, for or in connection with conferring the exemption, amend
subordinate legislation made under this Act or the Motor Vehicles
(International Circulation) Act 1952.

27.5A.3

The regulations may provide that the exemption of a foreign vehicle from
vehicle excise duty is—

27.5A.3.a

subject to conditions;

27.5A.3.b

limited to a specified period.

27.5A.4

Regulations under this section may make—

27.5A.4.a

provision which applies generally or for particular purposes;

27.5A.4.b

retrospective provision.

27.5A.5

A provision of regulations under this section that has the effect of removing
the exemption of a foreign vehicle from vehicle excise duty must not be made
so as to have retrospective effect.

27.5A.6

In this section—

      “ foreign vehicle ” means a vehicle that is registered under the law of
any territory outside the United Kingdom;           “ specified ” means
specified in the regulations;           “ subordinate legislation ” means
Orders in Council, orders and regulations (including any regulations made
under an Order in Council).

##### Interpretation of VAT and excise law

28

28.1

This section  makes provision about how—

28.1.a

the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (“EUWA 2018”), and

28.1.b

the amendments made to that Act by the Retained EU Law (Revocation and Reform)
Act 2023 (“REULA 2023”),

are to apply for the purpose of interpreting enactments relating to value
added tax or any duty of excise ( “VAT and excise law” ).

28.2

Section 4 of EUWA 2018 (retained EU rights, powers, liabilities etc) continues
to have effect (despite the provision made by section 2 of REULA 2023) for the
purpose of interpreting VAT and excise law subject to the following exception.

28.3

The exception is that Articles 110 and 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of
the European Union (which relate to internal taxation on products) have no
effect for that purpose.

28.4

Section 5(A1) to (A3) of EUWA 2018 (which are inserted by section 3 of REULA
2023 and which abolish the supremacy of EU law) have effect in relation to VAT
and excise law as they have effect in relation to other domestic enactments
but only so far as they relate to the disapplication or quashing of any
enactment as a result of EU law (and, accordingly, the superseded provisions
continue to have effect for the purpose of interpreting VAT and excise law).

28.5

Retained general principles of EU law—

28.5.a

continue to be relevant (despite the provision made by section 4 of REULA
2023) for the purpose of interpreting VAT and excise law in the same way, and
to the same extent, as they were relevant for that purpose before the coming
into force of that section, but

28.5.b

otherwise have effect for that purpose subject to the provision made by that
Act (including, in particular, the amendments made by section 6 of that Act
(role of courts)).

28.6

In  this section —

28.6.a

the reference to any duty of excise is to be read in accordance with section
49 of TCTA 2018,

28.6.b

the reference to the superseded provisions is a reference to section 5(1) to
(3) of EUWA 2018 as those subsections had effect immediately before the
passing of REULA 2023, and

28.6.c

the reference to retained general principles of EU law is to be read in
accordance with EUWA 2018 as that Act had effect immediately before the
passing of REULA 2023.

28.7

This section  needs to be read with sections 42 and 47 of TCTA 2018 (which
make other provision about EU law relating to VAT and excise law and which
continue to have effect for the purpose mentioned in  subsection (1)  above).

28.8

This section is treated as having come into force on 1 January 2024.

#### Environmental taxes

##### Rates of landfill tax

29

29.1

Section 42 of FA 1996 (amount of landfill tax) is amended as follows.

29.2

In subsection (1)(a) (standard rate), for “£102.10” substitute  “£103.70” .

29.3

In subsection (2) (reduced rate for certain disposals), in the words after
paragraph (b)—

29.3.a

for “£102.10” substitute  “£103.70” , and

29.3.b

for “£3.25” substitute  “£3.30” .

29.4

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to disposals made
(or treated as made) on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Rate of aggregates levy

30

30.1

In section 16(4) of FA 2001 (rate of aggregates levy), for “£2” substitute
“£2.03” .

30.2

The amendment made by this section has effect in relation to aggregate
subjected to commercial exploitation on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Rate of plastic packaging tax

31

31.1

In section 45(1) of FA 2021 (rate of plastic packaging tax), for “£210.82”
substitute  “£217.85” .

31.2

The amendment made by this section has effect in relation to packaging
components produced in, or imported into, the United Kingdom on or after 1
April 2024.

### Miscellaneous and final

#### Evasion, avoidance etc

##### Increase in maximum terms of imprisonment for tax offences

32

32.1

In the specified provisions of the following enactments, for “ seven ” (or
“7”) substitute  “14” —

    TMA 1970 Section 106A(2)(b) (fraudulent evasion of income tax) Customs and
Excise Duties (General Reliefs) Act 1979 Section 13C(4)(b) (relieved goods
used, etc, in breach of condition) CEMA 1979 Section 50(4)(b) (improper
importation of goods) Section 53(9)(b) (shipping etc dutiable or restricted
goods with fraudulent intent) Section 63(6)(b) (goods taken on board a ship
etc with fraudulent intent) Section 68(3)(b) (exportation of prohibited or
restricted goods with intent to evade prohibition or restriction) Section
68A(2)(b) (fraudulent evasion of agricultural levy) Section 100(4)(b) (taking
etc of warehoused goods with intent to defraud) Section 136(2)(b) (claims for
drawback etc with intent to defraud) Section 159(7)(b) (removing examinable
goods with intent to defraud) Section 170(3)(b) (fraudulent evasion of duty,
etc) Section 170B(1)(b) (taking preparatory steps for evasion of excise duty)
HODA 1979 Section 10(7)(b) (contravening restrictions on use of duty-free oil)
Section 13(5)(b) (contravening restrictions on use of heavy oil) Section
13AB(7)(b) (contravening restrictions on use of rebated kerosene) Section
14(8)(b) (contravening restrictions on use of light oil) Section 14D(5)(b)
(contravening restrictions on use of rebated biodiesel or bioblend) Section
14F(3)(b) (contravening restrictions on use of restricted fuel) (as
substituted by paragraph 9 of Schedule 11 to FA 2020) Section 20AAC(4)(d)
(contravening restrictions on use of aqua methanol) Section 24A(6)(b)
(contravening restrictions on use of marked oil) BGDA 1981 Paragraph 16(1)(b)
of Schedule 3 (fraudulent evasion of bingo duty) FA 1993 Section 31(2)(b)
(fraudulent evasion etc of lottery duty) VATA 1994 Section 72(1)(b), (3)(ii)
and (8)(b) (fraudulent evasion etc of VAT) FA 1994 Section 41(2)(b)
(fraudulent evasion etc of duty) Paragraph 10(1)(b), (3)(b) and (5)(b) of
Schedule 7 (fraudulent evasion etc of insurance premium tax) FA 1996 Paragraph
16(1)(b), (3)(b) and (5)(b) of Schedule 5 (fraudulent evasion etc of landfill
tax) FA 1997 Paragraph 12(3)(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 (fraudulent evasion etc of
gaming duty) FA 2000 Paragraphs 92(3)(b), 93(3)(b) and 94(3)(b) of Schedule 6
(fraudulent evasion etc of climate change levy) FA 2001 Paragraphs 1(3)(b),
2(3)(b) and 3(3)(b) of Schedule 6 (fraudulent evasion etc of aggregates levy)
FA 2003 Section 95(2)(b) (fraudulent evasion of stamp duty land tax) FA 2012
Paragraph 37(2)(a) of Schedule 24 (fraudulent evasion of machine games duty)
FA 2014 Section 174(3)(a) (fraudulent evasion of general betting duty, pool
betting duty and remote gaming duty) FA 2017 Section 50(3)(d)(i) (fraudulent
evasion of soft drinks levy) FA 2021 Section 77(3)(d)(i) (fraudulent evasion
of plastic packaging tax) Section 78(3)(d)(i) (false statements in connection
with plastic packaging tax) Section 79(3)(d)(i) (plastic packaging tax:
conduct involving evasions or false statements)

32.2

Subsections  (3)  to (5) make amendments to CEMA 1979 which are consequential
on amendments to that Act made by subsection  (1) .

32.3

In section 50—

32.3.a

in subsection (4) for “, (5AA), (5B) or (5C)” substitute  “or (5B)” ,

32.3.b

in subsection (5A) for “ 7 ” (in the closing words) substitute  “14” ,

32.3.c

omit subsection (5AA),

32.3.d

in subsection (5B)(b) for “7” substitute  “14” , and

32.3.e

omit subsection (5C).

32.4

In section 68—

32.4.a

in subsection (3) for “, (4A), (4AA) or (4B)” substitute  “or (4A)” ,

32.4.b

in subsection (4A) for “ 7 ” (in the closing words) substitute  “14” ,

32.4.c

omit subsection (4AA), and

32.4.d

omit subsection (4B).

32.5

In section 170—

32.5.a

in subsection (3) for “, (4AA), (4B) or (4C)” substitute  “or (4B)” ,

32.5.b

in subsection (4A) for “ 7 ” (in the closing words) substitute  “14” ,

32.5.c

omit subsection (4AA),

32.5.d

in subsection (4B)(b) for “7” substitute  “14” , and

32.5.e

omit subsection (4C).

32.6

Subject to subsection  (7) , the amendments made by this section have effect
in relation to offences committed on or after the day on which this Act is
passed.

32.7

The amendment made to section 14F of HODA 1979 so far as applying to a part of
the United Kingdom other than Northern Ireland—

32.7.a

comes into force at the same time as paragraph 9 of Schedule 11 to FA 2020
(which inserts a new section 14F into HODA 1979) comes into force in its
application to that part of the United Kingdom, and

32.7.b

has effect in relation to offences committed on or after the day on which it
comes into force.

##### Disqualification of directors etc promoting tax avoidance schemes

33

Schedule 13  makes provision for HMRC to apply for disqualification orders
under the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 in connection with the
promotion of tax avoidance schemes.

##### Promoters of tax avoidance: failure to comply with stop notice etc

34

34.1

In FA 2014, before section 278 (but after the italic heading) insert—

########### Offences relating to stop notices

34.1.277A

34.1.277A.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a duty imposed
under section 236B(1) is guilty of an offence.

34.1.277A.2

The recipient of a stop notice (“ R ”) is guilty of an offence if—

34.1.277A.2.a

R fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a duty imposed under
section 236B(3)(a), (4)(a) or (5)(a) to give a copy of the notice to another
person (“ P ”),

34.1.277A.2.b

P subsequently fails to comply with a duty imposed under section 236B(1) in
relation to the notice, and

34.1.277A.2.c

at the time of P’s failure the stop notice continues to have effect in
relation to R.

34.1.277A.3

For the purposes of this section—

34.1.277A.3.a

an insufficiency of funds is not a reasonable excuse unless attributable to
events outside the person's control,

34.1.277A.3.b

if the person relies on any other person to do anything, that is not a
reasonable excuse unless the first person took reasonable care to avoid the
failure,

34.1.277A.3.c

if the person had a reasonable excuse for the failure but the excuse has
ceased, the person is to be treated as having continued to have the excuse if
the failure is remedied without unreasonable delay after the excuse ceased,
and

34.1.277A.3.d

reliance on legal advice is to be taken automatically not to constitute a
reasonable excuse where the person is a monitored promoter if either—

34.1.277A.3.d.i

the advice was not based on a full and accurate description of the facts, or

34.1.277A.3.d.ii

the conclusions in the advice that the person relied on were unreasonable.

########### Liability for offences under 

34.1.277B

34.1.277B.1

If an offence under  section 277A  is committed by a body corporate or a
partnership and—

34.1.277B.1.a

is committed with the consent or connivance of a relevant person in relation
to the body or partnership, or

34.1.277B.1.b

is attributable to neglect on the part of such a person,

the person (as well as the body or partnership) commits the offence and is
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

34.1.277B.2

A “relevant person” is—

34.1.277B.2.a

in relation to a body corporate other than one whose affairs are managed by
its members—

34.1.277B.2.a.i

a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body, or a
person purporting to act in such a capacity, or

34.1.277B.2.a.ii

a shadow director within the meaning of section 251 of the Companies Act 2006;

34.1.277B.2.b

in relation to a limited liability partnership or other body corporate whose
affairs are managed by its members—

34.1.277B.2.b.i

a member who exercises functions of management with respect to it, or a person
purporting to act in such a capacity, or

34.1.277B.2.b.ii

in the case of a limited liability partnership, a shadow member within the
meaning of regulation 2 of the Limited Liability Partnerships Regulations 2001
( S.I. 2001/1090 );

34.1.277B.2.c

in relation to a partnership, a partner or a person purporting to act in such
a capacity.

34.2

In section 280(1) of FA 2014 (penalties for offences), after “section” insert
“ 277A ,” .

34.3

The offence under section  277A (1) of FA 2014 (as inserted by subsection (1))
applies in relation to a failure to comply that occurs on or after the date on
which this Act is passed.

34.4

The offence under section  277A (2) of FA 2014 (as inserted by subsection (1))
applies in relation to duties under section 236B(3)(a), (4)(a) or (5)(a)
arising on or after the date on which this Act is passed.

34.5

In section 236B(7) of FA 2014 (effect of stop notices), for “(5)(b)”
substitute  “(5)(a)” .

##### Construction industry scheme: gross payment status

35

35.1

FA 2004 is amended as follows.

35.2

In section 66 (cancellation of registration for gross payment)—

35.2.a

in subsection (1)—

35.2.a.i

in paragraph (b), after “sub-contractor)” insert  “in connection with an
obligation arising” ;

35.2.a.ii

in paragraph (c), for “any such provision” substitute  “an obligation arising
under or in connection with any provision of this Chapter or of regulations
made under it” .

35.2.b

in subsection (3)—

35.2.b.i

for paragraph (b) substitute—

35.2.b.i.b

has fraudulently made an incorrect return or has fraudulently provided
incorrect information (whether as a contractor or a sub-contractor) in
connection with an obligation—

35.2.b.i.b.i

arising under any provision of this Chapter or of regulations made under it;

35.2.b.i.b.ii

arising under any provision of PAYE regulations;

35.2.b.i.b.iii

to submit a self-assessment return;

35.2.b.i.b.iv

arising under any provision of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 or of regulations
made under it, or

;

35.2.b.ii

in paragraph (c), for “any such provision” substitute  “an obligation arising
under or in connection with any provision of this Chapter or of regulations
made under it” .

35.3

In Schedule 11 (conditions for registration for gross payment)—

35.3.a

in paragraph 4, in sub-paragraph (1)(a)—

35.3.a.i

in sub-paragraph (iii), for “the PAYE Regulations ( SI 2003/2682 )” substitute
“PAYE regulations” ;

35.3.a.ii

at the end insert—

35.3.a.ii.v

to account for or pay VAT as required by or under the Value Added Tax Act
1994, and

;

35.3.b

in paragraph 8, in sub-paragraph (1)(a)—

35.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (iii), for “the PAYE Regulations ( SI 2003/2682 )” substitute
“PAYE regulations” ;

35.3.b.ii

at the end insert—

35.3.b.ii.v

to account for or pay VAT as required by or under the Value Added Tax Act
1994, and

;

35.3.c

in paragraph 12, in sub-paragraph (1)(a)—

35.3.c.i

in sub-paragraph (iii), for “the PAYE Regulations ( SI 2003/2682 )” substitute
“PAYE regulations” ;

35.3.c.ii

at the end insert—

35.3.c.ii.v

to account for or pay VAT as required by or under the Value Added Tax Act
1994, and

.

35.4

The amendments in this section have effect in relation to—

35.4.a

applications for gross payment status made on or after 6 April 2024, and

35.4.b

registrations for gross payment status which are in effect on or after 6 April
2024 (but see  subsection (5) ).

35.5

When making a determination under section 66(1)(a) of FA 2004 (cancellation of
registration for gross payment) in relation to a person registered for gross
payment status before 6 April 2024, any failure by that person before 6 April
2024 to comply with an obligation to account for or pay VAT must be
disregarded (notwithstanding the amendments made by  subsection (3) ).

#### Administration

##### Additional information to be contained in returns under TMA 1970 etc

36

36.1

In section 8 of TMA 1970 (personal return), after subsection (1H) insert—

36.1.1I

Where a person is required to make and deliver a return under this section,
the person may be required by an officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
to include in the return any information that is specified or described in
regulations made by the Commissioners (whether or not the information is
relevant for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1)).

36.1.1J

The Commissioners may only specify or describe information in regulations
under  subsection (1I)  if the Commissioners consider that the information is
relevant for the purpose of the collection and management of any of the taxes
listed in section 1.

36.1.1K

A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed on them by virtue of
subsection (1I)  is liable to a penalty of £60.

36.1.1L

Regulations under  subsection (1I)  may make different provision for different
purposes.

36.2

In section 8A of TMA 1970 (trustee’s return), after subsection (1F) insert—

36.2.1G

Where a person is required to make and deliver a return under this section,
the person may be required by an officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
to include in the return any information that is specified or described in
regulations made by the Commissioners (whether or not the information is
relevant for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1)).

36.2.1H

The Commissioners may only specify or describe information in regulations
under  subsection (1G)  if the Commissioners consider that the information is
relevant for the purpose of the collection and management of any of the taxes
listed in section 1.

36.2.1I

A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed on them by virtue of
subsection (1G)  is liable to a penalty of £60.

36.2.1J

Regulations under  subsection (1G)  may make different provision for different
purposes.

36.3

In section 12AA of TMA 1970 (partnership return), after subsection (5E)
insert—

36.3.5F

Where a person is required to make and deliver a return under this section,
the person may be required by an officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
to include in the return any information that is specified or described in
regulations made by the Commissioners (whether or not the information is
relevant for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1)).

36.3.5G

The Commissioners may only specify or describe information in regulations
under  subsection (5F)  if the Commissioners consider that the information is
relevant for the purpose of the collection and management of any of the taxes
listed in section 1.

36.3.5H

A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed on them by virtue of
subsection (5F)  is liable to a penalty of £60.

36.3.5I

Regulations under  subsection (5F)  may make different provision for different
purposes.

36.4

In Chapter 6 of Part 11 of ITEPA 2003 (pay as you earn), before section 708
insert—

########### Provision of additional information to His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs

36.4.707A

36.4.707A.1

PAYE regulations may include provision requiring an employer to provide any
information that is specified or described in regulations made by the
Commissioners (whether or not that information is also relevant to the
assessment, charge, collection and recovery of income tax in respect of PAYE
income).

36.4.707A.2

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may only specify or
describe information in regulations under  subsection (1)  if the
Commissioners consider that the information is relevant for the purpose of the
collection and management of any of the taxes listed in section 1 of TMA 1970.

36.5

The amendments made by this section have effect for the tax year 2025-26 and
subsequent tax years.

##### Commencement of rules imposing penalties for failure to make returns etc

37

37.1

Regulations made by the Treasury under any of the powers in sections 116, 117
or 118 of FA 2021 may provide for any provision of Schedules 24 to 27 to that
Act (penalties for failure to make returns etc or pay tax) to come into force
for the purposes of failures by eligible volunteers.

37.2

An eligible volunteer is an individual in respect of whom an election has
effect under the regulations.

37.3

The regulations may in particular—

37.3.a

provide for an election to take effect only if accepted by an officer of
Revenue and Customs;

37.3.b

provide that an election may not be revoked by the individual;

37.3.c

provide that an election ceases to have effect upon an officer of Revenue and
Customs giving notice to the individual;

37.3.d

make provision about the consequences of an election ceasing to have effect.

37.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (3) (d)  includes
provision for an election that ceases to have effect to be treated as never
having had effect, other than for the purposes of any failure in respect of
which His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs have already assessed a penalty.

#### Final

##### Abbreviations used in Act

38

In this Act the following abbreviations are references to the following Acts—

    BGDA 1981 Betting and Gaming Duties Act 1981 CAA 2001 Capital Allowances
Act 2001 CEMA 1979 Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 CTA 2009 Corporation
Tax Act 2009 CTA 2010 Corporation Tax Act 2010 FA followed by a year Finance
Act of that year F(No.2)A followed by a year Finance (No.2) Act of that year
HODA 1979 Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act 1979 ICTA Income and Corporation Taxes
Act 1988 ITA 2007 Income Tax Act 2007 ITEPA 2003 Income Tax (Earnings and
Pensions) Act 2003 ITTOIA 2005 Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005
TCGA 1992 Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 TCTA 2018 Taxation (Cross-
border Trade) Act 2018 TIOPA 2010 Taxation (International and Other
Provisions) Act 2010 TMA 1970 Taxes Management Act 1970 TPDA 1979 Tobacco
Products Duty Act 1979 VERA 1994 Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994

##### Short title

39

This Act may be cited as the Finance Act 2024.

## Schedules

Research and development

Section  2

##### Main amendments of CTA 2009

1

CTA 2009 is amended as follows.

2

In Part 3, omit Chapter 6A (R&D expenditure credit).

3

In the heading of Part 13, omit “Additional relief for”.

4

4.1

Chapter 1 of Part 13 is amended as follows.

4.2

For section 1039 (overview of Part) substitute—

########### Overview of Part

4.2.1039

4.2.1039.1

This Part provides relief for companies that invest in research and
development.

4.2.1039.2

Chapter  1A  makes relief available in the form of a credit in respect of
expenditure on research and development, which becomes payable in certain
circumstances.

4.2.1039.3

Chapter 2 makes alternative relief available, in the form of—

4.2.1039.3.a

an additional deduction in calculating trading profits, and

4.2.1039.3.b

a payable credit,

to small or medium-sized enterprises that invest heavily in research and
development and do not make associated trading profits.

4.2.1039.4

Chapter 8 limits the reliefs provided by Chapters  1A  and 2.

4.2.1039.5

Chapter 9 contains definitions and other supplementary provision.

4.3

For section 1040 (relief to be available under more than one Chapter of Part
13) substitute—

########### No overlapping claims under Chapters 

4.3.1040

A company is not entitled to relief under Chapter 2 in respect of expenditure
if it is entitled to, and claims, relief under Chapter  1A  in respect of that
expenditure.

4.4

Omit section 1040A (which refers to the existing R&D expenditure credit).

5

After Chapter 1 of Part 13 insert—

######### R&D expenditure credit

########## Introductory

########### Overview of Chapter

5.1042A

5.1042A.1

This Chapter provides an entitlement to a credit (called an “R&D expenditure
credit”) in respect of certain expenditure on research and development.

5.1042A.2

Section  1042B  and  1042C  make the basic provision setting out what the
entitlement is and how it is to be realised.

5.1042A.3

Sections  1042D  to  1042F  describe the expenditure by reference to which the
entitlement arises.

5.1042A.4

Section  1042G  sets the percentage of that expenditure that is translated
into the credit.

5.1042A.5

Sections  1042H  to  1042N  make provision about what happens when a company
obtains the credit (in particular, about how the credit is to be accounted for
and applied or paid).

5.1042A.6

Section  1042O  makes provision about how the expenditure credit operates in
the context of a basic life assurance and general annuity business carried on
by an insurance company.

5.1042A.7

This Chapter has to be read with Chapter 8, which limits the entitlement given
by this Chapter in various respects.

########## Entitlement and claims

########### Entitlement to credit

5.1042B

5.1042B.1

A company is entitled to an R&D expenditure credit for an accounting period if
it meets conditions A, B and C in this section.

5.1042B.2

Condition A is that the company carries on a trade in the period.

5.1042B.3

Condition B is that the company incurs expenditure that is both—

5.1042B.3.a

allowable as a deduction in calculating for corporation tax purposes the
profits of the trade for the period, and

5.1042B.3.b

qualifying Chapter  1A  expenditure by virtue of section  1042D ,  1042E  or
1042F .

5.1042B.4

Condition C is that the company is not an ineligible company (see section
1142).

5.1042B.5

The amount of the credit is the relevant percentage (see section  1042G ) of
the expenditure that satisfies condition B.

########### Claiming the credit

5.1042C

5.1042C.1

To obtain an R&D expenditure credit the company must make a claim (see Part 9A
of Schedule 18 to the FA 1998).

5.1042C.2

A company may not make the claim (“the RDEC claim”) after the end of the claim
notification period unless—

5.1042C.2.a

the company has made an R&D claim during the period of three years ending with
the last day of the claim notification period,

5.1042C.2.b

the company makes a claim notification in respect of the RDEC claim within the
claim notification period, or

5.1042C.2.c

the accounting period in respect of which the RDEC claim is made falls within
the same period of account as another accounting period in respect of which
the company has made an R&D claim or a claim notification.

5.1042C.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (a) , ignore any R&D claim for an
accounting period beginning before 1 April 2023 that is included in the
company’s company tax return only by virtue of an amendment made on or after
that date (see paragraph 83B(2) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998).

########## Qualifying expenditure

########### Qualifying expenditure: in-house R&D

5.1042D

5.1042D.1

Expenditure of a company is qualifying Chapter  1A  expenditure if it meets
each of conditions A to D in this section.

5.1042D.2

Condition A is that the expenditure is attributable to relevant research and
development undertaken by the company itself.

5.1042D.3

Condition B is that the expenditure is—

5.1042D.3.a

incurred on staffing costs (see section 1123),

5.1042D.3.b

incurred on software, data licences, cloud computing services or consumable
items (see section 1125),

5.1042D.3.c

qualifying expenditure on externally provided workers (see section 1127), or

5.1042D.3.d

incurred on relevant payments to the subjects of a clinical trial (see section
1140).

5.1042D.4

Condition C is that the research and development is not contracted out to the
company (see section  1133 ).

5.1042D.5

Condition D is that the expenditure is not attributable to an exempt foreign
permanent establishment (see section  1138B ).

5.1042D.6

See sections 1124, 1126 to 1126B and 1132 for provision about when expenditure
within subsection  (3) (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  is attributable to relevant
research and development.

########### Qualifying expenditure: payments for contracted out R&D

5.1042E

5.1042E.1

Expenditure of a company is qualifying Chapter  1A  expenditure if it meets
each of conditions A to D in this section.

5.1042E.2

Condition A is that the expenditure is attributable to relevant research and
development contracted out by the company (see section  1133 ).

5.1042E.3

Condition B is that the research and development is not also contracted out to
the company (see section  1133 ).

5.1042E.4

Condition C is that the expenditure is incurred in making the qualifying
element of a contractor payment (see sections 1133 to 1136).

5.1042E.5

Condition D is that the expenditure is not attributable to an exempt foreign
permanent establishment (see section  1138B ).

5.1042E.6

See sections 1124, 1126 to 1126B and 1132 for provision about when particular
kinds of expenditure are attributable to relevant research and development.

########### Qualifying expenditure: activity as contractor for irrelievable client

5.1042F

5.1042F.1

Expenditure of a company is qualifying Chapter  1A  expenditure if it meets
conditions A, B and C in this section.

5.1042F.2

Condition A is that the expenditure is attributable to relevant research and
development contracted out to the company (see section  1133 ).

5.1042F.3

Condition B is that subsection  (4)  is satisfied by each person by whom the
research and development is contracted out to the company.

5.1042F.4

A person satisfies this subsection if—

5.1042F.4.a

the person is an ineligible company (see section 1142), or

5.1042F.4.b

the person is not, in relation to the contracting out of the research and
development by that person, acting in the course of a trade, profession or
vocation within the charge to tax.

5.1042F.5

Condition C is that the expenditure would, but for the fact that the research
and development is contracted out to the company, be qualifying Chapter  1A
expenditure by virtue of section  1042D  or  1042E .

########## Rate of credit

########### Percentage of qualifying expenditure translated into credit

5.1042G

5.1042G.1

The relevant percentage for the purposes of section  1042B (5)  is—

5.1042G.1.a

49%, in the case of a ring fence trade within the meaning given by section 277
of CTA 2010, or

5.1042G.1.b

20%, in any other case.

5.1042G.2

The Treasury may by regulations replace the percentage for the time being
specified in subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b)  with a different percentage.

########## Treatment of credit: main provisions

########### Expenditure credit to count as taxable receipt

5.1042H

If a company is entitled to, and claims, an R&D expenditure credit for an
accounting period, it must bring the amount of the credit into account as a
receipt in calculating for corporation tax purposes the profits for the period
of the trade concerned.

########### Redemption of value of expenditure credit

5.1042I

If a company is entitled to, and claims, an R&D expenditure credit for an
accounting period, the credit is to be dealt with as follows.

Step 1 The amount of the credit is to be applied in discharging any liability
of the company to pay corporation tax for the accounting period. Step 2 If
there is a notional tax deduction (see section  1042K ), it is to be applied
to any amount remaining after step 1. Step 3 If the amount remaining after
step 2 exceeds the cap by reference to the company’s PAYE and NIC liabilities
for the accounting period (see section  1112B ), the excess is to be deducted.
Step 4 Any amount remaining after step 3 is to be applied in discharging any
liability of the company to pay corporation tax for any other accounting
period. Step 5 If the company is a member of a group, it may surrender the
whole or part of any amount remaining after step 4 to any other member of the
group (as to which see section  1042N ). Step 6 Any amount remaining after
step 5 is to be applied in discharging any other liability of the company to
pay a sum to the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs— under or
by virtue of an enactment, or under an agreement made in connection with any
person’s liability to make a payment to the Commissioners under or by virtue
of an enactment. Step 7 Any amount remaining after step 6 is (subject to
sections  1112F  and  1112H ) to be paid to the company by an officer of
Revenue and Customs.

########### Treatment of deduction to comply with PAYE and NIC limit

5.1042J

5.1042J.1

This section applies if an amount is deducted under step 3 in section  1042I .

5.1042J.2

The amount is to be added to the amount of R&D expenditure credit to which the
company is entitled for its next accounting period (including where that
amount would otherwise be nil).

########## Notional tax deduction

########### Amount of notional tax deduction

5.1042K

5.1042K.1

This section determines the amount of the notional tax deduction for the
purposes of step 2 in section  1042I .

5.1042K.2

The amount of the deduction is the amount (if any) by which the amount
remaining after step 1 in section  1042I  exceeds the amount produced by
deducting the notional tax charge from the initial amount of the expenditure
credit (that is, its amount before the application of that step).

5.1042K.3

Subsections  (4)  and  (5)  apply if the trade concerned is not a ring fence
trade.

5.1042K.4

The notional tax charge is the amount of corporation tax that would be
chargeable on the initial amount of the expenditure credit if it were an
amount of profits for the accounting period on which corporation tax was
chargeable at the applicable rate.

5.1042K.5

The applicable rate is—

5.1042K.5.a

the main rate, if the company has profits for the accounting period that—

5.1042K.5.a.i

are chargeable to corporation tax at the main rate, and

5.1042K.5.a.ii

would be so even if they did not include any amount brought into account under
section  1042H ;

5.1042K.5.b

in any other case, the standard small profits rate.

5.1042K.6

Subsections  (7)  and  (8)  apply if the trade concerned is a ring fence
trade.

5.1042K.7

The notional tax charge is the sum of—

5.1042K.7.a

the amount of corporation tax that would be chargeable on the initial amount
of the expenditure credit if it were an amount of ring fence profits for the
accounting period on which corporation tax was chargeable at the applicable
rate, and

5.1042K.7.b

the amount of the supplementary charge that would be chargeable on the initial
amount of the expenditure credit if it were an amount of adjusted ring fence
profits for the accounting period (see Chapters 6 to 9 of Part 8 of CTA 2010).

5.1042K.8

The applicable rate is—

5.1042K.8.a

the main ring fence profits rate, if the company has profits for the
accounting period that—

5.1042K.8.a.i

are chargeable to corporation tax at the main ring fence profits rate, and

5.1042K.8.a.ii

would be so even if they did not include any amount brought into account under
section  1042H ;

5.1042K.8.b

in any other case, the small ring fence profits rate.

5.1042K.9

For the purposes of this section, the initial amount of an expenditure credit
is to be treated as excluding any amount added under section  1042J .

5.1042K.10

In this section—

“ adjusted ring fence profits ” has the meaning given by section 330(2) of CTA
2010; “ main rate ” means the rate referred to in section 3(1) of CTA 2010; “
main ring fence profits rate ” means the rate referred to in section 279A(1)
of CTA 2010; “ ring fence profits ” has the meaning given by section 276 of
CTA 2010; “ ring fence trade ” has the meaning given by section 277 of CTA
2010; “ small ring fence profits rate ” means the rate referred to in section
279A(3) of CTA 2010; “ standard small profits rate ” means the rate referred
to in section 18A(1) of CTA 2010.

########### Treatment of notional tax deduction

5.1042L

5.1042L.1

This section applies if an amount is deducted under step 2 in section  1042I .

5.1042L.2

If the company is a member of a group, it may, in respect of the accounting
period in which the expenditure credit arises, surrender the whole or part of
the deducted amount to any other member of the group (as to which see section
1042N ).

5.1042L.3

To the extent that the deducted amount is not surrendered under subsection
(2) , it is to be applied in discharging any liability of the company to pay
corporation tax for any subsequent accounting period.

########### Priority of discharge

5.1042M

5.1042M.1

An amount within subsection  (2)  is to be applied as described in that
subsection before any amount within subsection  (3)  is applied as described
in that subsection.

5.1042M.2

An amount is within this subsection if it is to be applied under—

5.1042M.2.a

section  1042L (3) , or

5.1042M.2.b

section  1042N (3)  as it applies in relation to an amount surrendered under
section  1042L (2) ,

in discharging the liability of a company to pay corporation tax for an
accounting period.

5.1042M.3

An amount is within this subsection if it is to be (or would but for
subsection  (1)  be) applied under—

5.1042M.3.a

step 4 in section  1042I , or

5.1042M.3.b

section  1042N (3)  as it applies in relation to an amount surrendered under
step 5 in section  1042I ,

in discharging the same liability as an amount within subsection  (2) .

########## Intra-group surrenders

########### Amounts surrendered to other group companies

5.1042N

5.1042N.1

Subsection  (3)  applies if an amount of expenditure credit is surrendered by
the qualifying company to another member of its group under step 5 in section
1042I  or under section  1042L (2) .

5.1042N.2

For the purposes of that subsection—

5.1042N.2.a

the accounting period in respect of which the surrender is made is “the
surrender AP”;

5.1042N.2.b

an accounting period of the other group member is an “overlapping AP” if it
overlaps with the surrender AP to any extent.

5.1042N.3

The surrendered amount is to be dealt with as follows.

Step 1 Select an overlapping AP. Step 2 Calculate the proportion of the
overlapping AP that overlaps with the surrender AP, and apply that proportion
to the amount of corporation tax payable by the other group member for that
overlapping AP. Step 3 Calculate the proportion of the surrender AP that
overlaps with the overlapping AP, and apply that proportion to the surrendered
amount. Step 4 The amount given by step 3 is to be applied in discharging the
liability of the other group member to pay the corporation tax mentioned in
step 2, up to the amount given by that step. Step 5 Select another overlapping
AP, if there is one, and repeat steps 2 to 4. Step 6 If any of the surrendered
amount remains after steps 2 to 4 have been taken in relation to each
overlapping AP, the remainder is to be treated for the purposes of section
1042I  or (as the case may be) section  1042L (2)  as if it had not been
surrendered as mentioned in subsection  (1) .

5.1042N.4

A surrender to which subsection  (3)  applies is not to be—

5.1042N.4.a

taken into account in determining, for corporation tax purposes, the profits
or losses of the qualifying company or the other group member, or

5.1042N.4.b

regarded for corporation tax purposes as the making of a distribution.

########## Basic life assurance and general annuity businesses

########### Adaptation of entitlement for certain insurance businesses

5.1042O

5.1042O.1

This section applies if—

5.1042O.1.a

for an accounting period, an insurance company is charged to tax in respect of
its basic life assurance and general annuity business in accordance with the
I-E rules, and

5.1042O.1.b

the calculation of the company’s charge to tax for the period in respect of
that business does not involve the calculation of any BLAGAB trade profit or
loss of the company.

5.1042O.2

The reference in section  1042B (3) (a)  to expenditure that is allowable as a
deduction in calculating the profits of the trade for an accounting period is
to be read as a reference to expenditure that would be so allowable if the
company were to calculate its BLAGAB trade profit or loss for the period.

5.1042O.3

The reference in section  1042H  to calculating the profits of the trade is to
be read as a reference to calculating the I-E profit of the basic life
assurance and general annuity business carried on by the company.

5.1042O.4

Any receipt to be brought into account by virtue of this section is to be
treated for the purposes of section 92 of FA 2012 (certain BLAGAB trading
receipts to count as deemed I-E receipts) as if it had been taken into account
in calculating the company’s BLAGAB trade profit or loss for the period.

5.1042O.5

In this section, “BLAGAB trade profit” and “BLAGAB trade loss” have the
meanings given by section 136 of FA 2012.

6

6.1

Chapter 2 of Part 13 (relief for SMEs on the cost of R&D) is amended as
follows.

6.2

For the heading substitute  “Relief for loss-making, R&D-intensive SMEs” .

6.3

For section 1043 (overview of Chapter) substitute—

########### Overview of Chapter

6.3.1043

6.3.1043.1

This Chapter provides relief for companies that are small or medium-sized
enterprises, invest heavily in research and development, and do not make
associated trading profits.

6.3.1043.2

Section 1044 provides relief in the form of an additional deduction where the
investment is made in the course of a loss-making trade.

6.3.1043.3

Section 1045 provides relief in the form of a deemed trading loss where the
investment is made the course of activities that do not yet amount to the
carrying on of a trade.

6.3.1043.4

Section  1045ZA  specifies the intensity of spending on research and
development needed for a company to qualify for relief under section 1044 or
1045.

6.3.1043.5

Sections 1047 and 1048 make provision about the procedure for claiming, and
the effect of, relief under section 1045.

6.3.1043.6

Section 1049 restricts consortium relief where relief under section 1044 or
1045 is claimed.

6.3.1043.7

Sections 1051 to 1053 describe the expenditure by reference to which the
entitlement to relief under section 1044 or 1045 arises.

6.3.1043.8

Sections 1054 to 1062 provide further relief in the form of a payable credit
(called an “R&D tax credit”) in respect of trading losses increased or
generated by relief under section 1044 or 1045.

6.3.1043.9

Section  1062A  excludes certain insurance companies.

6.3.1043.10

This Chapter has to be read with Chapter 8, which limits the entitlements
given by this Chapter in various respects.

6.4

In section 1044 (additional deduction for trading companies)—

6.4.a

in subsection (1), for “D” substitute  “F” ;

6.4.b

after subsection (2) insert—

6.4.b.2A

Condition B is that the company—

6.4.b.2A.a

meets the R&D intensity condition in the period, or

6.4.b.2A.b

obtained relief under this Chapter for its most recent prior accounting period
of 12 months’ duration, having met the R&D intensity condition in that period.

;

6.4.c

after subsection (5) insert—

6.4.c.5A

Condition E is that the company makes a loss in the trade in the period.

6.4.c.5B

Condition F is that the company is not an ineligible company (see section
1142).

;

6.4.d

in subsection (6)—

6.4.d.i

at the end of the first sentence insert  “(see Part 9A of Schedule 18 to the
FA 1998, and also sections 1045A and  1112F )” ;

6.4.d.ii

omit the second sentence;

6.4.e

in subsection (7), at the end insert—

The deduction is, in particular, additional to any given under section 87.

;

6.4.f

omit subsection (9).

6.5

In section 1045 (deemed trading loss for non-trading companies)—

6.5.a

in subsection (1), for “conditions A and C” substitute  “each of conditions A
to D” .

6.5.b

after subsection (2) insert—

6.5.b.2A

Condition B is that the company—

6.5.b.2A.a

meets the R&D intensity condition in the period, or

6.5.b.2A.b

obtained relief under this Chapter for its most recent prior accounting period
of 12 months’ duration, having met the R&D intensity condition in that period.

;

6.5.c

after subsection (4) insert—

6.5.c.4A

Condition D is that the company is not an ineligible company (see section
1142).

;

6.5.d

in subsection (5)—

6.5.d.i

at the end of the first sentence insert  “(see section 1047, and also section
1112F )” ;

6.5.d.ii

omit the second sentence;

6.5.e

omit subsection (9).

6.6

After section 1045 insert—

########### R&D intensity condition

6.6.1045ZA

6.6.1045ZA.1

This section determines whether a company meets the R&D intensity condition in
an accounting period for the purposes of sections 1044 and 1045.

6.6.1045ZA.2

If the company is not connected with another company, the company meets the
condition if its relevant R&D expenditure for the period amounts to at least
30% of its total relevant expenditure for the period.

6.6.1045ZA.3

If the company is connected with at least one other company, the company meets
the condition if the connected companies’ relevant R&D expenditure for the
period amounts to at least 30% of the connected companies’ total relevant
expenditure for the period.

6.6.1045ZA.4

In subsection  (3) , “ the connected companies ” refers to the company to
which this section is being applied and each company with which it is
connected; and the references to their expenditure are to the aggregate of
each of their expenditures.

6.6.1045ZA.5

Expenditure forms part of a company’s total relevant expenditure for an
accounting period if—

6.6.1045ZA.5.a

in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice, it is brought into
account in calculating the profits for the period of any trade carried on by
the company,

6.6.1045ZA.5.b

it is expenditure in respect of which the company is, for the period, entitled
to relief under section 1045, or

6.6.1045ZA.5.c

in reliance on section 1308(2) (expenditure brought into account in
determining value of intangible asset allowable as a deduction), it is brought
into account in calculating the company’s profits for the period for
corporation tax purposes.

6.6.1045ZA.6

But—

6.6.1045ZA.6.a

expenditure of a company is to be ignored for the purposes of subsection  (5)
if it consists of a payment, or other transfer of value, to another company
with which the company is connected, and

6.6.1045ZA.6.b

where expenditure forms part of a company's total relevant expenditure by
virtue of subsection  (5) (c) , a deduction brought into account as mentioned
in subsection  (5) (a)  is to be ignored for the purposes of that provision to
the extent that a corresponding deduction for corporation tax purposes is
prevented by section 1308(5).

6.6.1045ZA.7

Expenditure forms part of a company’s relevant R&D expenditure for an
accounting period if—

6.6.1045ZA.7.a

it forms part of the company’s total relevant expenditure for the period, or
would do but for subsection  (6) (a) , and

6.6.1045ZA.7.b

it is expenditure in respect of which the company would, assuming that it met
the R&D intensity condition, be entitled to relief under this Chapter for the
period.

6.6.1045ZA.8

For the purposes of this section in its application to an accounting period, a
company is to be treated as connected with another company if it is connected
with that company on any day within the period.

6.7

Omit section 1046 (relief only available to going concerns).

6.8

In section 1051 (meaning of “ qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure ”), for the
words from “means” to the end substitute  “is such of its expenditure as is
qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure by virtue of section  1052 ,  1053  or  1053A
.”

6.9

For sections 1052 and 1053 (categories of qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure)
substitute—

########### Qualifying expenditure: in-house R&D

6.9.1052

6.9.1052.1

Expenditure of a company is qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure if it meets each
of conditions A to D in this section.

6.9.1052.2

Condition A is that the expenditure is attributable to relevant research and
development undertaken by the company itself.

6.9.1052.3

Condition B is that the expenditure is—

6.9.1052.3.a

incurred on staffing costs (see section 1123),

6.9.1052.3.b

incurred on software, data licences, cloud computing services or consumable
items (see section 1125),

6.9.1052.3.c

qualifying expenditure on externally provided workers (see section 1127), or

6.9.1052.3.d

incurred on relevant payments to the subjects of a clinical trial (see section
1140).

6.9.1052.4

Condition C is that the research and development is not contracted out to the
company (see section  1133 ).

6.9.1052.5

Condition D is that the expenditure is not attributable to an exempt foreign
permanent establishment (see section  1138B ).

6.9.1052.6

See sections 1124, 1126 to 1126B and 1132 for provision about when expenditure
within subsection  (3) (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  is attributable to relevant
research and development.

########### Qualifying expenditure: payments for contracted out R&D

6.9.1053

6.9.1053.1

Expenditure of a company is qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure if it meets each
of conditions A to D in this section.

6.9.1053.2

Condition A is that the expenditure is attributable to relevant research and
development contracted out by the company (see section  1133 ).

6.9.1053.3

Condition B is that the research and development is not also contracted out to
the company (see section  1133 ).

6.9.1053.4

Condition C is that the expenditure is incurred in making the qualifying
element of a contractor payment (see sections 1133 to 1136).

6.9.1053.5

Condition D is that the expenditure is not attributable to an exempt foreign
permanent establishment (see section  1138B ).

6.9.1053.6

See sections 1124, 1126 to 1126B and 1132 for provision about when particular
kinds of expenditure are attributable to relevant research and development.

########### Qualifying expenditure: activity as contractor for irrelievable client

6.9.1053A

6.9.1053A.1

Expenditure of a company is qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure if it meets
conditions A, B and C in this section.

6.9.1053A.2

Condition A is that the expenditure is attributable to relevant research and
development contracted out to the company (see section  1133 ).

6.9.1053A.3

Condition B is that subsection  (4)  is satisfied by each person by whom the
research and development is contracted out to the company.

6.9.1053A.4

A person satisfies this subsection if—

6.9.1053A.4.a

the person is an ineligible company (see section 1142), or

6.9.1053A.4.b

the person is not, in relation to the contracting out of the research and
development by that person, acting in the course of a trade, profession or
vocation within the charge to tax.

6.9.1053A.5

Condition C is that the expenditure would, but for the fact that the research
and development is contracted out to the company, be qualifying Chapter 2
expenditure by virtue of section  1052  or  1053 .

6.10

In section 1054 (entitlement to R&D tax credit)—

6.10.a

in subsection (2)—

6.10.a.i

at the end of the first sentence insert  “(see Part 9A of Schedule 18 to the
FA 1998, and also sections 1054A and  1112F )” ;

6.10.a.ii

omit the second sentence;

6.10.b

in subsection (4), for “1060” substitute  “ 1112H ” ;

6.10.c

omit subsection (5).

6.11

Omit section 1057 (R&D tax credit only available to going concerns).

6.12

In section 1058 (amount of R&D tax credit)—

6.12.a

in subsection (1)—

6.12.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “10%” substitute  “14.5%” ;

6.12.a.ii

for paragraph (aa) substitute—

6.12.a.ii.aa

the amount of the cap by reference to the company’s PAYE and NIC liabilities
for the accounting period (see section  1112B ).

;

6.12.b

omit subsections (1A) to (1C);

6.12.c

in subsection (2), omit paragraphs (b) and (c);

6.12.d

omit subsection (3).

6.13

Omit sections 1058A to 1058D (provision in relation to PAYE and NIC
liabilities).

6.14

In section 1060 (payment of R&D tax credit)—

6.14.a

for the heading substitute  “Use of credit to pay corporation tax” ;

6.14.b

omit subsections (4) to (7).

6.15

After section 1062 insert—

########### Insurance company to be treated as large company

6.15.1062A

An insurance company that carries on life assurance business in an accounting
period is not to be treated for the purposes of this Chapter as a small or
medium-sized enterprise in relation to that period.

7

Omit Chapter 6 of Part 13 (further provision about Chapters 2 to 5).

8

For Chapter 8 of Part 13 (cap on aid for R&D) substitute—

######### Restrictions on relief under this Part

########## Introductory

########### Overview of Chapter

8.1112A

8.1112A.1

This Chapter limits the entitlements given by Chapters  1A  and 2.

8.1112A.2

Sections  1112B  to  1112E  provide for the amount of R&D expenditure credit
or R&D tax credit payable to a company to be capped by reference to certain
liabilities of the company in connection with PAYE and national insurance,
except in certain cases.

8.1112A.3

Sections  1112F  and  1112G  provide that payment of an R&D expenditure
credit, and relief under Chapter 2, are available only to companies that are
going concerns.

8.1112A.4

Section  1112H  provides that an R&D expenditure credit or R&D tax credit does
not have to be paid if a tax enquiry into the company is open or the company
has outstanding PAYE or national insurance liabilities.

8.1112A.5

Section  1112I  provides for transactions aimed at obtaining or increasing an
entitlement under Chapter  1A  or 2 not to succeed in doing so.

8.1112A.6

Section  1112J  allows the Treasury to place additional limits on the amount
of relief available under Chapter 2.

########## PAYE and NIC liabilities

########### Cap by reference to PAYE and NIC liabilities

8.1112B

8.1112B.1

This section determines, for the purposes of sections  1042I  and 1058(1), the
amount of the cap by reference to a company’s PAYE and NIC liabilities for an
accounting period.

But see section  1112E  (which provides for there to be no cap in certain
cases).

8.1112B.2

The amount of the cap is the sum of—

8.1112B.2.a

£20,000, and

8.1112B.2.b

the amount produced by multiplying by three (“the multiplier”) the amount of
the company’s relevant PAYE and NIC liabilities for payment periods ending in
the accounting period (see section  1112C ).

8.1112B.3

If the accounting period is less than 12 months, the amount specified in
subsection  (2) (a)  is to be proportionately reduced.

8.1112B.4

If the company claims relief under both Chapters  1A  and 2 for the period,
the amount of the cap for the purposes of section  1042I  is to be reduced by
the amount of any R&D tax credit obtained by the company under Chapter 2.

8.1112B.5

The Treasury may by regulations—

8.1112B.5.a

replace the amount for the time being specified in subsection  (2) (a)  with a
different amount;

8.1112B.5.b

replace the multiplier for the time being specified in subsection  (2) (b)
with a different multiplier.

########### Calculation of relevant PAYE and NIC liabilities

8.1112C

8.1112C.1

This section determines the amount of a company’s relevant PAYE and NIC
liabilities for a payment period for the purposes of section  1112B .

8.1112C.2

The amount is to be calculated as follows.

Step 1 Take the total amount of the company’s PAYE and NIC liabilities for the
payment period (see section  1112D ). Step 2 Add any amount produced by the
application of subsection  (4)  or  (6)  to the company as company A. Step 3
Deduct any amount produced by the application of subsection  (4)  or  (6)  to
the company as company B.

8.1112C.3

An amount is produced by subsection  (4)  where—

8.1112C.3.a

two companies (“ company A ” and “ company B ”) are connected,

8.1112C.3.b

company A incurs expenditure in the payment period on externally provided
workers (see sections 1127 and 1128), and

8.1112C.3.c

company B incurs staffing costs in the payment period in providing any of
those workers for company A.

8.1112C.4

The amount produced is the sum of the amounts given, in relation to each
worker in respect of whom subsection  (3) (c)  is satisfied, by—

X × Y Z where— X is the amount of expenditure that— has been incurred on
staffing costs by company B in providing the worker for company A, and forms
part of the total amount of company B’s PAYE and NIC liabilities for the
payment period (see section  1112D ), Y is the amount of company A’s
expenditure on the externally provided worker that has been taken into account
in calculating the amount of company A’s qualifying expenditure for the
payment period, and Z is the total amount of company A’s qualifying
expenditure on the externally provided worker (see section 1127) for the
payment period.

8.1112C.5

Subsection  (6)  produces an amount where—

8.1112C.5.a

two companies (“ company A ” and “ company B ”) are connected,

8.1112C.5.b

company A incurs qualifying contractor expenditure in the payment period, and

8.1112C.5.c

company B incurs staffing costs in the payment period in undertaking on behalf
of company A any of the research and development to which that expenditure is
attributable.

8.1112C.6

That amount is such amount of those staffing costs as forms part of the total
amount of company B’s PAYE and NIC liabilities for the payment period (see
section  1112D ).

8.1112C.7

In this section as it applies for the purposes of section  1042I —

“ qualifying expenditure ” (except in the expression “ qualifying expenditure
on the externally provided worker ”) means expenditure that is qualifying
Chapter  1A  expenditure by virtue of section  1042D ,  1042E  or  1042F ; “
qualifying contractor expenditure ” means expenditure that is qualifying
Chapter  1A  expenditure by virtue of— section  1042E , or section  1042F  as
it applies by reference to section  1042E .

8.1112C.8

In this section as it applies for the purposes of section 1058(1)—

“ qualifying expenditure ” (except in the expression “ qualifying expenditure
on the externally provided worker ”) means qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure
(see section 1051); “ qualifying contractor expenditure ” means qualifying
expenditure that is qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure by virtue of— section
1053 , or section  1053A  as it applies by reference to section  1053 .

########### Total PAYE and NIC liabilities

8.1112D

8.1112D.1

For the purposes of section  1112C , the total amount of a company’s PAYE and
NIC liabilities for a payment period is the sum of amount A and amount B.

8.1112D.2

Amount A is the total amount of income tax for which the company is required
to account to an officer of Revenue and Customs under PAYE regulations for the
period.

8.1112D.3

In calculating amount A, any deduction the company is authorised to make in
respect of child tax credit or working tax credit is to be disregarded.

8.1112D.4

Amount B is the total amount of Class 1 national insurance contributions for
which the company is required to account to an officer of Revenue and Customs
for the accounting period.

8.1112D.5

In calculating amount B, any deduction the company is authorised to make in
respect of any of the following is to be disregarded—

8.1112D.5.a

statutory maternity pay,

8.1112D.5.b

statutory adoption pay,

8.1112D.5.c

statutory paternity pay,

8.1112D.5.d

statutory shared parental pay,

8.1112D.5.e

statutory parental bereavement pay;

8.1112D.5.f

child tax credit, or

8.1112D.5.g

working tax credit.

8.1112D.6

Subsection  (7)  applies if—

8.1112D.6.a

in determining under section  1112C  the amount of a company’s relevant PAYE
and NIC liabilities for a payment period, it is necessary to determine the
total amount of another company’s PAYE and NIC liabilities for that period,
and

8.1112D.6.b

that period falls within, but is shorter than, a payment period of that other
company.

8.1112D.7

The amount produced by subsection  (1)  in its application to that other
company is to be proportionately reduced.

########### Exception for companies creating or managing intellectual property

8.1112E

8.1112E.1

There is no cap by reference to a company’s PAYE and NIC liabilities for an
accounting period if the company meets conditions A and B.

8.1112E.2

A company meets condition A for an accounting period if, during the period,
the company is engaged in—

8.1112E.2.a

taking, or preparing to take, steps in order that relevant intellectual
property will be created by it,

8.1112E.2.b

creating relevant intellectual property, or

8.1112E.2.c

performing a significant amount of management activity in relation to relevant
intellectual property it holds.

8.1112E.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) —

8.1112E.3.a

a company is only engaged in an activity mentioned in paragraph  (a) ,  (b)
or  (c)  of subsection  (2)  if the activity is wholly or mainly undertaken by
employees of the company;

8.1112E.3.b

intellectual property is “relevant” intellectual property in relation to a
company if the whole or the greater part (in terms of value) of it is created
by the company;

8.1112E.3.c

intellectual property is created by a company if it is created in
circumstances in which the right to exploit it vests in the company (whether
alone or jointly with others).

8.1112E.4

For the purposes of this section—

“ intellectual property ” means— any patent, trade mark, registered design,
copyright, design right or plant breeder’s right, any rights under the law of
a country or territory outside the United Kingdom which correspond or are
similar to those falling within paragraph (a), or any information or technique
not protected by a right within paragraph (a) or (b) but having industrial,
commercial or other economic value; “ management activity ”, in relation to
intellectual property, means formulating plans and making decisions in
relation to the development or exploitation of the intellectual property.

8.1112E.5

A company meets condition B for an accounting period if the amount (if any)
given by subsection  (6)  does not exceed 15% of the company’s qualifying
expenditure for the period.

8.1112E.6

The amount given by this subsection is the sum of the following incurred by
the company in the period—

8.1112E.6.a

qualifying expenditure on externally provided workers (see section 1127),
where the company, the staff provider and (if different) the staff controller
(or staff controllers)—

8.1112E.6.a.i

are all connected, or

8.1112E.6.a.ii

have jointly elected (under section 1130) that section 1129 is to apply to
them as if they were all connected;

8.1112E.6.b

qualifying contractor expenditure, where the company and the contractor—

8.1112E.6.b.i

are connected, or

8.1112E.6.b.ii

have jointly elected (under section 1135) that section 1134 is to apply to
them as if they were connected.

8.1112E.7

In subsection  (6) (b) , “qualifying contractor expenditure” has whichever of
the meanings given by  1112C (7)  corresponds to the purpose for which this
section is being applied.

8.1112E.8

The Treasury may by regulations replace the percentage for the time being
specified in subsection  (5)  with a different percentage.

########## Going concerns

########### Restriction of credit and relief to companies that are going concerns

8.1112F

8.1112F.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if a company makes a claim under section  1042C
(claims for R&D expenditure credit) at a time when it is not a going concern.

8.1112F.2

No amount is to be paid to the company at step 7 in section  1042I  as a
result of the claim.

8.1112F.3

Subsection  (2)  ceases to apply (and the company accordingly becomes entitled
to be paid) if the company becomes a going concern on or before the last day
on which it would be entitled to amend the claim in accordance with paragraph
83E of Schedule 18 to FA 1998.

8.1112F.4

A company may not make—

8.1112F.4.a

a claim under section 1044 (R&D relief by way of additional deduction),

8.1112F.4.b

an election under section 1045 (R&D relief by way of deemed trading loss), or

8.1112F.4.c

a claim under section 1054 (R&D tax credit),

at a time when it is not a going concern.

8.1112F.5

If a company ceases to be a going concern after making a claim under section
1054, it is treated as if it had not made the claim (and accordingly there is
treated as having been no payment of R&D tax credit to carry interest under
section 826 of ICTA).

8.1112F.6

Subsection  (5)  does not apply so far as the claim relates to an amount that
was paid or applied before the company ceased to be a going concern.

########### Meaning of “going concern”

8.1112G

8.1112G.1

For the purposes of section  1112F , a company is a going concern if—

8.1112G.1.a

its latest published accounts were prepared on a going concern basis, and

8.1112G.1.b

nothing in those accounts indicates that they were prepared on that basis only
because of an entitlement or expected entitlement to a credit or relief under
this Part.

8.1112G.2

But a company is not a going concern if it is in administration or
liquidation.

8.1112G.3

For the purposes of this section, a company is in administration if—

8.1112G.3.a

it is in administration under Part 2 of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Part 3 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

8.1112G.3.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

8.1112G.4

For the purposes of this section, a company is in liquidation if—

8.1112G.4.a

it is in liquidation within the meaning of section 247 of that Act or Article
6 of that Order, or

8.1112G.4.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

8.1112G.5

If—

8.1112G.5.a

a company transfers its trade and research and development to another company
that is a member of the same group, and

8.1112G.5.b

only by reason of that transfer, the company’s accounts for the period of
account in which the transfer took place are not prepared on a going concern
basis,

the accounts are to be treated for the purposes of this section as if they
were prepared on a going concern basis.

8.1112G.6

Section 436(2) of the Companies Act 2006 (meaning of “publication” of
documents) has effect for the purposes of this section.

########## Outstanding tax matters

########### No credit payable if certain tax matters outstanding

8.1112H

8.1112H.1

This section applies in relation to an amount that a company would, but for
this section, be entitled to be paid—

8.1112H.1.a

at step 7 in section  1042I  (payment of R&D expenditure credit not applied
for other purposes), or

8.1112H.1.b

under section 1054 (payment of R&D tax credit).

8.1112H.2

If the company’s tax return for the accounting period in question is enquired
into by an officer of Revenue or Customs—

8.1112H.2.a

the amount does not have to be paid to the company, but

8.1112H.2.b

an officer of Revenue and Customs may make a payment on a provisional basis of
such amount as the officer thinks fit.

8.1112H.3

If the company has outstanding PAYE or NIC liabilities for the accounting
period in question, the amount does not have to be paid to the company.

8.1112H.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , a company has outstanding PAYE or NIC
liabilities for an accounting period if it has not paid to an officer of
Revenue and Customs any amount that it is required to pay—

8.1112H.4.a

under PAYE regulations, or

8.1112H.4.b

in respect of Class 1 national insurance contributions,

for payment periods ending in the accounting period.

########## Artificially inflated claims

########### Transactions aimed at obtaining credit or relief to be disregarded

8.1112I

8.1112I.1

To the extent that a transaction is attributable to arrangements entered into
for a disqualifying purpose, it is to be disregarded in ascertaining a
company’s entitlement to relief under this Part.

8.1112I.2

Arrangements are entered into for a disqualifying purpose if their main
purpose, or one of their main purposes, is to enable a company to obtain
relief under this Part—

8.1112I.2.a

to which it would not otherwise be entitled, or

8.1112I.2.b

of greater amount than that to which it would otherwise be entitled.

########## Additional limits

########### Power to further limit Chapter 2 relief

8.1112J

The Treasury may, by regulations, limit the availability of relief under
Chapter 2 in respect of—

8.1112J.a

companies (or groups of companies) of a prescribed description,

8.1112J.b

research and development projects of a prescribed description, or

8.1112J.c

expenditure of a prescribed description.

9

9.1

Chapter 9 of Part 13 (supplementary provision) is amended as follows.

9.2

In section 1126B (regulations about consumable items and research and
development), omit subsection (3).

9.3

In section 1128 (meaning of “ externally provided worker ”), in subsection
(9), for “1131” substitute  “ 1132A ” .

9.4

In section 1129 (qualifying expenditure on externally provided workers:
connected persons)—

9.4.a

in subsection (3) omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (b);

9.4.b

in that subsection, at the end of paragraph (c) insert  “, and

9.4.b.d

is attributable to qualifying earnings of externally provided workers.

9.5

In section 1131 (qualifying expenditure on externally provided workers: other
cases)—

9.5.a

in subsection (2), for “65% of the staff provision payment” substitute  “65%
of so much of the staff provision payment as is attributable to qualifying
earnings of externally provided workers” ;

9.5.b

after subsection (3) insert—

9.5.b.4

Any apportionment of expenditure of the company necessary for the purposes of
this section is to be made on a just and reasonable basis.

9.6

After section 1132 insert—

########### “Qualifying earnings”

9.6.1132A

9.6.1132A.1

This section determines what are “ qualifying earnings ” in relation to an
externally provided worker for the purposes of this Part.

9.6.1132A.2

The worker’s earnings are qualifying earnings if either—

9.6.1132A.2.a

the staff controller, or

9.6.1132A.2.b

the company in relation to which the worker is an externally provided worker,

is, in respect of any part of those earnings, required to account to an
officer of Revenue and Customs both for income tax under PAYE regulations and
for Class 1 national insurance contributions.

9.6.1132A.3

If subsection  (2)  does not apply, the worker’s earnings are qualifying
earnings if and to the extent that they are attributable to relevant research
and development that is undertaken outside the United Kingdom and to which
section  1138A  applies.

9.6.1132A.4

In this section, “ the worker’s earnings ” means the worker’s earnings under
the contract mentioned in section 1128(7).

9.7

For section 1133 and the italic heading preceding it substitute—

########### Contracting out

############ Contracted out research and development

9.7.1133

9.7.1133.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

9.7.1133.2

A person “contracts out” research and development if—

9.7.1133.2.a

the person enters into a contract under which activities are to be undertaken
for it (whether by another party to the contract or by a sub-contractor),

9.7.1133.2.b

the activities undertaken in order to meet the obligations owed to the person
under the contract include research and development, and

9.7.1133.2.c

it is reasonable to assume, having regard to the terms of the contract and any
surrounding circumstances, that the person intended or contemplated when
entering into the contract that research and development of that sort would be
undertaken in order to meet those obligations.

9.7.1133.3

The research and development that is “contracted out” is the research and
development referred to in subsection  (2) (b) , to the extent that subsection
(2) (c)  is satisfied in relation to it.

9.7.1133.4

Research and development contracted out by a person is contracted out “to”—

9.7.1133.4.a

the party to the contract who undertakes the obligations referred to in
subsection  (2) (b) , and

9.7.1133.4.b

any sub-contractor who undertakes contractual responsibility for the
activities needed to meet those obligations.

9.7.1133.5

References to a sub-contractor include any sub-contractor at one or more
removes from the contract referred to in subsection  (2) .

9.7.1133.6

A “contractor payment” is a payment made in respect of contracted out research
and development to a person to whom it is contracted out.

9.7.1133.7

A payment that relates only partly to contracted out research and development
is to be apportioned on a just and reasonable basis for the purposes of
subsection  (6) .

9.7.1133.8

Sections 1134 to 1136 determine the “qualifying element” of a contractor
payment.

9.8

In section 1134 (qualifying element of sub-contractor payment made between
connected persons)—

9.8.a

in the heading, for “sub-contractor” substitute  “contractor” ;

9.8.b

in subsection (1), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (not including the following
“and”) substitute—

9.8.b.a

a company (“ A ”) makes a contractor payment to another person (“ B ”),

9.8.b.b

A and B are connected,

;

9.8.c

in subsection (1)(c)—

9.8.c.i

omit “sub-contractor”;

9.8.c.ii

for “the sub-contractor’s”, in both places it appears, substitute  “B’s” ;

9.8.d

in subsection (2)—

9.8.d.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “sub-contractor”;

9.8.d.ii

in paragraph (b), for “the sub-contractor’s” substitute  “B’s” ;

9.8.e

in subsection (3)—

9.8.e.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “the sub-contractor” substitute  “B” ;

9.8.e.ii

in paragraph (a), for “the sub-contractor”, in the first place it appears,
substitute  “B” ;

9.8.e.iii

also in paragraph (a), omit “sub-contractor” in the second place it appears;

9.8.e.iv

for paragraph (d) substitute—

9.8.e.iv.e

is incurred in respect of—

9.8.e.iv.e.i

research and development that is undertaken in the United Kingdom, or

9.8.e.iv.e.ii

research and development that is undertaken outside the United Kingdom and to
which section  1138A  applies.

;

9.8.f

in subsection (4)—

9.8.f.i

in paragraph (a), for “the sub-contractor” substitute  “B” ;

9.8.f.ii

in paragraph (b), for “the company’s”, in both places it appears, substitute
“A’s” ;

9.8.f.iii

also in paragraph (b), for “sub-contractor” substitute  “contractor” ;

9.8.g

for subsection (5) substitute—

9.8.g.5

In section 1123 (staffing costs) and sections 1127 to 1131 (qualifying
expenditure on externally provided workers) as they apply for the purposes of
subsection (3)(c), references to a company are to be read as references to B.

;

9.8.h

in subsection (6), for “the company or the sub-contractor” substitute  “A or
B” .

9.9

In section 1135 (election to be treated as connected for purpose of
determining qualifying element)—

9.9.a

in subsection (1), for “A company and a sub-contractor who are not connected”
substitute  “Where a company makes a contractor payment to a person with whom
it is not connected, the company and that person” ;

9.9.b

in subsection (2)—

9.9.b.i

for “sub-contractor” substitute  “contractor” ;

9.9.b.ii

omit “other arrangement”;

9.9.c

in subsection (4), omit “or other arrangement”.

9.10

For section 1136 substitute—

########### Qualifying element of contractor payment: other cases

9.10.1136

9.10.1136.1

This section applies to a contractor payment to which section 1134 does not
apply.

9.10.1136.2

The qualifying element of the payment is 65% of the relevant portion of the
payment.

9.10.1136.3

The relevant portion is the portion that is incurred in respect of—

9.10.1136.3.a

research and development that is undertaken in the United Kingdom, or

9.10.1136.3.b

research and development that is undertaken outside the United Kingdom and to
which section  1138A  applies.

9.10.1136.4

An apportionment of expenditure necessary for the purposes of this section is
to be made on a just and reasonable basis.

9.11

Omit section 1138 (meaning of “ subsidised expenditure ”).

9.12

In place of the omitted section 1138 insert—

########### Externally provided workers and contractors: R&D undertaken abroad

9.12.1138A

9.12.1138A.1

This section applies to research and development undertaken outside the United
Kingdom if—

9.12.1138A.1.a

the research and development is undertaken in the circumstances described in
subsection  (2) , or

9.12.1138A.1.b

regulations made by the Treasury provide for this section to apply.

9.12.1138A.2

The circumstances are that there are conditions necessary for the purposes of
the research and development—

9.12.1138A.2.a

that are not present in the United Kingdom,

9.12.1138A.2.b

that are present in the location in which the research and development is
undertaken, and

9.12.1138A.2.c

that it would be wholly unreasonable for the company to replicate in the
United Kingdom.

9.12.1138A.3

In subsection  (2)  “conditions”—

9.12.1138A.3.a

includes—

9.12.1138A.3.a.i

geographical, environmental or social conditions;

9.12.1138A.3.a.ii

legal or regulatory requirements as a result of which the research and
development may not be undertaken in the United Kingdom, but

9.12.1138A.3.b

does not include conditions so far as relating to—

9.12.1138A.3.b.i

the cost of the research and development;

9.12.1138A.3.b.ii

the availability of workers to carry out the research and development.

9.12.1138A.4

The Treasury may by regulations make provision specifying things that are not
conditions for the purposes of subsection  (2) .

########### Exempt foreign permanent establishments

9.12.1138B

For the purposes of this Part in its application to an accounting period, a
company’s expenditure is “attributable to an exempt foreign permanent
establishment” if—

9.12.1138B.a

an election by the company under section 18A applies to the period, and

9.12.1138B.b

the expenditure is brought into account in calculating a relevant profits
amount or a relevant losses amount for the purposes of that section as it
applies in relation to the period.

9.13

After section 1140 insert—

########### Groups

9.13.1140A

For the purposes of this Part, a company is in the same group as another
company if those companies are in the same group for the purposes of Part 5 of
CTA 2010.

9.14

In section 1142 (meaning of “ qualifying body ”)—

9.14.a

for the heading substitute  “Ineligible companies” ;

9.14.b

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), for ““ qualifying body ”
means” substitute  “a company is an “ineligible company” if it is” ;

9.14.c

after subsection (4) insert—

9.14.c.5

Two companies that are in the same group may make a joint election the effect
of which is that—

9.14.c.5.a

in respect of any research and development contracted out by one of those
companies to the other, the company contracting it out is to be treated for
the purposes of this Part as an ineligible company, and

9.14.c.5.b

in determining whether activity is research and development for the purposes
of this Part, anything done by one of those companies further to a contract
with the other is to be treated as if done by the other company, in any case
where that results in activity that would not otherwise be research and
development being regarded as such.

9.14.c.6

Such an election—

9.14.c.6.a

must be made by notice in writing to an officer of Revenue and Customs, and

9.14.c.6.b

has effect until—

9.14.c.6.b.i

it is revoked by either company by further such notice, or

9.14.c.6.b.ii

the companies are no longer in the same group.

9.15

In section 1142B (meaning of “R&D claim”), in paragraph (a), for “104A”
substitute  “ 1042C ” .

9.16

After section 1142B insert—

########### Right to payment of credit inalienable

9.16.1142C

9.16.1142C.1

The right of a company to be paid an amount of R&D expenditure credit or R&D
tax credit may not be assigned.

9.16.1142C.2

Accordingly, a purported assignment of such a right, or an agreement to assign
such a right, is void.

9.16.1142C.3

References to assignment in this section are to be read in Scotland as
references to assignation.

9.17

After section  1142C  (inserted by sub-paragraph  (16) ) insert—

########### General rule against payments of credit to nominees

9.17.1142D

9.17.1142D.1

Where an amount of R&D expenditure credit or R&D tax credit is owed to a
company, an officer of Revenue and Customs may not pay the amount to a person
other than the company (even on the instruction or at the request of the
company).

9.17.1142D.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply if—

9.17.1142D.2.a

the company requests that payment be made to a person connected with the
company, or

9.17.1142D.2.b

the officer is satisfied that exceptional circumstances make payment to the
company impracticable or inconvenient.

9.18

After section  1142D  (inserted by sub-paragraph  (17) ) insert—

########### Orders and regulations: ancillary provision

9.18.1142E

Any order or regulations under this Part may—

9.18.1142E.a

contain incidental, supplemental, consequential and transitional provision and
savings;

9.18.1142E.b

make different provision for different purposes or areas.

##### Consequential amendments

###### FA 1998

10

10.1

Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 52(2A)(b) (application of provisions about discovery assessments
to amounts paid by way of R&D expenditure credit), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3”
substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part 13” .

10.3

In paragraph 83A (application of Part 9A of the Schedule to claims for R&D
relief), for the words from “to” to the end substitute  “to claims for relief
under Part 13 of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 (relief for research and
development).”

10.4

In paragraph 83E (deadlines for claiming R&D relief)—

10.4.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), after “under” insert  “Chapter 2 of” ;

10.4.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of
Part 13” .

###### FA 2007

11

In Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors), in paragraph 28(fa)(ia) (“
corporation tax credit ” includes R&D expenditure credit), for “Chapter 6A of
Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part 13” .

###### CTA 2009

12

12.1

CTA 2009 is amended as follows.

12.2

In  Part 14A  (inserted by paragraph  1  of  Schedule 2 )—

12.2.a

in section  1179DT  (expenditure attracting R&D relief not eligible for
audiovisual expenditure credit), omit paragraph  (a) ;

12.2.b

in section  1179FL  (expenditure attracting R&D relief not eligible for video
game expenditure credit), omit paragraph  (a) .

12.3

In section 1195(3A) (expenditure attracting R&D relief or television relief
not eligible for film tax relief)—

12.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part
13” ;

12.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “Part 13 (additional relief for expenditure on research
and development)” substitute  “Chapter 2 of Part 13 (relief for loss-making,
R&D-intensive SMEs)” .

12.4

In section 1216C(4) (expenditure attracting R&D relief not eligible for
television relief)—

12.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part
13” ;

12.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “Part 13 (additional relief for expenditure on research
and development)” substitute  “Chapter 2 of Part 13 (relief for loss-making,
R&D-intensive SMEs)” .

12.5

In section 1217C(4) (expenditure attracting R&D relief not eligible for video
game relief)—

12.5.a

in paragraph (a), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part
13” ;

12.5.b

in paragraph (b), for “Part 13 (additional relief for expenditure on research
and development)” substitute  “Chapter 2 of Part 13 (relief for loss-making,
R&D-intensive SMEs)” .

12.6

In section 1217JA(2) (expenditure attracting R&D relief not eligible for
theatre relief)—

12.6.a

omit paragraph (a);

12.6.b

in paragraph (b), omit “additional”.

12.7

In section 1217RF(2) (expenditure attracting R&D relief or other creative
sector relief not eligible for orchestra relief), omit paragraph  (za)
(inserted by paragraph  8  of  Schedule 4 ).

12.8

In section 1218ZCG(2) (expenditure attracting R&D relief or other creative
sector relief not eligible for museum and gallery exhibition relief)—

12.8.a

omit paragraph (a);

12.8.b

in paragraph (b), omit “additional”.

12.9

In section 1310(4) (orders and regulations subject to affirmative procedure)—

12.9.a

omit paragraph (zzza);

12.9.b

after paragraph (zb) insert—

12.9.b.zc

section 1142(1)(e) (companies ineligible for R&D relief),

.

12.10

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions)—

12.10.a

omit the following entries—

capped R&D expenditure (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

large company (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

payment period (in Chapter 6A of Part 3

;

qualifying body (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

qualifying body (in Part 13)

;

qualifying expenditure on sub-contracted R&D (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

qualifying R&D expenditure (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

relevant payment to the subject of a clinical trial (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

relevant research and development (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

research and development (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

software, data licences, cloud computing services or consumable items (in
Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

staffing costs (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

sub-contractor payment (and sub-contractor) (in Part 13)

;

subsidised expenditure (in Part 13)

;

subsidised qualifying expenditure (in Chapter 6A of Part 3)

;

12.10.b

at the appropriate places insert—

contracted out (and related expressions) (in Part 13) section  1133

;

contractor payment (in Part 13) section  1133

;

group (in Part 13) section  1140A

;

ineligible company (in Part 13) section 1142

.

###### CTA 2010

13

13.1

CTA 2010 is amended as follows.

13.2

In section 269DA(2) (meaning of banking company’s “surcharge profits”), in the
definition of “RDEC”, for “Chapter 6A of Part 3 of CTA 2009 (trade profits:
R&D expenditure credits)” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part 13 of CTA 2009
(R&D expenditure credit)” .

13.3

In Part 8A (profits from exploiting patents etc)—

13.3.a

in section 357BJB(3) (R&D expenditure not to be routine deduction in
calculating IP profits), in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3 of
CTA 2009” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of that Part” ;

13.3.b

in section 357BLB(7)(e) (application of sections 1127 to 1131 of CTA 2009 for
purpose of determining in-house R&D expenditure under Part 8A), at the end
insert  “as those provisions had effect before the amendments made by
paragraph  9  of  Schedule 1  to FA 2024,” ;

13.3.c

in section 357CG(4)(a) (R&D expenditure credit to be deducted in calculating
IP profits), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part 13”
.

13.4

In Chapter 9 of Part 8B (treatment of R&D credits and relief for purposes of
Northern Ireland rate)—

13.4.a

in section 357P(1) (overview of Chapter), for paragraphs (a) and (b)
substitute—

13.4.a.a

Chapter  1A  of Part 13 (R&D expenditure credit), and

13.4.a.b

Chapter 2 of that Part (relief for loss-making, R&D-intensive SMEs).

;

13.4.b

in the italic heading before section 357PA, for “Chapter 6A of Part 3”
substitute  “Chapter  1A  of Part 13” ;

13.4.c

in section 357PA (R&D expenditure credit to form part of mainstream profits or
losses)—

13.4.c.i

in the heading, omit “under Chapter 6A of Part 3 of CTA 2009”;

13.4.c.ii

in subsection (1)(a), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of
Part 13” ;

13.4.d

in section 357PD (amount of R&D tax credit for Northern Ireland company)—

13.4.d.i

in subsections (2)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b), for “given by section 1058(1A) of
CTA 2009” substitute  “of the cap by reference to the company’s PAYE and NIC
liabilities for the accounting period” ;

13.4.d.ii

omit subsections (2A), (3A) and (4A);

13.4.d.iii

after subsection (5) insert—

13.4.d.iii.6

Sections  1112B  to  1112E  of CTA 2009 (determination of cap by reference to
PAYE and NIC liabilities) apply for the purposes of subsections (2)(b), (3)(b)
and (4)(b) as they apply for the purposes of section 1058(1) of CTA 2009.

###### TIOPA 2010

14

In the following provisions of TIOPA 2010, for “within the meaning of section
104A” substitute  “under Chapter  1A  of Part 13” —

14.a

section 407(3)(a) (R&D expenditure credit not to be taken into account in
determining tax-EBITDA);

14.b

section 416(2A) (R&D expenditure credit not to be taken into account in
determining worldwide group’s profit before tax).

###### FA 2013

15

In Schedule 43C to FA 2013 (penalties in connection with the general anti-
abuse rule), in paragraph 11(e)(ii) (“ corporation tax credit ” includes R&D
expenditure credit), for “Chapter 6A of Part 3” substitute  “Chapter  1A  of
Part 13” .

##### Commencement and transitional and transitory provision

###### General commencement of Parts 1 and 2

16

16.1

The amendments made by this Schedule, except those made by sub-paragraphs
(16)  to  (18)  of paragraph  9 , have effect in relation to accounting
periods beginning on or after the appointed day.

16.2

In this Part, the “appointed day” is a day appointed by the Treasury in
regulations.

###### Assignments and nominations

17

17.1

The amendment made by paragraph  9 (16)  does not have effect in relation to—

17.1.a

an assignment made before 22 November 2023,

17.1.b

an agreement made before that date, or

17.1.c

an assignment made on or after that date to carry out an agreement made before
that date.

17.2

The amendment made by paragraph  9 (17)  has effect only in relation to claims
made on or after 1 April 2024.

###### Avoidance of overlaps and gaps in entitlement during transition

18

18.1

Sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  apply if, but for those sub-paragraphs—

18.1.a

one company (“ company A ”) would be entitled to old R&D relief, and

18.1.b

another company (“ company B ”) would be entitled to new R&D relief,

in respect of expenditure attributable to the same research and development.

18.2

If company B would have been entitled to old R&D relief in respect of its
expenditure had the  Part 1  amendments not been made, only company B is
entitled to the relief.

18.3

In any other case, only company A is entitled to the relief.

18.4

Sub-paragraph  (5)  applies if—

18.4.a

a company incurs pre-commencement expenditure,

18.4.b

the company is not entitled to old R&D relief in respect of the expenditure,
and

18.4.c

had the expenditure been post-commencement expenditure, it would have been—

18.4.c.i

qualifying  Chapter 1A  expenditure by virtue of section  1042E  of CTA 2009
or section  1042F  of that Act as it refers to section  1042E , or

18.4.c.ii

qualifying Chapter 2 expenditure by virtue of section 1053 of CTA 2009 (as it
has effect after the  Part 1  amendments) or section  1053A  of that Act as it
refers to section 1053.

18.5

The company is to be treated as satisfying sections  1042F (4)  and  1053A (4)
of CTA 2009 for the purposes of ascertaining the entitlement of another
company to new R&D relief in respect of expenditure attributable to the same
research and development as the expenditure mentioned in sub-paragraph  (4) .

18.6

Sub-paragraph  (7)  applies if—

18.6.a

in respect of pre-commencement expenditure attributable to research and
development, one company (“ company C ”)—

18.6.a.i

is not entitled to old R&D relief, but

18.6.a.ii

would be so entitled if none of sections 104C(2), 104G(5), 104H(6), 104J(4),
104K(5), 104L(4), 1052(5) and 1053(4) of CTA 2009 (as they have effect before
the  Part 1  amendments) applied, and

18.6.b

in respect of post-commencement expenditure attributable to the same research
and development, another company (“ company D ”) would, had the expenditure
been pre-commencement expenditure, have been entitled to old R&D relief by
virtue of section 1053 of CTA 2009 (as it has effect before the  Part 1
amendments).

18.7

For the purpose of ascertaining the entitlement of company D to new R&D
relief, the research and development is to be treated as contracted out by
company D within the meaning of section  1133  of CTA 2009 (as it has effect
after the  Part 1  amendments).

18.8

In this paragraph—

“ the new R&D provisions ” means Part 13 of CTA 2009 as it has effect after
the  Part 1  amendments; “ new R&D relief ” means relief under the new R&D
provisions; “ the old R&D provisions ” means Chapter 6A of Part 3 or Part 13
of CTA 2009 as that Chapter or Part has effect before the  Part 1  amendments;
“ old R&D relief ” means relief under the old R&D provisions; “ the Part 1
amendments ” means the amendments made by  Part 1  of this Schedule; “ post-
commencement expenditure ” means expenditure incurred in an accounting period
beginning on or after the appointed day; “ pre-commencement expenditure ”
means expenditure incurred in an accounting period beginning before the
appointed day.

###### Transitional provision relating to claim notifications

19

The reference in section 1142B of CTA 2009 (as amended by paragraph  9 (15) )
to claims under section  1042C  of that Act is to be read as including claims
under section 104A of that Act before its repeal by paragraph  2 .

###### Transitional provision relating to the R&D intensity condition

20

The references in sections 1044 (2A) (b)  and 1045 (2A) (b)  of CTA 2009
(inserted by paragraph  6 (4)  and  (5) ) to having met the R&D intensity
condition in an accounting period—

20.a

include having met the R&D intensity condition for the purposes of paragraph
21  in an accounting period to which that paragraph applies, but

20.b

are not applicable to any other accounting period beginning before the
appointed day.

###### Higher rate of payable credit for R&D-intensive SMEs from 1 April 2023

21

21.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies if, in an accounting period beginning before the
appointed day but ending on or after 1 April 2023, a company—

21.1.a

has a Chapter 2 surrenderable loss, and

21.1.b

meets the R&D intensity condition.

21.2

The amount of R&D tax credit to which the company is entitled for the period
is to be determined as if the amendment made by section 4(3)(d) of FA 2023
(reduction in rate of credit from 14.5% to 10%) had not been made.

21.3

Subsections  (2)  to  (7)  of section  1045ZA  of CTA 2009, as inserted by
paragraph  6 (6) , determine whether a company meets the R&D intensity
condition in an accounting period for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) (b) .

21.4

But subsections  (2)  and  (3)  of that section are to be read for the
purposes of sub-paragraph  (3)  as if “40%” appeared instead of “30%”.

21.5

In this paragraph, “Chapter 2 surrenderable loss” and “R&D tax credit” have
the same meanings as in Chapter 2 of Part 13 of CTA 2009 (see sections 1054
and 1055 of that Act).

  Films, television programmes and video games

Section  3

##### New regime for films, television programmes and video games

1

After Part 14 of CTA 2009 insert—

######### Films, television programmes and video games

########## Introduction and interpretation

########### Introduction to Part

############ Overview of Part

1.1179A

1.1179A.1

This Part—

1.1179A.1.a

lays down special rules about the taxation of companies in relation to certain
production activities in creative sectors, and

1.1179A.1.b

provides an entitlement to a credit in respect of expenditure on those
activities.

1.1179A.2

In particular—

1.1179A.2.a

this Chapter makes general provision about the application of Chapters  2  and
3  and about the interpretation of this Part;

1.1179A.2.b

Chapter  2  lays down the special rules about taxation;

1.1179A.2.c

Chapter  3  provides the entitlement to credit;

1.1179A.2.d

Chapter  4  makes provision about the application of this Part to films and
television programmes;

1.1179A.2.e

Chapter  5  makes provision about the application of this Part to video games.

############ Qualifying companies and productions

1.1179AA

1.1179AA.1

Chapters  2  and  3  apply where there is a qualifying production and a
qualifying company for that production.

1.1179AA.2

The later Chapters supply the meanings of those terms.

1.1179AA.3

See in particular—

1.1179AA.3.a

section  1179D , in relation to films and television programmes;

1.1179AA.3.b

section  1179F , in relation to video games.

1.1179AA.4

Whether a company is the qualifying company for a qualifying production
(including whether the production is a qualifying production) is to be
assessed separately in relation to each accounting period of the company.

1.1179AA.5

The assessment is to be made by reference to the state of affairs at the end
of that period.

1.1179AA.6

So far as future events are relevant to the assessment, it is to be made by
reference to the reasonable expectations of the company at that time.

1.1179AA.7

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  are subject to any provision of this Part that
provides for a production no longer to be regarded as a qualifying production
in an accounting period as a result of events after the end of that period.

1.1179AA.8

Once a qualifying company has made an election under section  1179B (1)  in
respect of a qualifying production, no other company can subsequently be the
qualifying company for that production.

1.1179AA.9

In this Part, “production”, except when contained in another defined term or
used to refer to the act of producing something, means—

1.1179AA.9.a

a film (see section  1179DA ),

1.1179AA.9.b

a television programme (see section  1179DD ), or

1.1179AA.9.c

a video game.

########### Definitions and miscellaneous provision

############ UK expenditure

1.1179AB

1.1179AB.1

In this Part, “ UK expenditure ” means expenditure on goods or services that
are used or consumed in the United Kingdom.

1.1179AB.2

Any apportionment of expenditure for the purposes of this Part between
expenditure that is and is not UK expenditure is to be made on a just and
reasonable basis.

############ Company tax returns

1.1179AC

1.1179AC.1

In this Part, “ company tax return ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 18 to
FA 1998 (see paragraph 3(1)).

1.1179AC.2

Any amendment to a company tax return that must be made by virtue of this
Part, and any assessment to give effect to such a requirement, can be made
despite any limitation on the time within which such an amendment or
assessment can normally be made.

############ Groups

1.1179AD

For the purposes of this Part, a company is in the same group as another
company if those companies are in the same group for the purposes of Part 5 of
CTA 2010.

############ Regulations

1.1179AE

1.1179AE.1

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under this Part are to be made by
statutory instrument.

1.1179AE.2

An instrument containing such regulations is subject to annulment in pursuance
of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

1.1179AE.3

A power to make regulations under this Part includes the power to make
incidental, supplemental, consequential and transitional provision and
savings.

########## Special rules about taxation

########### The separate production trade

############ Election to tax qualifying production as separate trade

1.1179B

1.1179B.1

The qualifying company for a qualifying production may elect in its company
tax return for an accounting period for the production to be taxed as a
separate trade.

1.1179B.2

The effect of such an election is that the activities of the company in
relation to the production are to be treated for corporation tax purposes as a
trade separate from any other activities of the company (including activities
in relation to other qualifying productions).

1.1179B.3

In this Part—

1.1179B.3.a

that trade is called “the separate production trade”;

1.1179B.3.b

the accounting period to which the return containing the election relates is
called “the opt-in period”.

############ Duration of separate trade

1.1179BA

1.1179BA.1

When the qualifying company is treated as beginning to carry on the separate
production trade is determined by—

1.1179BA.1.a

section  1179DW , in the case of a film or television programme;

1.1179BA.1.b

section  1179FO , in the case of a video game.

1.1179BA.2

If the result is that the separate production trade is treated as having been
carried on in an accounting period before the opt-in period, any relevant
company tax return must be amended so as to give effect to that treatment in
that earlier accounting period.

1.1179BA.3

Once a company has made an election under section  1179B (1) , the activities
of the company in relation to the production are to continue to be treated as
a separate trade in accordance with this Chapter even if—

1.1179BA.3.a

the production ceases to be a qualifying production, or

1.1179BA.3.b

the company ceases to be the qualifying company for it.

1.1179BA.4

That is the case even if the production ceases to be regarded as a qualifying
production in the opt-in period as a result of events after the end of that
period.

1.1179BA.5

In the following provisions of this Chapter, “qualifying production” and
“qualifying company” are accordingly capable of including productions or
companies that used to be so.

########### Accounting for the separate trade

############ Calculation of profits

1.1179BB

1.1179BB.1

The profits of the separate production trade are to be calculated in
accordance with this section.

1.1179BB.2

For the first period of account, the following are to be brought into account—

1.1179BB.2.a

as a debit, the costs of the qualifying production incurred by the qualifying
company to date, and

1.1179BB.2.b

as a credit, the proportion of the qualifying company’s estimated total income
from the qualifying production that is treated as earned at the end of that
period.

1.1179BB.3

For subsequent periods of account, the following are to be brought into
account—

1.1179BB.3.a

as a debit, the difference between—

1.1179BB.3.a.i

the amount of the costs of the qualifying production incurred by the
qualifying company to date, and

1.1179BB.3.a.ii

the corresponding amount for the previous period, and

1.1179BB.3.b

as a credit, the difference between—

1.1179BB.3.b.i

the proportion of the qualifying company’s estimated total income from the
qualifying production that is treated as earned at the end of that period, and

1.1179BB.3.b.ii

the corresponding amount for the previous period.

1.1179BB.4

The proportion of the qualifying company’s estimated total income that is
treated as earned at the end of a period of account is given by—

      C   /   T       ×   I         where—         C is the total of the costs
of the qualifying production incurred by the qualifying company to date,
T is the estimated total cost to the qualifying company of the qualifying
production, and           I is the qualifying company’s estimated total income
from the qualifying production.

1.1179BB.5

What counts as costs of, and income from, the qualifying production is
determined by—

1.1179BB.5.a

section  1179DX , in the case of a film or television programme;

1.1179BB.5.b

section  1179FP , in the case of a video game.

(See also section  1179CB .)

1.1179BB.6

But nothing in this Part, except section  1179BE , allows an amount to count
as costs of the qualifying production if it would not generally be allowed as
a deduction in calculating the profits of a trade for corporation tax
purposes.

1.1179BB.7

Estimates for the purposes of this section must be made—

1.1179BB.7.a

as at the balance sheet date for each period of account, and

1.1179BB.7.b

on a just and reasonable basis taking into consideration all relevant
circumstances.

1.1179BB.8

Subsection  (9)  applies if a period of account of the separate production
trade does not coincide with an accounting period of the qualifying company.

1.1179BB.9

The expenditure and receipts brought into account for the period under this
section, and the resulting profit or loss, are to be apportioned to accounting
periods of the company for the purposes of this Part by reference to the
number of days in the periods concerned.

############ When costs are to be taken as incurred

1.1179BC

1.1179BC.1

For the purposes of section  1179BB , costs are incurred when they are
represented in the state of completion of the work in progress.

1.1179BC.2

Accordingly—

1.1179BC.2.a

payments in advance for work to be done are to be ignored until the work has
been carried out, and

1.1179BC.2.b

deferred payments are to be recognised to the extent that the work is
represented in the state of completion.

1.1179BC.3

But an amount that has not been paid is not an incurred cost until there is an
unconditional obligation to pay it.

1.1179BC.4

If an obligation is linked to income being earned from the qualifying
production, no amount is to be brought into account in respect of the costs of
the obligation unless an appropriate amount of income is or has been brought
into account.

############ Preliminary expenditure

1.1179BD

1.1179BD.1

This section applies if, before the qualifying company began to carry on the
separate production trade, it incurred expenditure on the development of the
qualifying production.

1.1179BD.2

The expenditure may be treated as expenditure of the separate production trade
incurred immediately after the company began to carry on the trade.

1.1179BD.3

If expenditure so treated has previously been taken into account for other tax
purposes, any relevant company tax return must be amended accordingly.

############ Treatment of certain capital amounts as revenue

1.1179BE

1.1179BE.1

This section applies for corporation tax purposes in relation to the separate
production trade.

1.1179BE.2

Expenditure that—

1.1179BE.2.a

counts as costs of the qualifying production, and

1.1179BE.2.b

would (apart from this subsection) be regarded as of a capital nature by
reason only of being incurred on the creation of an asset in the form of the
qualifying production,

is to be treated as expenditure of a revenue nature.

(As to other capital expenditure, see section 53 and section  1179BB (6) .)

1.1179BE.3

Receipts that—

1.1179BE.3.a

count as income from the qualifying production, and

1.1179BE.3.b

would (apart from this subsection) be regarded as of a capital nature,

are to be treated as receipts of a revenue nature.

########### Losses in the separate trade

############ Carrying forward of production losses

1.1179BF

1.1179BF.1

This section applies if a company makes a loss in the separate production
trade in a pre-completion period (see sections  1179DY  and  1179FQ ).

1.1179BF.2

The loss is not available for loss relief, except as provided in subsections
(3)  and  (5) .

1.1179BF.3

The loss is not prevented from being carried forward under section 45B of CTA
2010 to be deducted from profits of the separate production trade in a
subsequent period.

1.1179BF.4

If the loss is so carried forward and deducted, the deduction is to be ignored
for the purposes of section 269ZB of CTA 2010.

1.1179BF.5

To the extent that the loss could be carried forward under section 45B of CTA
2010 to the completion period or a subsequent accounting period, it may
instead be treated for the purposes of section 37 and Part 5 of CTA 2010 as a
loss made in that period.

1.1179BF.6

Subsection  (5)  does not apply to the extent that the loss is carried forward
by virtue of section  1179BG .

1.1179BF.7

In this section, “ loss relief ” includes any means by which a loss might be
used to reduce the amount in respect of which the company, or any other
person, is chargeable to tax.

############ Transfer of terminal loss to other qualifying production

1.1179BG

1.1179BG.1

This section applies if—

1.1179BG.1.a

a company (“the principal company”) ceases to carry on the separate production
trade in respect of a production,

1.1179BG.1.b

the principal company could, but for the cessation of that trade, carry an
amount (“the terminal loss”) forward under section 45A or 45B of CTA 2010 to
an accounting period after that in which the cessation occurs,

1.1179BG.1.c

when the trade ceases, either the principal company or another company in the
same group carries on another separate production trade under this Chapter
(“the other trade”), and

1.1179BG.1.d

the ceased trade and the other trade both relate to productions that are or
were qualifying productions by virtue of the same Chapter of this Part.

1.1179BG.2

If the other trade is carried on by the principal company, the company may, by
making a claim, treat the terminal loss (or part of it) as a loss made in the
other trade that is carried forward under section 45B of CTA 2010.

1.1179BG.3

If the other trade is carried on by another company—

1.1179BG.3.a

the principal company may surrender the terminal loss (or part of it) to the
other company, and

1.1179BG.3.b

the other company may, by making a claim, elect for the surrendered amount to
be treated as a loss made in the other trade that is carried forward under
section 45B of CTA 2010.

1.1179BG.4

The carrying forward of a loss by virtue of subsection  (2)  or  (3)  is to
the first accounting period beginning after the cessation of the ceased trade.

1.1179BG.5

If—

1.1179BG.5.a

the other trade is no longer carried on that accounting period,

1.1179BG.5.b

the company carrying on the other trade is not entitled to an expenditure
credit under Chapter  3  for that accounting period in respect of the other
trade, or

1.1179BG.5.c

in a case within subsection  (3) , the other company does not make the
election in relation to that accounting period,

the claim under subsection  (2)  or the surrender under subsection  (3)  is to
be treated as not having been made.

1.1179BG.6

The Treasury may, in relation to surrenders or elections under subsection  (3)
, make provision by regulations corresponding, subject to such adaptations or
modifications as appear to them to be appropriate, to that made by Part 8 of
Schedule 18 to the FA 1998.

1.1179BG.7

A deduction made under section 45B of CTA 2010 by virtue of this section is to
be ignored for the purposes of section 269ZB of CTA 2010.

1.1179BG.8

The principal company is not entitled to relief under section 45F of CTA 2010
in respect of an amount surrendered under subsection  (3) .

########## Expenditure credit

########### The entitlement

############ Entitlement to expenditure credit

1.1179C

1.1179C.1

The qualifying company for a qualifying production is entitled to an
expenditure credit for—

1.1179C.1.a

the opt-in period, and

1.1179C.1.b

(subject to subsection  (2) ) any subsequent accounting period in which it
continues to carry on the separate production trade.

1.1179C.2

If in any of those subsequent periods the production is no longer a qualifying
production, or the company is no longer the qualifying company for it, the
company is not entitled to an expenditure credit for the period.

1.1179C.3

But that does not affect the entitlement of the company for any subsequent
period in which the production is once again a qualifying production or the
company is once again the qualifying company for it.

1.1179C.4

If a production ceases to be regarded as a qualifying production in an
accounting period as a result of events after the end of that period—

1.1179C.4.a

the qualifying company is no longer entitled to an expenditure credit for that
period, and

1.1179C.4.b

any company tax return drawn up in reliance on such an entitlement must be
amended so as to remove anything derived from that entitlement.

1.1179C.5

An expenditure credit to which a company is entitled may be claimed by the
company in accordance with Part 9D of Schedule 18 to FA 1998.

############ Amount of expenditure credit

1.1179CA

1.1179CA.1

The amount of the expenditure credit to which a qualifying company is entitled
for an accounting period is determined as follows.

      Step 1       Ascertain the total of the company’s relevant global
expenditure (see subsection  (2) ) for all accounting periods up to and
including the present one.           Step 2       Deduct from that total any
expenditure that is not UK expenditure (see section  1179AB ).           Step
3       If the amount remaining after step 2 exceeds 80% of the total
ascertained at step 1, deduct the amount of the excess.       The remaining
amount is the company’s “qualifying expenditure to date”.           Step 4
Deduct from the company’s qualifying expenditure to date the amount (if any)
that was the company’s qualifying expenditure to date in the accounting period
for which it was last entitled to, and claimed, an expenditure credit in
respect of the qualifying production.       The remaining amount is the
company’s “qualifying expenditure for the period”.           Step 5       The
amount of the credit to which the company is entitled is the relevant
percentage of the company’s qualifying expenditure for the period.       The
relevant percentage is determined by—         section  1179DV , in the case of
a film or television programme;           section  1179FN , in the case of a
video game.

1.1179CA.2

Expenditure is “relevant global expenditure” for an accounting period if—

1.1179CA.2.a

it is brought into account under section  1179BB  in calculating the profits
of the separate production trade for that period, and

1.1179CA.2.b

it counts as relevant production expenditure in relation to the qualifying
production under—

1.1179CA.2.b.i

section  1179DR , in the case of a film or television programme;

1.1179CA.2.b.ii

section  1179FJ , in the case of a video game.

########### Treatment of credit

############ Expenditure credit to count as taxable receipt

1.1179CB

1.1179CB.1

An expenditure credit under this Chapter is not to be treated as income for
the purposes of section  1179BB .

1.1179CB.2

But if a company is entitled to, and claims, an expenditure credit under this
Chapter for an accounting period, the profits of the separate production trade
for that period must (having first been calculated in accordance with section
1179BB ) be adjusted by bringing the amount of the expenditure credit into
account as a credit.

############ Redemption of value of expenditure credit

1.1179CC

If a company is entitled to, and claims, an expenditure credit under this
Chapter for an accounting period, the credit is to be dealt with as follows.

      Step 1       The amount of the credit is to be applied in discharging
any liability of the company to pay corporation tax for the accounting period.
Step 2       Any amount remaining after step 1 is to be reduced, if necessary,
to the amount given by—     A   -   B         where—         A is the initial
amount of the credit (before step 1), and           B is the amount of
corporation tax that would be chargeable on that amount if it were an amount
of profits for the accounting period on which corporation tax was chargeable
at the main rate.                   For provision about the treatment of an
amount deducted under this step, see section  1179CD .           Step 3
The amount remaining after step 2 is to be applied in discharging any
liability of the company to pay corporation tax for any other accounting
period.           Step 4       If the company is a member of a group, it may
surrender the whole or part of any amount remaining after step 3 to any other
member of the group (as to which see section  1179CE ).           Step 5
Any amount remaining after step 4 is to be applied in discharging any other
liability of the company to pay a sum to the Commissioners for His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs—         under or by virtue of an enactment, or
under an agreement made in connection with any person’s liability to make a
payment to the Commissioners under or by virtue of an enactment.
Step 6       Any amount remaining after step 5 is (subject to sections  1179CG
and  1179CH ) to be paid to the company by an officer of Revenue and Customs.

############ Treatment of notional tax deduction

1.1179CD

1.1179CD.1

This section applies if an amount is deducted under step 2 in section  1179CC
from the amount of the qualifying company’s expenditure credit.

1.1179CD.2

If the qualifying company is a member of a group, it may, in respect of the
accounting period for which the expenditure credit arises, surrender the whole
or part of the deducted amount to any other member of the group (as to which
see section  1179CE ).

1.1179CD.3

To the extent that the deducted amount is not surrendered under subsection
(2) , it is to be carried forward to the next accounting period of the
qualifying company, and subsections  (4)  and  (5)  apply.

1.1179CD.4

The carried-forward amount is to be applied in discharging any liability of
the qualifying company to pay corporation tax for the accounting period.

1.1179CD.5

If—

1.1179CD.5.a

any of the carried-forward amount remains after the application of subsection
(4) , and

1.1179CD.5.b

the qualifying company is a member of a group,

the qualifying company may, in respect of the accounting period, surrender the
whole or part of the remaining amount to any other member of the group (as to
which see section  1179CE ).

1.1179CD.6

If any of the carried-forward amount remains after the application of
subsections  (4)  and  (5) , it is to be carried forward to the next
accounting period of the qualifying company, and those subsections apply again
in relation to that accounting period.

############ Amounts surrendered to other group companies

1.1179CE

1.1179CE.1

Subsection  (3)  applies if an amount of expenditure credit is surrendered by
the qualifying company to another member of its group under step 4 in section
1179CC  or under section  1179CD (2)  or  (5) .

1.1179CE.2

For the purposes of that subsection—

1.1179CE.2.a

the accounting period in respect of which the surrender is made is “the
surrender AP”;

1.1179CE.2.b

an accounting period of the other group member is an “overlapping AP” if it
overlaps to any extent with the surrender AP.

1.1179CE.3

The surrendered amount is to be dealt with as follows.

      Step 1       Select an overlapping AP.           Step 2       Calculate
the proportion of the overlapping AP that overlaps with the surrender AP, and
apply that proportion to the amount of corporation tax payable by the other
group member for that overlapping AP.           Step 3       Calculate the
proportion of the surrender AP that overlaps with the overlapping AP, and
apply that proportion to the surrendered amount.           Step 4       The
amount given by step 3 is to be applied in discharging the liability of the
other group member to pay the corporation tax mentioned in step 2, up to the
amount given by that step.           Step 5       Select another overlapping
AP, if there is one, and repeat steps 2 to 4.           Step 6       If any of
the surrendered amount remains after steps 2 to 4 have been taken in relation
to each overlapping AP, the remainder is to be treated for the purposes of
section  1179CC  or (as the case may be) section  1179CD  as if it had not
been surrendered as mentioned in subsection  (1) .

1.1179CE.4

A surrender to which subsection  (3)  applies is not to be—

1.1179CE.4.a

taken into account in determining, for corporation tax purposes, the profits
of the qualifying company or the other group member, or

1.1179CE.4.b

regarded for corporation tax purposes as the making of a distribution.

############ Priority of discharge

1.1179CF

1.1179CF.1

An amount within subsection  (2)  is to be applied as described in that
subsection before any amount within subsection  (3)  is applied as described
in that subsection.

1.1179CF.2

An amount is within this subsection if it is to be applied under—

1.1179CF.2.a

section  1179CD (4) , or

1.1179CF.2.b

section  1179CE (3)  as it applies in relation to an amount surrendered under
section  1179CD (2)  or  (5) ,

in discharging the liability of a company to pay corporation tax for an
accounting period.

1.1179CF.3

An amount is within this subsection if it is to be (or would but for
subsection  (1)  be) applied under—

1.1179CF.3.a

section  1179CC , or

1.1179CF.3.b

section  1179CE (3)  as it applies in relation to an amount surrendered under
section  1179CC ,

in discharging the same liability as an amount within subsection  (2) .

########### Restrictions on payment

############ No credit payable if company in administration or liquidation

1.1179CG

1.1179CG.1

No amount may be paid to a company at step 6 of section  1179CC  if, when the
company claims the expenditure credit from which the amount is derived, the
company is in administration or liquidation.

1.1179CG.2

For the purposes of this section, a company is in administration if—

1.1179CG.2.a

it is in administration under Part 2 of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Part 3 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

1.1179CG.2.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

1.1179CG.3

For the purposes of this section, a company is in liquidation if—

1.1179CG.3.a

it is in liquidation within the meaning of section 247 of that Act or Article
6 of that Order, or

1.1179CG.3.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

############ No credit payable if certain tax matters outstanding

1.1179CH

1.1179CH.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

1.1179CH.1.a

a company would (but for that subsection) be entitled to be paid an amount at
step 6 of section  1179CC , and

1.1179CH.1.b

the company’s tax return for the accounting period in question is enquired
into by an officer of Revenue and Customs.

1.1179CH.2

The amount does not have to be paid to the company; but an officer of Revenue
and Customs may make a payment on a provisional basis of such amount as the
officer thinks fit.

1.1179CH.3

Subsection  (4)  applies if—

1.1179CH.3.a

a company would (but for that subsection) be entitled to be paid an amount at
step 6 of section  1179CC , and

1.1179CH.3.b

the company has not paid to an officer of Revenue and Customs any amount that
it is required to pay—

1.1179CH.3.b.i

under PAYE regulations,

1.1179CH.3.b.ii

under section 966 of ITA 2007 (visiting performers), or

1.1179CH.3.b.iii

in respect of Class 1 national insurance contributions,

for payment periods ending in the accounting period in question.

1.1179CH.4

The amount does not have to be paid to the company; but an officer of Revenue
and Customs may make a payment of such amount as the officer thinks fit.

1.1179CH.5

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , a “payment period” is—

1.1179CH.5.a

in relation to PAYE regulations or Class 1 national insurance contributions, a
period—

1.1179CH.5.a.i

which ends on the fifth day of a month, and

1.1179CH.5.a.ii

for which the company is liable to account for income tax and national
insurance contributions to an officer of Revenue and Customs;

1.1179CH.5.b

in relation to section 966 of ITA 2007, a period for which the company is
required to make a return as described in section 969(1)(b) of that Act.

########### Artificial arrangements

############ Disqualifying arrangements and non-commercial transactions

1.1179CI

1.1179CI.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply if, at any time, a company is party to
disqualifying arrangements in relation to anything that is, was or becomes a
qualifying production ( “the production” ).

1.1179CI.2

The company is not entitled to an expenditure credit under this Chapter in
respect of the production for any accounting period.

1.1179CI.3

Any relevant company tax return must be amended accordingly.

1.1179CI.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if a transaction—

1.1179CI.4.a

is attributable to arrangements (other than disqualifying arrangements)
entered into otherwise than for genuine commercial reasons, and

1.1179CI.4.b

would result in a company obtaining a relevant advantage.

1.1179CI.5

The relevant advantage is to be counteracted by the making of just and
reasonable adjustments to any amounts relevant to the calculation of the
company’s entitlement to an expenditure credit under this Chapter.

1.1179CI.6

Those adjustments may be made (for example) by way of amendment, assessment,
or modification of an assessment.

1.1179CI.7

For the purposes of this section, arrangements are disqualifying arrangements
if their main purpose, or one of their main purposes, is to enable the company
to obtain a relevant advantage.

1.1179CI.8

But such arrangements are not disqualifying arrangements if the obtaining of
that advantage as a result of the arrangements could reasonably be regarded as
consistent with—

1.1179CI.8.a

the principles (whether expressed or implied) on which the provisions of this
Part are based, and

1.1179CI.8.b

the policy objectives of those provisions.

1.1179CI.9

For the purposes of this section, a company would obtain a relevant advantage
if it would become entitled to an expenditure credit under this Chapter—

1.1179CI.9.a

to which it would not otherwise be entitled, or

1.1179CI.9.b

of a greater amount than that to which it would otherwise be entitled.

1.1179CI.10

In this section, “ arrangements ” includes any scheme, agreement or
understanding, whether or not legally enforceable.

########## Films and television programmes

########### General

############ Application of Chapters 

1.1179D

1.1179D.1

For the purposes of this Part—

1.1179D.1.a

a qualifying film (see section  1179DB ) or qualifying television programme
(see section  1179DE ) is a qualifying production, and

1.1179D.1.b

the production company for a qualifying film or a qualifying television
programme (see section  1179DP ) is the qualifying company for that film or
programme.

1.1179D.2

The following provisions of this Chapter apply for the purposes of this Part
in relation to films and television programmes.

1.1179D.3

Expenditure credit under Chapter  3  is called “audiovisual expenditure
credit” when the entitlement to it arises in respect of a film or television
programme.

########### Qualifying films

############ Meaning of “film”

1.1179DA

1.1179DA.1

“ Film ” includes any record, however made, of a sequence of visual images
that is capable of being used as a means of showing that sequence as a moving
picture.

1.1179DA.2

Each part of a series of films is treated as a separate film, unless—

1.1179DA.2.a

the films form a series with not more than 26 parts,

1.1179DA.2.b

the combined playing time is not more than 26 hours, and

1.1179DA.2.c

the series constitutes a self-contained work or is a series of documentaries
with a common theme,

in which case the films are treated as a single film.

1.1179DA.3

References to a film include the film soundtrack.

############ Qualifying films

1.1179DB

A film is a qualifying film if it meets—

1.1179DB.a

the theatrical release condition (see section  1179DC ),

1.1179DB.b

the British certification condition (see section  1179DJ ), and

1.1179DB.c

the UK expenditure condition (see section  1179DO ).

############ Theatrical release condition

1.1179DC

1.1179DC.1

A film meets the theatrical release condition if—

1.1179DC.1.a

the film is intended for exhibition to the paying public at the commercial
cinema, and

1.1179DC.1.b

a significant proportion of the earnings from the film is intended to be
obtained by such exhibition.

1.1179DC.2

If the film does not meet that condition in an accounting period after the
opt-in period, it cannot meet it in any subsequent accounting period (subject
to section  1179E ).

########### Qualifying television programmes

############ Meaning of “television programme”

1.1179DD

1.1179DD.1

“ Television programme ” means any programme (with or without sounds) which—

1.1179DD.1.a

is produced to be seen on television or on the internet, and

1.1179DD.1.b

consists of moving or still images or of legible text or of a combination of
those things.

1.1179DD.2

Two or more television programmes that are commissioned together under the
same agreement are to be treated as a single television programme.

############ Qualifying television programmes

1.1179DE

A television programme is a qualifying television programme if—

1.1179DE.a

it is of an eligible category (see section  1179DF ),

1.1179DE.b

it is not an excluded programme (see section  1179DG ),

1.1179DE.c

it meets the broadcast condition (see section  1179DH ),

1.1179DE.d

in the case of a programme that is not an animation or a children’s programme,
it meets the slot length and hourly cost conditions (see section  1179DI ),

1.1179DE.e

it meets the British certification condition (see section  1179DJ ), and

1.1179DE.f

it meets the UK expenditure condition (see section  1179DO ).

############ Categories of qualifying programme

1.1179DF

1.1179DF.1

The eligible categories of television programme are—

1.1179DF.1.a

dramas,

1.1179DF.1.b

documentaries,

1.1179DF.1.c

animations, and

1.1179DF.1.d

children’s programmes.

1.1179DF.2

A television programme is a drama if—

1.1179DF.2.a

it consists wholly or mainly of a depiction of events,

1.1179DF.2.b

the events are depicted wholly or mainly by one or more persons performing,
and

1.1179DF.2.c

the whole or a major proportion of what is done by the person or persons
performing, whether by way of speech, acting, singing or dancing, involves the
playing of a role.

(Accordingly, “ drama ” may include a comedy.)

1.1179DF.3

A television programme is a documentary if—

1.1179DF.3.a

it depicts real events, places or circumstances,

1.1179DF.3.b

it is not a drama, and

1.1179DF.3.c

it is primarily intended to record or inform.

1.1179DF.4

A programme is a children’s programme if, when production activities begin, it
is reasonable to expect that the persons who will make up the programme’s
primary audience will be under the age of 15.

1.1179DF.5

See section  1179EA (3)  for the meaning of “animation”.

############ Excluded programmes

1.1179DG

1.1179DG.1

A television programme is an excluded programme if—

1.1179DG.1.a

it is an advertisement or other promotional programme,

1.1179DG.1.b

it is a news or current affairs programme or discussion programme,

1.1179DG.1.c

it is a quiz show, game show, panel show, variety show, chat show or similar
entertainment,

1.1179DG.1.d

it consists of or includes a competition or contest, or the results of a
competition or contest,

1.1179DG.1.e

it is a broadcast of a live event or of a theatrical or artistic performance
given otherwise than for the purpose of being filmed, or

1.1179DG.1.f

it is produced for training purposes.

1.1179DG.2

But a children’s programme is not an excluded programme by virtue of being a
quiz show or game show, or falling within subsection  (1) (d) , if the prize
total does not exceed £1,000.

1.1179DG.3

For that purpose the “prize total” for a programme is the total of—

1.1179DG.3.a

the amount of each relevant prize that is a money prize, and

1.1179DG.3.b

the amount spent on each other relevant prize by, or on behalf of, its
provider;

and here “ relevant prize ” means a prize offered in connection with
participation in a quiz, game, competition or contest in, or promoted by, the
programme.

1.1179DG.4

The Treasury may by regulations amend subsection  (2)  for the purpose of
increasing the amount of the money limit for the time being specified in that
subsection.

############ Broadcast condition

1.1179DH

1.1179DH.1

A television programme meets the broadcast condition if—

1.1179DH.1.a

it is intended for broadcast to the general public, and

1.1179DH.1.b

it is not a film that meets the theatrical release condition (see section
1179DC ).

1.1179DH.2

If the television programme does not meet that condition in an accounting
period after the opt-in period, it cannot meet it in any subsequent accounting
period (subject to section  1179E ).

############ Slot length and hourly cost conditions

1.1179DI

1.1179DI.1

A television programme that consists of distinct episodes meets the slot
length condition if the slot length of each episode is greater than 20
minutes.

1.1179DI.2

A television programme that does not consist of distinct episodes meets the
slot length condition if the slot length of the programme is greater than 20
minutes.

1.1179DI.3

A television programme meets the hourly cost condition if the average core
expenditure per hour of slot length in relation to the programme is at least
£1 million.

1.1179DI.4

In this section, “ slot length ” means the period of time which the episode or
(as the case may be) programme is commissioned to fill.

########### British certification condition

############ British certification condition: provisional and final satisfaction

1.1179DJ

1.1179DJ.1

In this section, references to a certificate are to be read—

1.1179DJ.1.a

in relation to a film, as references to a certificate under Schedule 1 to the
Films Act 1985, and

1.1179DJ.1.b

in relation to a television programme, as references to a certificate under
section  1179DM .

1.1179DJ.2

A film or television programme meets the British certification condition in a
pre-completion period (see section  1179DY ) if—

1.1179DJ.2.a

an interim certificate has effect in relation to it at the end of that period,
and

1.1179DJ.2.b

the production company’s company tax return for that period is accompanied by
the certificate.

1.1179DJ.3

A film or television programme meets the British certification condition in
the completion period (see section  1179DY ) and any subsequent accounting
period if—

1.1179DJ.3.a

at the end of the completion period, either—

1.1179DJ.3.a.i

a final certificate has effect in relation to the film or programme, or

1.1179DJ.3.a.ii

the production company has abandoned production activities in relation to the
film or programme and an interim certificate has effect in relation to it, and

1.1179DJ.3.b

the production company’s company tax return for that period is accompanied by
the certificate.

1.1179DJ.4

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  are subject to subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

1.1179DJ.5

If a film or television programme does not meet the British certification
condition in the completion period, it is no longer to be regarded as having
met the condition (nor, therefore, as being a qualifying film or qualifying
television programme) in any pre-completion period.

1.1179DJ.6

If, after the end of an accounting period, a certificate ceases to have effect
in respect of that period, the film or programme in question is no longer to
be regarded as having met the British certification condition (nor, therefore,
as being a qualifying film or qualifying television programme) in that period
in reliance on that certificate.

1.1179DJ.7

Subsection  (6)  does not apply where an interim certificate ceases to have
effect on being superseded by a final certificate.

1.1179DJ.8

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , a certificate that ceases to have effect
so ceases in respect of all accounting periods, except to the extent that a
direction under paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Films Act 1985 or section
1179DM  provides otherwise.

############ Television programmes: test for certification

1.1179DK

1.1179DK.1

The Secretary of State, with the approval of the Treasury, may by regulations
specify conditions which must be met by a television programme before it may
be certified as a British programme.

1.1179DK.2

Such regulations may—

1.1179DK.2.a

specify different conditions in relation to different descriptions of
programme;

1.1179DK.2.b

provide that certain descriptions of programme may not be certified as a
British programme;

1.1179DK.2.c

enable the Secretary of State to direct that any provision made by virtue of
paragraph  (b)  does not apply to a programme that meets certain conditions.

############ Television programmes: applications for certification

1.1179DL

1.1179DL.1

The production company for a television programme may apply to the Secretary
of State for a certificate under section  1179DM  in relation to the
programme.

1.1179DL.2

An application may be for an interim certificate or a final certificate.

1.1179DL.3

An interim certificate is a certificate that—

1.1179DL.3.a

is granted before the programme is completed (see section  1179EB ), and

1.1179DL.3.b

states that the programme, if completed in accordance with the proposals set
out in the application, will be a British programme.

1.1179DL.4

A final certificate is a certificate that—

1.1179DL.4.a

is granted after the programme is completed, and

1.1179DL.4.b

states that the programme is a British programme.

1.1179DL.5

The Secretary of State may require an applicant to provide documents or
information to assist the Secretary of State in determining the application.

1.1179DL.6

The Secretary of State may require information provided for the purposes of an
application to be accompanied by a statutory declaration, made by the person
providing it, as to the truth of the information.

1.1179DL.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision supplementing this
section, including—

1.1179DL.7.a

provision about the form of applications,

1.1179DL.7.b

provision about the particulars and evidence necessary for satisfying the
Secretary of State that a programme meets any conditions that apply by virtue
of section  1179DK , and

1.1179DL.7.c

provision that any statutory declaration which is required by subsection  (6)
to be made by any person may be made on the person’s behalf by such person as
is specified in the regulations.

############ Television programmes: certification and revocation

1.1179DM

1.1179DM.1

If—

1.1179DM.1.a

an application is made in accordance with section  1179DL , and

1.1179DM.1.b

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the television programme concerned
meets any conditions that apply by virtue of section  1179DK ,

the Secretary of State must certify the programme accordingly.

1.1179DM.2

An interim certificate—

1.1179DM.2.a

may be given subject to conditions, and (unless the Secretary of State directs
otherwise) is of no effect if the conditions are not met, and

1.1179DM.2.b

may be expressed to expire after a specified period, and (unless the Secretary
of State directs otherwise) ceases to have effect at the end of that period.

1.1179DM.3

If it appears to the Secretary of State that a film or television programme
certified under this section ought not to have been certified, the Secretary
of State may revoke the certificate.

1.1179DM.4

Unless the Secretary of State directs otherwise, a certificate that is revoked
is treated as never having had effect.

############ Disclosure of information for certification purposes

1.1179DN

1.1179DN.1

Section 18(1) of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005
(restriction on disclosure by Revenue and Customs officials) does not prevent
disclosure to the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Secretary of
State’s functions under—

1.1179DN.1.a

Schedule 1 to the Films Act 1985, or

1.1179DN.1.b

sections  1179DK  to  1179DM .

1.1179DN.2

Information disclosed to the Secretary of State for those purposes may be
disclosed by the Secretary of State to the British Film Institute.

1.1179DN.3

The Treasury may by regulations amend subsection  (2) —

1.1179DN.3.a

so as to substitute for the person or body specified in that subsection a
different person or body, or

1.1179DN.3.b

in consequence of a change in the name of the person or body so specified.

1.1179DN.4

A person to whom information is disclosed under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may
not otherwise disclose it except—

1.1179DN.4.a

for the purposes of the Secretary of State’s functions under the provisions
referred to in subsection  (1) ,

1.1179DN.4.b

if the disclosure is authorised by an enactment,

1.1179DN.4.c

in pursuance of an order of a court,

1.1179DN.4.d

for the purposes of a criminal investigation or legal proceedings (whether
criminal or civil) connected with the operation of this Part or Schedule 1 to
the Films Act 1985,

1.1179DN.4.e

with the consent of the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,
or

1.1179DN.4.f

with the consent of each person to whom the information relates.

1.1179DN.5

Section 19 of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (offence of
unlawful disclosure of revenue and customs information) applies in relation to
a contravention of subsection  (4)  as it applies in relation to a
contravention of the provisions referred to in subsection (1) of that section.

########### UK expenditure condition

############ UK expenditure condition: provisional and final satisfaction

1.1179DO

1.1179DO.1

A film or television programme meets the UK expenditure condition in a pre-
completion period (see section  1179DY ) if—

1.1179DO.1.a

the production company’s company tax return for the period states—

1.1179DO.1.a.i

the total amount of core expenditure that is expected to be incurred in
relation to the film or programme, and

1.1179DO.1.a.ii

the amount of that expenditure that is expected to be UK expenditure, and

1.1179DO.1.b

the second of those amounts is at least 10% of the first.

1.1179DO.2

A film or television programme meets the UK expenditure condition in the
completion period (see section  1179DY ) and any subsequent accounting period
if—

1.1179DO.2.a

the production company’s company tax return for the completion period states—

1.1179DO.2.a.i

the total amount of core expenditure that has been incurred in relation to the
film or programme, and

1.1179DO.2.a.ii

the amount of that expenditure that is UK expenditure, and

1.1179DO.2.b

the second of those amounts is at least 10% of the first.

1.1179DO.3

Subsection  (1)  is subject to subsections  (4)  and  (5) .

1.1179DO.4

If a film or television programme does not meet the UK expenditure condition
in a pre-completion period, it is no longer to be regarded as having done so
(nor, therefore, as being a qualifying film or qualifying television
programme) in any previous accounting period by virtue of subsection  (1)  as
it applies to that previous period.

1.1179DO.5

If a film or television programme does not meet the UK expenditure condition
in the completion period, it is no longer to be regarded as having done so
(nor, therefore, as being a qualifying film or qualifying television
programme) in any pre-completion period.

1.1179DO.6

References in this section to core expenditure are to core expenditure
incurred—

1.1179DO.6.a

in the case of a film or programme other than a qualifying co-production, by
the production company, or

1.1179DO.6.b

in the case of a qualifying co-production, by the co-producers.

1.1179DO.7

The Treasury may by regulations amend the percentage specified in subsection
(1)  or  (2) .

########### Production companies

############ Meaning of “production company”

1.1179DP

1.1179DP.1

A company is the production company for a film or television programme that is
not a qualifying co-production if—

1.1179DP.1.a

it is responsible for—

1.1179DP.1.a.i

pre-production, principal photography and post-production of the film or
programme, and

1.1179DP.1.a.ii

delivery of the film or programme in completed form,

1.1179DP.1.b

it is actively engaged in production planning and decision-making during pre-
production, principal photography and post-production,

1.1179DP.1.c

it directly negotiates, contracts and pays for rights, goods and services in
relation to the film or programme, and

1.1179DP.1.d

it is more directly engaged in the matters described in paragraphs  (a)  to
(c) , taken as a whole, than any other company that satisfies those
paragraphs.

1.1179DP.2

A company is the production company for a film or television programme that is
a qualifying co-production if—

1.1179DP.2.a

the company is a co-producer of the co-production,

1.1179DP.2.b

the company makes an effective creative, technical and artistic contribution
to the film or programme, and

1.1179DP.2.c

its creative, technical, and artistic contribution is greater than that of any
other company that—

1.1179DP.2.c.i

is also a co-producer of the co-production, and

1.1179DP.2.c.ii

is chargeable to corporation tax on income it receives from the film or
programme (or would be if it received any).

1.1179DP.3

Activities carried on in partnership are to be ignored in determining whether
a company is the production company for a film or television programme.

############ Qualifying co-productions and co-producers

1.1179DQ

1.1179DQ.1

A film is a “qualifying co-production” if it falls to be treated as a national
film in the United Kingdom under an international agreement.

1.1179DQ.2

A television programme is a “qualifying co-production” if it is eligible to be
certified under section  1179DM  under an international agreement.

1.1179DQ.3

A company is a “co-producer” of a qualifying co-production if it is regarded
as such under the international agreement by virtue of which the film or
television programme in question is a qualifying co-production.

1.1179DQ.4

In this section, “ international agreement ” means an agreement between His
Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom and any other government,
international organisation or authority.

########### Qualifying expenditure and rate of credit

############ Expenditure that qualifies for credit

1.1179DR

Expenditure incurred by the production company for a film or television
programme counts as “ relevant production expenditure ” for the purposes of
section  1179CA (2)  if—

1.1179DR.a

it is core expenditure in relation to that film or television programme (see
section  1179DS ), and

1.1179DR.b

it is not excluded expenditure (see sections  1179DT  and  1179DU ).

############ Meaning of “core expenditure”

1.1179DS

Expenditure is “ core expenditure ” in relation to a film or television
programme if it is expenditure on the pre-production, principal photography or
post-production of the film or programme.

############ Excluded expenditure: research and development

1.1179DT

Expenditure is excluded expenditure to the extent that the production company
would, in respect of the expenditure, be able to claim—

1.1179DT.a

an R&D expenditure credit under Chapter 6A of Part 3, or

1.1179DT.b

relief under Part 13 (relief for expenditure on research and development).

############ Excluded expenditure: non-arm’s-length dealings with connected parties

1.1179DU

1.1179DU.1

Expenditure is excluded expenditure to the extent that it represents connected
party profit, unless subsection  (3)  applies.

1.1179DU.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , expenditure represents connected party
profit—

1.1179DU.2.a

if it is a payment to a person (“ C ”) in exchange for something supplied by
that person,

1.1179DU.2.b

if the production company is connected with C, and

1.1179DU.2.c

if, and to the extent that, the amount of the payment exceeds the expenditure
incurred by C in supplying that thing.

1.1179DU.3

This subsection applies if the amount of the payment is no more than would
have been the case had the transaction been entered into at arm’s length.

1.1179DU.4

A transaction would have been entered into “at arm’s length” if it made “the
arm’s length provision” within the meaning of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (and for
this purpose any limitation on the application of that Part is to be
disregarded).

1.1179DU.5

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  apply if—

1.1179DU.5.a

the supply by C to the production company is one of a sequence of transactions
in which the thing supplied has been supplied by one person to another, and

1.1179DU.5.b

either—

1.1179DU.5.b.i

each transacting party in the sequence is connected to at least one other
transacting party in the sequence, or

1.1179DU.5.b.ii

each transaction in the sequence is entered into in furtherance of a single
scheme or arrangement (of whatever kind, and whether or not legally
enforceable).

1.1179DU.6

The reference to C in subsection  (2) (c)  is to be read as a reference to the
supplier in the first transaction in the sequence.

1.1179DU.7

The reference to the transaction in subsection  (3)  is to be read as
including each transaction in the sequence.

1.1179DU.8

In this section, “ payment ” includes any transfer of value.

############ Percentage of qualifying expenditure translated into credit

1.1179DV

1.1179DV.1

This section determines the relevant percentage for the purposes of step 5 in
section  1179CA (1) .

1.1179DV.2

In the case of—

1.1179DV.2.a

a qualifying film that is not an animation, or

1.1179DV.2.b

a qualifying television programme that is not an animation or a children’s
programme,

the relevant percentage is 34%.

1.1179DV.3

In the case of—

1.1179DV.3.a

a qualifying film that is an animation, or

1.1179DV.3.b

a qualifying television programme that is an animation or a children’s
programme,

the relevant percentage is, subject to the following subsections, 39%.

1.1179DV.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if, for any accounting period, the production company
is entitled to, and claims, an audiovisual expenditure credit on the basis
that the film or programme falls within subsection  (2) .

1.1179DV.5

In relation to any subsequent accounting period, the relevant percentage is
34%.

1.1179DV.6

The Treasury may by regulations replace the percentage for the time being
specified in subsection  (2) ,  (3)  or  (5)  with a different percentage.

########### Accounting for the separate trade

############ When the separate trade begins

1.1179DW

For the purposes of section  1179B , the production company for a film or
television programme is treated as beginning the separate production trade in
respect of the film or programme—

1.1179DW.a

when pre-production of the film or programme begins,

1.1179DW.b

if earlier, when any income from the film or programme is received by the
company.

############ Costs and income of separate trade

1.1179DX

1.1179DX.1

This section applies for the purposes of section  1179BB  as that section
applies in relation to a film or television programme.

1.1179DX.2

Expenditure counts towards the costs of the film or programme if it is
expenditure on—

1.1179DX.2.a

production activities in connection with the film or programme, or

1.1179DX.2.b

activities with a view to exploiting the film or programme.

1.1179DX.3

But an amount that has not been paid within the period of 4 months beginning
with the first day after the final day of a period of account is not to count
towards the costs incurred in that period.

1.1179DX.4

Receipts count towards the income from the film or programme if they are
receipts in connection with the making or exploitation of the film or
programme, including—

1.1179DX.4.a

receipts from the sale of the film or programme or rights in it,

1.1179DX.4.b

royalties or other payments for use of the film or programme, or aspects of it
(for example, characters or music),

1.1179DX.4.c

payments for rights to produce games or other merchandise, and

1.1179DX.4.d

receipts by way of a profit share agreement.

############ Accounting periods

1.1179DY

1.1179DY.1

A reference to an accounting period, in relation to a film or television
programme, is a reference to an accounting period of the production company
for the film or programme.

1.1179DY.2

A reference to the “ completion period ”, in relation to a film or television
programme, is a reference to the accounting period in which—

1.1179DY.2.a

the film or programme is completed (see section  1179EB ), or

1.1179DY.2.b

the production company abandons production activities in relation to the film
or programme.

1.1179DY.3

The production company for a film or television programme must, in its company
tax return for the completion period, state whichever of those has occurred.

1.1179DY.4

A reference to a “ pre-completion period ”, in relation to a film or
television programme, is a reference to any accounting period before the
completion period in relation to that film or programme.

1.1179DY.5

In this section, “ production company ” includes a company that is no longer
the production company for the film or television programme but is still
carrying on the separate production trade in relation to it.

########### Miscellaneous

############ Effect of move out of higher-percentage category

1.1179DZ

1.1179DZ.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if, for an accounting period, a production company is
entitled to, and claims, an audiovisual expenditure credit—

1.1179DZ.1.a

in respect of a film on the basis that it is an animation, or

1.1179DZ.1.b

in respect of a television programme on the basis that it is an animation or a
children’s programme.

1.1179DZ.2

The production company may not, for any subsequent accounting period, claim an
audiovisual expenditure credit in respect of the film or programme on the
basis that it is—

1.1179DZ.2.a

a qualifying film other than an animation, or

1.1179DZ.2.b

a qualifying television programme other than an animation or a children’s
programme.

1.1179DZ.3

Subsection  (2)  ceases to apply if the company amends its company tax return
for the accounting period referred to in subsection  (1)  to withdraw the
claim for expenditure credit for that period.

1.1179DZ.4

An amendment may be made for that purpose despite any limitation on the time
within which the return could normally be amended.

############ Production qualifying consecutively as film and television programme

1.1179E

1.1179E.1

The same production may be a qualifying film in one accounting period and a
qualifying television programme in a subsequent accounting period, or vice
versa.

1.1179E.2

Such a change does not interrupt the application of this Part in relation to
the film or programme.

1.1179E.3

Section  1179DC (2)  does not apply to a failure to meet the theatrical
release condition in an accounting period if, in that period, the film was a
qualifying television programme.

1.1179E.4

Section  1179DH (2)  does not apply to a failure to meet the broadcast
condition in an accounting period if, in that period, the television programme
was a qualifying film.

1.1179E.5

A certificate under Schedule 1 to the Films Act 1985 has effect for the
purposes of this Part as it may apply to the certified film as a television
programme.

1.1179E.6

A certificate under section  1179DM  has effect for the purposes of this Part
as it may apply to the certified television programme as a film.

############ Meaning of “production activities”, “principal photography” and “animation”

1.1179EA

1.1179EA.1

“ Production activities ”, in relation to a film or television programme,
means the activities involved in development, pre-production, principal
photography and post-production of the film or programme.

1.1179EA.2

“ Principal photography ”, in relation to a film or television programme,
includes the generation of images by a computer for inclusion in the film or
programme.

1.1179EA.3

A film or television programme is an “animation” if (and only if)—

1.1179EA.3.a

the imagery of the completed film or programme includes animation, and

1.1179EA.3.b

the core expenditure on the completed animation constitutes at least 51% of
the total core expenditure on the completed film or programme.

############ When film or programme is completed

1.1179EB

1.1179EB.1

A film is “completed” when it is first in a form in which it can reasonably be
regarded as ready for copies of it to be made and distributed for presentation
to the general public.

1.1179EB.2

A television programme is “completed” when it is first in a form in which it
can reasonably be regarded as ready for broadcast to the general public.

########## Video games

########### General

############ Application of Chapters 

1.1179F

1.1179F.1

For the purposes of this Part—

1.1179F.1.a

a qualifying video game (see section  1179FA ) is a qualifying production, and

1.1179F.1.b

the development company for a qualifying video game (see section  1179FI ) is
the qualifying company for that video game.

1.1179F.2

The following provisions of this Chapter apply for the purposes of this Part
in relation to video games.

1.1179F.3

Expenditure credit under Chapter  3  is called “video game expenditure credit”
when the entitlement to it arises in respect of a video game.

########### Qualifying video games

############ Video games that are qualifying video games

1.1179FA

1.1179FA.1

A video game is a qualifying video game if—

1.1179FA.1.a

it is not an excluded game (see subsection  (2) ),

1.1179FA.1.b

it meets the intended supply condition (see section  1179FB ),

1.1179FA.1.c

it meets the British certification condition (see section  1179FC ), and

1.1179FA.1.d

it meets the UK expenditure condition (see section  1179FH ).

1.1179FA.2

A video game is an excluded game if it is produced for—

1.1179FA.2.a

advertising or promotional purposes, or

1.1179FA.2.b

the purposes of gambling, within the meaning of the Gambling Act 2005.

############ Intended supply condition

1.1179FB

1.1179FB.1

A video game meets the intended supply condition if it is intended for supply
to the general public.

1.1179FB.2

If the video game does not meet that condition in an accounting period after
the opt-in period, it cannot meet it in any subsequent accounting period.

########### British certification condition

############ British certification condition: provisional and final satisfaction

1.1179FC

1.1179FC.1

In this section, references to a certificate are to a certificate under
section  1179FF .

1.1179FC.2

A video game meets the British certification condition in a pre-completion
period (see section  1179FQ ) if—

1.1179FC.2.a

an interim certificate has effect in relation to it at the end of that period,
and

1.1179FC.2.b

the development company’s company tax return for that period is accompanied by
the certificate.

1.1179FC.3

A video game meets the British certification condition in the completion
period (see section  1179FQ ) and any subsequent accounting period if—

1.1179FC.3.a

at the end of the completion period, either—

1.1179FC.3.a.i

a final certificate has effect in relation to the video game, or

1.1179FC.3.a.ii

the development company has abandoned development activities in relation to
the video game and an interim certificate has effect in relation to it, and

1.1179FC.3.b

the development company’s company tax return for that period is accompanied by
the certificate.

1.1179FC.4

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  are subject to subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

1.1179FC.5

If a video game does not meet the British certification condition in the
completion period, it is no longer to be regarded as having done so (nor,
therefore, as being a qualifying video game) in any pre-completion period.

1.1179FC.6

If, after the end of an accounting period, a certificate ceases to have effect
in respect of that period, the video game in question is no longer to be
regarded as having met the British certification condition (nor, therefore, as
being a qualifying video game) in that period in reliance on that certificate.

1.1179FC.7

Subsection  (6)  does not apply where an interim certificate ceases to have
effect on being superseded by a final certificate.

1.1179FC.8

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , a certificate that ceases to have effect
so ceases in respect of all accounting periods, except to the extent that a
direction under section  1179FF  provides otherwise.

############ Test for certification

1.1179FD

1.1179FD.1

The Secretary of State, with the approval of the Treasury, may by regulations
specify conditions which must be met by a video game before it may be
certified as a British video game.

1.1179FD.2

Such regulations may—

1.1179FD.2.a

specify different conditions in relation to different descriptions of video
game;

1.1179FD.2.b

provide that certain descriptions of video game may not be certified as a
British video game;

1.1179FD.2.c

enable the Secretary of State to direct that any provision made by virtue of
paragraph  (b)  does not apply to a video game that meets certain conditions.

############ Applications for certification

1.1179FE

1.1179FE.1

The development company for a video game may apply to the Secretary of State
for a certificate under section  1179FF  in relation to the programme.

1.1179FE.2

An application may be for an interim certificate or a final certificate.

1.1179FE.3

An interim certificate is a certificate that—

1.1179FE.3.a

is granted before the video game is completed (see section  1179FS ), and

1.1179FE.3.b

states that the video game, if completed in accordance with the proposals set
out in the application, will be a British video game.

1.1179FE.4

A final certificate is a certificate that—

1.1179FE.4.a

is granted after the video game is completed, and

1.1179FE.4.b

states that the video game is a British video game.

1.1179FE.5

The Secretary of State may require an applicant to provide documents or
information to assist the Secretary of State in determining the application.

1.1179FE.6

The Secretary of State may require information provided for the purposes of an
application to be accompanied by a statutory declaration, made by the person
providing it, as to the truth of the information.

1.1179FE.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision supplementing this
section, including—

1.1179FE.7.a

provision about the form of applications,

1.1179FE.7.b

provision about the particulars and evidence necessary for satisfying the
Secretary of State that a video game meets any conditions that apply by virtue
of section  1179FD , and

1.1179FE.7.c

provision that any statutory declaration which is required by subsection  (6)
to be made by any person may be made on the person’s behalf by such person as
is specified in the regulations.

############ Certification and revocation

1.1179FF

1.1179FF.1

If—

1.1179FF.1.a

an application is made in accordance with section  1179FE , and

1.1179FF.1.b

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the video game concerned meets any
conditions that apply by virtue of section  1179FD ,

the Secretary of State must certify the video game accordingly.

1.1179FF.2

An interim certificate—

1.1179FF.2.a

may be given subject to conditions, and (unless the Secretary of State directs
otherwise) is of no effect if the conditions are not met, and

1.1179FF.2.b

may be expressed to expire after a specified period, and (unless the Secretary
of State directs otherwise) ceases to have effect at the end of that period.

1.1179FF.3

If it appears to the Secretary of State that a video game certified under this
section ought not to have been certified, the Secretary of State may revoke
the certificate.

1.1179FF.4

Unless the Secretary of State directs otherwise, a certificate that is revoked
is treated as never having had effect.

############ Disclosure of information for certification purposes

1.1179FG

Section  1179DN  (disapplication of section 18, and application of section 19,
of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005) has effect in relation
to the Secretary of State’s functions under sections  1179FD  to  1179FF  as
it has effect in relation to the Secretary of State’s functions under sections
1179DK  to  1179DM .

########### UK expenditure condition

############ UK expenditure condition

1.1179FH

1.1179FH.1

A video game meets the UK expenditure condition in a pre-completion period
(see section  1179FQ ) if—

1.1179FH.1.a

the development company’s company tax return for the period states—

1.1179FH.1.a.i

the total amount of core expenditure that is expected to be incurred in
relation to the video game, and

1.1179FH.1.a.ii

the amount of that expenditure that is expected to be UK expenditure, and

1.1179FH.1.b

the second of those amounts is at least 10% of the first.

1.1179FH.2

A video game meets the UK expenditure condition in the completion period (see
section  1179FQ ) and any subsequent accounting period if—

1.1179FH.2.a

the development company’s company tax return for the completion period states—

1.1179FH.2.a.i

the total amount of core expenditure that has been incurred in relation to the
video game, and

1.1179FH.2.a.ii

the amount of that expenditure that is UK expenditure, and

1.1179FH.2.b

the second of those amounts is at least 10% of the first.

1.1179FH.3

Subsection  (1)  is subject to subsections  (4)  and  (5) .

1.1179FH.4

If a video game does not meet the UK expenditure condition in a pre-completion
period, it is no longer to be regarded as having done so (nor, therefore, as
being a qualifying video game) in any previous accounting period by virtue of
subsection  (1)  as it applies to that previous period.

1.1179FH.5

If a video game does not meet the UK expenditure condition in the completion
period, it is no longer to be regarded as having done so (nor, therefore, as
being a qualifying video game) in any pre-completion period.

1.1179FH.6

References in this section to core expenditure are to core expenditure
incurred by the development company.

1.1179FH.7

The Treasury may by regulations amend the percentage specified in subsection
(1)  or  (2) .

########### Development companies

############ Meaning of “development company”

1.1179FI

1.1179FI.1

A company is the development company for a video game if—

1.1179FI.1.a

it is responsible for designing, producing and testing the video game,

1.1179FI.1.b

it is actively engaged in planning and decision-making during the design,
production and testing of the video game,

1.1179FI.1.c

it directly negotiates, contracts and pays for rights, goods and services in
relation to the video game, and

1.1179FI.1.d

it is more directly engaged in the matters described in paragraphs  (a)  to
(c) , taken as a whole, than any other company that satisfies those
paragraphs.

1.1179FI.2

Activities carried on in partnership are to be ignored in determining whether
a company is the development company for a video game.

########### Qualifying expenditure and rate of credit

############ Expenditure that qualifies for credit

1.1179FJ

Expenditure incurred by the development company for a video game counts as “
relevant production expenditure ” for the purposes of section  1179CA (2)  if—

1.1179FJ.a

it is core expenditure in relation to that video game (see section  1179FK ),
and

1.1179FJ.b

it is not excluded expenditure (see sections  1179FL  and  1179FM ).

############ Meaning of “core expenditure”

1.1179FK

1.1179FK.1

Expenditure is “ core expenditure ” in relation to a video game if it is
expenditure on designing, producing or testing the video game.

1.1179FK.2

But core expenditure does not include expenditure on—

1.1179FK.2.a

designing the initial concept for a video game, or

1.1179FK.2.b

debugging, or carrying out maintenance in connection with, a completed video
game.

############ Excluded expenditure: research and development

1.1179FL

Expenditure is excluded expenditure to the extent that the development company
would, in respect of the expenditure, be able to claim—

1.1179FL.a

an R&D expenditure credit under Chapter 6A of Part 3, or

1.1179FL.b

relief under Part 13 (relief in respect of expenditure on research and
development).

############ Excluded expenditure: non-arm’s-length dealings with connected parties

1.1179FM

1.1179FM.1

Expenditure is excluded expenditure to the extent that it represents connected
party profit, unless subsection  (3)  applies.

1.1179FM.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , expenditure represents connected party
profit—

1.1179FM.2.a

if it is a payment to a person (“ C ”) in exchange for something supplied by
that person,

1.1179FM.2.b

if the development company is connected with C, and

1.1179FM.2.c

if, and to the extent that, the amount of the payment exceeds the expenditure
incurred by C in supplying that thing.

1.1179FM.3

This subsection applies if the amount of the payment is no more than would
have been the case had the transaction been entered into at arm’s length.

1.1179FM.4

A transaction would have been entered into “at arm’s length” if it made “the
arm’s length provision” within the meaning of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (and for
this purpose any limitation on the application of that Part is to be
disregarded).

1.1179FM.5

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  apply if—

1.1179FM.5.a

the supply by C to the development company is one of a sequence of
transactions in which the thing supplied has been supplied by one person to
another, and

1.1179FM.5.b

either—

1.1179FM.5.b.i

each transacting party in the sequence is connected to at least one other
transacting party in the sequence, or

1.1179FM.5.b.ii

each transaction in the sequence is entered into in furtherance of a single
scheme or arrangement (of whatever kind, and whether or not legally
enforceable).

1.1179FM.6

The reference to C in subsection  (2) (c)  is to be read as a reference to the
supplier in the first transaction in the sequence.

1.1179FM.7

The reference to the transaction in subsection  (3)  is to be read as
including each transaction in the sequence.

1.1179FM.8

In this section, “ payment ” includes any transfer of value.

############ Percentage of qualifying expenditure translated into credit

1.1179FN

1.1179FN.1

In relation to a qualifying video game, the relevant percentage for the
purposes of step 5 in section  1179CA (1)  is 34%.

1.1179FN.2

The Treasury may by regulations replace the percentage for the time being
specified in subsection  (1)  with a different percentage.

########### Accounting for the separate trade

############ When the separate trade begins

1.1179FO

For the purposes of section  1179B , the development company for a video game
is treated as beginning the separate production trade in respect of the video
game—

1.1179FO.a

when the design of the video game begins,

1.1179FO.b

if earlier, when any income from the video game is received by the company.

############ Costs and income of separate trade

1.1179FP

1.1179FP.1

This section applies for the purposes of section  1179BB  as that section
applies in relation to a video game.

1.1179FP.2

Expenditure counts towards the costs of the video game if it is expenditure
on—

1.1179FP.2.a

development activities in connection with the video game, or

1.1179FP.2.b

activities with a view to exploiting the video game.

1.1179FP.3

But an amount that has not been paid within the period of 4 months beginning
with the first day after the final day of a period of account is not to count
towards the costs incurred in that period.

1.1179FP.4

Receipts count towards the income from the video game if they are receipts in
connection with the production or exploitation of the video game, including—

1.1179FP.4.a

receipts from the sale of the video game or rights in it,

1.1179FP.4.b

royalties or other payments for use of the video game, or aspects of it (for
example, characters or music),

1.1179FP.4.c

payments for rights to produce games or other merchandise, and

1.1179FP.4.d

receipts by way of a profit share agreement.

############ Accounting periods

1.1179FQ

1.1179FQ.1

A reference to an accounting period, in relation to a video game, is a
reference to an accounting period of the development company for the video
game.

1.1179FQ.2

A reference to the “ completion period ”, in relation to a video game, is a
reference to the accounting period in which—

1.1179FQ.2.a

the video game is completed (see section  1179FS ), or

1.1179FQ.2.b

the development company abandons development activities in relation to the
video game.

1.1179FQ.3

The development company for a video game must, in its company tax return for
the completion period, state whichever of those has occurred.

1.1179FQ.4

A reference to a “ pre-completion period ”, in relation to a video game, is a
reference to any accounting period before the completion period in relation to
that video game.

1.1179FQ.5

In this section, “ development company ” includes a company that is no longer
the development company for the video game but is still carrying on the
separate production trade in relation to it.

########### Miscellaneous

############ Meaning of “development activities”

1.1179FR

“ Development activities ”, in relation to a video game, means the activities
involved in designing, producing and testing the video game.

############ When video game is completed

1.1179FS

A video game is “completed” when it is first in a form in which it can
reasonably be regarded as ready for copies of it to be made and made available
to the general public.

##### Amendments consequential on Part 

###### Films Act 1985

2

2.1

The Films Act 1985 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 6 (certification of British films), after “purposes of” insert
“audiovisual expenditure credit and” .

2.3

In Schedule 1 (certification of British films)—

2.3.a

in the heading, after “purposes of” insert  “audiovisual expenditure credit
and” ;

2.3.b

in paragraph 1(1), for the definition of “film production company” substitute—

      “ film production company ”, in relation to a film, means a company that
is the production company for the film for the purposes of Part  14A  of the
Corporation Tax Act 2009 (see section  1179DP  of that Act) or the film
production company in relation to the film for the purposes of Part 15 of that
Act (see section 1182 of that Act).

###### FA 1998

3

3.1

Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns etc) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 10 (certain claims and elections to be included in tax return)—

3.2.a

in sub-paragraph (4), for the words from “for” to “or” substitute  “under
Parts  14A  to” ;

3.2.b

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

3.2.b.4A

An election under section  1179B  of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 (opting into
Part  14A  of that Act) can only be made by being included in a company tax
return.

3.3

In the heading of Part 9D, for the words from “for” to “or” substitute  “under
Parts  14A  to” .

3.4

In paragraph 83S (application of Part 9D), for “the following reliefs—”
substitute  “—

3.4.za

audiovisual expenditure credit or video game expenditure credit,

.

###### FA 2007

4

In Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors), in paragraph 28(fa) (meaning
of “ corporation tax credit ”), before paragraph (iv) insert—

4.iiia

an audiovisual expenditure credit or video game expenditure credit under
Chapter  3  of Part  14A  of CTA 2009 (expenditure credit in respect of films,
television programmes and video games),

.

###### CTA 2009

5

5.1

CTA 2009 is amended as follows.

5.2

For sections 808 to 808E substitute—

############ Assets representing expenditure on separate creative production trade

5.2.807A

This Part does not apply to an intangible fixed asset held by a company
treated as carrying on a separate trade under any of Parts  14A  to 15E
(production of films, television programmes, video games, theatrical
productions, orchestral concerts and museum and gallery exhibitions), so far
as the asset represents expenditure of that separate trade.

5.3

In section 1040ZA (restrictions on claiming other reliefs where R&D relief
given), before subsection (1) insert—

5.3.A1

For provision prohibiting audiovisual expenditure credit or video game
expenditure credit being given where relief is available under this Part, see
sections  1179DT  and  1179FL .

5.4

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate places
insert—

      accounting period (in  Part 14A ) sections  1179DY (1)  (in relation to
films and television programmes) and  1179FQ (1)  (in relation to video games)

;

      animation (in  Part 14A ) section  1179EA (3)

;

      audiovisual expenditure credit section  1179D (3)

;

      company tax return (in  Part 14A ) section  1179AC

;

      completed (in  Part 14A ) sections  1179EB  (in relation to films and
television programmes) and  1179FS  (in relation to video games)

;

      completion period (in  Part 14A ) sections  1179DY (2)  (in relation to
films and television programmes) and  1179FQ (2)  (in relation to video games)

;

      co-producer (of a qualifying co-production) (in  Part 14A ) section
1179DQ

;

      core expenditure sections  1179DS  (in relation to films and television
programmes) and  1179FK  (in relation to video games)

;

      development activities section  1179FR

;

      development company (in  Part 14A ) section  1179FI

;

      film (in  Part 14A ) section  1179DA

;

      group (in  Part 14A ) section  1179AD

;

      opt-in period (in  Part 14A ) section  1179B (3)

;

      pre-completion period (in  Part 14A ) sections  1179DY (4)  (in relation
to films and television programmes) and  1179FQ (4)  (in relation to video
games)

;

      principal photography (in  Part 14A ) section  1179EA (2)

;

      production (in  Part 14A ) section  1179AA (9)

;

      production activities (in  Part 14A ) section  1179EA (1)

;

      production company (in  Part 14A ) section  1179DP

;

      qualifying company (in  Part 14A ) sections  1179D (1)  (in relation to
films and television programmes) and  1179F (1)  (in relation to video games);
and see also section  1179BA (5)

;

      qualifying co-production (in  Part 14A ) section  1179DQ

;

      qualifying film (in  Part 14A ) section  1179DB

;

      qualifying production (in  Part 14A ) sections  1179D (1)  (in relation
to films and television programmes) and  1179F (1)  (in relation to video
games); and see also section  1179BA (5)

;

      qualifying television programme (in  Part 14A ) section  1179DE

;

      qualifying video game (in  Part 14A ) section  1179FA

;

      the separate production trade (in  Part 14A ) section  1179B (3)

;

      television programme (in  Part 14A ) section  1179DD

;

      UK expenditure (in  Part 14A ) section  1179AB

;

      video game expenditure credit section  1179F (3)

.

###### CTA 2010

6

6.1

CTA 2010 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 45A(3) (conditions for carrying forward trade loss against total
profits), in paragraph (b)(ii), after “section” insert  “ 1179BF ,” .

6.3

In Part 8A (profits from exploiting patents etc)—

6.3.a

in section 357BJB (deductions that are not routine deductions in calculating
relevant IP profits)—

6.3.a.i

in subsection (1), after paragraph (d) insert—

6.3.a.i.da

subsection  (7A)  (expenditure on the production of films, television
programmes and video games),

;

6.3.a.ii

after subsection (7) insert—

6.3.a.ii.7A

Head 4A is the amount of any expenditure in respect of which the company is
entitled to an audiovisual expenditure credit or video game expenditure credit
under  Part 14A  of CTA 2009.

;

6.3.b

in section 357CG (adjustments in calculating relevant IP profits), in
subsection (4), after paragraph (a) (but not the following “and”) insert—

6.3.b.aa

the amount of any audiovisual expenditure credit or video game expenditure
credit under  Part 14A  of CTA 2009 brought into account in calculating the
profits of the trade for the accounting period,

.

6.4

In Part 8B (profits taxable at Northern Ireland rate), after Chapter 10
insert—

############ Films, television programmes and video games qualifying for expenditure credit

############# Introduction

############## Application and interpretation

6.4.357QE

6.4.357QE.1

This Chapter makes provision about the interaction between this Part and Part
14A  of CTA 2009 (films, television programmes and video games).

6.4.357QE.2

This Chapter applies if—

6.4.357QE.2.a

a company is a Northern Ireland company in an accounting period,

6.4.357QE.2.b

the company is treated under Part  14A  of CTA 2009 as carrying on a separate
trade in that period (see  1179B  of that Act), and

6.4.357QE.2.c

that trade is a qualifying trade.

6.4.357QE.3

References in this Chapter to “the Northern Ireland company”, “ the accounting
period ” and “ the separate trade ” are to be read accordingly.

############# Expenditure credit

############## Expenditure credit to count towards mainstream profits or losses

6.4.357QF

6.4.357QF.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if, under section  1179CB  of CTA 2009 (expenditure
credit under Part  14A  of CTA 2009 to be taxable receipt), the Northern
Ireland company brings an amount of audiovisual expenditure credit or video
game expenditure credit into account in calculating the profits of the
separate trade for the accounting period.

6.4.357QF.2

The amount is to form part of the mainstream profits or mainstream losses of
the trade for that period.

############# Losses of separate trade

############## Carrying forward of production losses

6.4.357QG

6.4.357QG.1

If the accounting period is a pre-completion period within the meaning of
section  1179BF  of CTA 2009 (carrying forward of production losses in
separate trade), that section applies in relation to the separate trade and
that accounting period subject to the following provisions.

6.4.357QG.2

In subsection  (1)  of that section, the reference to a loss is to be read as
a reference to—

6.4.357QG.2.a

any Northern Ireland losses, or

6.4.357QG.2.b

any mainstream losses;

and the rest of that section is to be read accordingly.

6.4.357QG.3

Subsection  (4)  applies if the Northern Ireland company has in the accounting
period—

6.4.357QG.3.a

both Northern Ireland losses of the separate trade and mainstream profits of
that trade, or

6.4.357QG.3.b

both mainstream losses of the separate trade and Northern Ireland profits of
that trade.

6.4.357QG.4

The company may, despite section  1179BF (2)  of CTA 2009, claim under section
37 (relief for trade losses against total profits) for—

6.4.357QG.4.a

relief for those Northern Ireland losses against those mainstream profits, or

6.4.357QG.4.b

relief for those mainstream losses against those Northern Ireland profits.

############## Transfer of terminal loss

6.4.357QH

6.4.357QH.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

6.4.357QH.1.a

the Northern Ireland company ceases to carry on the separate trade in the
accounting period,

6.4.357QH.1.b

as a result, section  1179BG  of CTA 2009 (transfer of terminal loss in
separate production trade to other production or group company) applies, and

6.4.357QH.1.c

the amount in respect of which it applies (see subsection  (1) (b)  of that
section) represents a Northern Ireland loss.

6.4.357QH.2

The references to a loss in subsections  (2)  and  (3) (b)  of that section
are to be read as references to a Northern Ireland loss.

##### Repeal of existing regimes for films, television programmes and video games

7

In CTA 2009, omit Parts 15 to 15B.

##### Amendments consequential on Part 

###### Films Act 1985

8

8.1

The Films Act 1985 is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 6 (certification of British films) (as amended by paragraph  2 ),
omit “and film tax relief”.

8.3

In Schedule 1 (certification of British films) (as amended by paragraph  2 )—

8.3.a

in the heading, omit “and film tax relief”;

8.3.b

in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of “film production company”, omit the
words from “or” to the end.

###### ICTA

9

9.1

Section 826 of ICTA (interest on tax overpaid) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1), omit paragraphs (f) to (fb).

9.3

In subsection (3C), omit “film tax credit, television tax credit, video game
tax credit,”.

9.4

In subsection (8A)(b)(ii), omit “or film tax credit or television tax credit
or video game tax credit”.

9.5

In subsection (8BA), omit “or film tax credit or television tax credit or
video game tax credit” in both places those words occur.

###### FA 1998

10

10.1

Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns etc) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 10 (certain claims and elections to be included in tax return),
omit sub-paragraphs (5) to (7).

10.3

In paragraph 52 (recovery of excessive payments), in sub-paragraph  (2B)
(inserted by  Schedule 6 ), omit paragraphs  (b)  to  (d) .

10.4

In paragraph 83S (application of Part 9D), omit sub-paragraphs (a) to (c).

###### FA 2007

11

In Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors), in paragraph 28(fa) (meaning
of “ corporation tax credit ”), omit paragraphs (iv) to (ivb).

###### CTA 2009

12

12.1

CTA 2009 is amended as follows.

12.2

In section 1040ZA (restrictions on claiming other reliefs where R&D relief
given), omit subsections (1) to (3).

12.3

In section 1310(4) (orders and regulations subject to affirmative procedure),
omit paragraphs (a) to (ej).

12.4

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions), omit the following entries—

      company tax return (in Part 15)

;

      company tax return (in Part 15A)

;

      company tax return (in Part 15B)

;

      the completion period (in Chapter 5 of Part 15)

;

      the completion period (in Chapter 5 of Part 15A)

;

      the completion period (in Chapter 5 of Part 15B)

;

      co-producer (in Part 15)

;

      co-producer (in Part 15A)

;

      core expenditure (in Part 15)

;

      core expenditure (in Part 15A)

;

      core expenditure (in Part 15B)

;

      costs of the film (in Chapter 2 of Part 15)

;

      costs of the relevant programme (in Chapter 2 of Part 15A)

;

      costs of the video game (in Chapter 2 of Part 15B)

;

      European expenditure (in Part 15B)

;

      film (in Part 15)

;

      film-making activities (in Part 15)

;

      film production company (in Part 15)

;

      film tax relief (in Part 15)

;

      final certificate (in Chapter 5 of Part 15)

;

      final certificate (in Chapter 5 of Part 15A)

;

      final certificate (in Chapter 5 of Part 15B)

;

      income from the film (in Chapter 2 of Part 15)

;

      income from the relevant programme (in Chapter 2 of Part 15A)

;

      income from the video game (in Chapter 2 of Part 15B)

;

      interim accounting period (in Chapter 5 of Part 15)

;

      interim accounting period (in Chapter 5 of Part 15A)

;

      interim accounting period (in Chapter 5 of Part 15B)

;

      principal photography (in Part 15)

;

      principal photography (in Part 15A)

;

      production expenditure (in Part 15)

;

      production expenditure (in Part 15A)

;

      qualifying co-production (in Part 15)

;

      qualifying co-production (in Part 15A)

;

      qualifying expenditure (in Chapter 3 of Part 15)

;

      qualifying expenditure (in Chapter 3 of Part 15A)

;

      qualifying expenditure (in Chapter 3 of Part 15B)

;

      relevant programme (in Part 15A)

;

      the separate film trade (in Chapters 2, 3 and 5 of Part 15)

;

      the separate programme trade (in Chapters 2, 3 and 5 of Part 15A)

;

      the separate video game trade (in Chapters 2, 3 and 5 of Part 15B)

;

      special film relief (in Chapter 5 of Part 15)

;

      special television relief (in Chapter 5 of Part 15A)

;

      special video games relief (in Chapter 5 of Part 15B)

;

      television production activities (in Part 15A)

;

      television production company (in Part 15A)

;

      television programme (in Part 15A)

;

      television tax relief (in Part 15A)

;

      UK expenditure (in Part 15)

;

      UK expenditure (in Part 15A)

;

      video game (in Part 15B)

;

      video games development activities (in Part 15B)

;

      video games development company (in Part 15B)

;

      video games tax relief (in Part 15B)

.

###### FA 2009

13

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 54A to FA 2009 (amounts of overpaid repayment
interest recoverable as late payment interest), omit paragraphs (e) to (g).

###### CTA 2010

14

14.1

CTA 2010 is amended as follows.

14.2

In section 45A(3) (conditions for carrying forward trade loss against total
profits), in paragraph (b)(ii), omit “1209, 1216DA, 1217DA,”.

14.3

In section 45B(1) (cases in which trade loss carried forward against trade
profits)—

14.3.a

in paragraph (d), omit “, 2”;

14.3.b

omit Case 2.

14.4

In section 357BI (excluded debits under Part 8A), omit paragraphs (c) and (d)
(but not the following “and”).

14.5

In section 357BJB (deductions that are not routine deductions under Part 8A),
omit subsections (1)(e) and (f), (8) and (9).

14.6

In section 357CG (adjustments in calculating relevant IP profits under Part
8A)—

14.6.a

in subsection (3), omit paragraphs (c) and (d);

14.6.b

omit subsection (5A);

14.6.c

in subsection (6)—

14.6.c.i

for “subsections (5) and (5A)” substitute  “subsection (5)” ;

14.6.c.ii

omit the following definitions—

      qualifying expenditure

;

      the separate programme trade

;

      the separate video game trade

;

      television production company

;

      theatrical production

;

      video games development company

.

14.7

Omit section 357CHA (deemed shortfall in television or video game expenditure
for purposes of adjusting relevant IP profits).

14.8

In Part 8B (profits taxable at Northern Ireland rate), omit Chapters 11 to 13.

###### FA 2016

15

In Schedule 24 to FA 2016 (tax advantages constituting the grant of state
aid), in Part 1, in the table headed “Creative tax reliefs”, omit the entries
for film tax relief, television tax reliefs and video games tax relief.

##### Commencement and transitional provision

###### General commencement

16

16.1

No election under section  1179B (1)  of CTA 2009 may be made in a company tax
return for an accounting period ending before 1 January 2024.

16.2

The amendments made by Parts  3  and  4  of this Schedule have effect in
relation to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2027.

###### Closure of existing regimes to new productions

17

A company is not to be treated as carrying on a separate trade under Part 15,
15A or 15B of CTA 2009 if the trade would be treated under that Part as
beginning on or after 1 April 2025.

###### Opting into new regime during transitional period

18

18.1

If a company makes an election under section  1179B (1)  of CTA 2009 in its
company tax return for an accounting period beginning before 1 January 2024—

18.1.a

Part  14A  of CTA 2009 applies further to that election only in respect of the
portion of the accounting period that falls on or after that date, and

18.1.b

the relevant existing regime applies in respect of the portion of the
accounting period that falls before that date.

18.2

If a company makes an election under section  1179B (1)  of CTA 2009 in its
company tax return for an accounting period beginning on or after 1 January
2024, the relevant existing regime does not apply in relation to that
accounting period or any subsequent accounting period, subject to sub-
paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) .

18.3

If a company makes an election under section  1179B (1)  of CTA 2009 in its
company tax return for an accounting period beginning on or before but ending
after the relevant closure date, it may further elect in the return for sub-
paragraph  (4)  to apply.

18.4

If it does so—

18.4.a

Part  14A  of CTA 2009 applies further to the election under section  1179B
(1)  of CTA 2009 only in respect of the portion of the accounting period that
falls after the relevant closure date, and

18.4.b

the relevant existing regime applies in respect of the portion of the
accounting period that falls on or before that date.

18.5

Where, by virtue of this paragraph, different Parts of CTA 2009 apply in
respect of different portions of an accounting period, the portions are to be
treated as separate accounting periods for the purposes of—

18.5.a

those Parts, and

18.5.b

paragraphs  19  to  24  (but not for other corporation tax purposes).

18.6

For the purposes of this paragraph—

18.6.a

the “ relevant existing regime ” means—

18.6.a.i

Part 15 of CTA 2009, if the election under section  1179B (1)  of that Act
relates to a film;

18.6.a.ii

Part 15A of CTA 2009, if the election under section  1179B (1)  of that Act
relates to a television programme;

18.6.a.iii

Part 15B of CTA 2009, if the election under section  1179B (1)  of that Act
relates to a video game;

18.6.b

references to the application of the relevant existing regime are to its
application in relation to that film, television programme or video game;

18.6.c

the “relevant closure date” is—

18.6.c.i

31 March 2025, in the case of a film or television programme whose principal
photography has not begun, or a video game whose production has not begun, by
the end of that date;

18.6.c.ii

31 March 2027, in any other case.

18.7

Nothing in this paragraph expands the circumstances in which the relevant
existing regime can apply (except by making it apply in respect of a portion
of an accounting period).

###### Productions not moving into new regime

19

19.1

Sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  apply if, but for this paragraph, Part 15, 15A
or 15B of CTA 2009 would apply to a company in relation to a film, television
programme or video game in respect of an accounting period beginning on or
before but ending after the relevant closure date.

19.2

The company is to be treated for the purposes of the Part in question as if,
at the end of the relevant closure date, it—

19.2.a

ceased the separate trade that it is treated as carrying on under that Part,
and

19.2.b

abandoned its activities in relation to the film, television programme or
video game.

19.3

No election under section  1179B (1)  of CTA 2009 may be made in relation to
the film, television programme or video game.

19.4

The date that is the relevant closure date for the purposes of paragraph  18
is also the relevant closure date for the purposes of this paragraph.

###### Continuity between regimes: taxation as separate trade

20

20.1

Sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (5)  apply if—

20.1.a

a company is treated as carrying on a separate trade under Part 15, 15A or 15B
of CTA 2009 in an accounting period (“AP1”),

20.1.b

in the next accounting period (“AP2”), the company is treated as carrying on a
separate trade under Part  14A  of CTA 2009, and

20.1.c

both trades relate to the same film, television programme or video game.

20.2

The separate trade that the company is treated as carrying on in AP2 is to be
treated as a continuation of the separate trade that the company was treated
as carrying on in AP1.

20.3

Accordingly, section  1179BA (2)  of CTA 2009 does not apply.

20.4

If a new period of account does not begin when AP2 begins, a new period of
account is to be treated as beginning at that time for the purposes of—

20.4.a

section 1189, 1216BA or 1217BA of CTA 2009 (as it applies in relation to AP1),
and

20.4.b

section  1179BB  of CTA 2009 (as it applies in relation to AP2).

20.5

For the purposes of section  1179BB (3)  of CTA 2009 as it applies in relation
to AP2, the references to the corresponding amounts for the previous period
are to be read as references to the corresponding amounts brought into account
under section 1189, 1216BA or 1217BA of that Act for AP1.

###### Continuity between regimes: calculation of expenditure credit

21

21.1

Sub-paragraphs  (3)  and  (4)  apply if—

21.1.a

a company is entitled to audiovisual expenditure credit or video game
expenditure credit under Chapter  3  of Part  14A  of CTA 2009 for an
accounting period, and

21.1.b

in respect of an earlier accounting period, the company was entitled to, and
claimed—

21.1.b.i

film tax relief under Chapter 3 of Part 15 of CTA 2009,

21.1.b.ii

television tax relief under Chapter 3 of Part 15A of that Act, or

21.1.b.iii

video games tax relief under Chapter 3 of Part 15 of that Act, and

21.1.c

both entitlements relate to the same film, television programme or video game.

21.2

In those sub-paragraphs, the earliest accounting period within sub-paragraph
(1) (a)  is “AP2” and the latest accounting period within sub-paragraph  (1)
(b)  is “AP1”.

21.3

For the purposes of step 1 in section  1179CA (1)  of CTA 2009 as it applies
in relation to AP2, the reference to relevant global expenditure includes the
amount that was “ qualifying expenditure incurred to date ” for the purposes
of section 1200(1) or (2), 1216CG(1) or (2) or 1217CG(1) or (2) of that Act in
relation to AP1.

21.4

For the purposes of step 4 in section  1179CA (1)  of CTA 2009 as it applies
in relation to AP2, the reference to the company’s qualifying expenditure to
date in the accounting period for which it was last entitled to, and claimed,
an expenditure credit is to be read as a reference to the amount taken as ‘E’
for the purposes of section 1200(1) or (2), 1216CG(1) or (2) or 1217CG(1) or
(2) of that Act in relation to AP1.

###### Continuity between regimes: British certification

22

22.1

Regulations made before the passing of this Act under a provision of CTA 2009
specified in the first column of the following table—

22.1.a

have effect for the purposes of  Part 14A  of CTA 2009 as if made under the
provision of that Part specified in the corresponding entry in the second
column of the table, and

22.1.b

are for those purposes to be read subject to any necessary modifications.

  TABLE       Existing provision in Part 15A or 15B of CTA 2009 New provision
in  Part 14A  of CTA 2009   Section 1216CB(2) Section  1179DK (1) Section
1216CC(7) Section  1179DL (7) Section 1217CB(2) Section  1179FD (1) Section
1217CC(7) Section  1179FE (7)

22.2

A certificate issued under section 1216CD or 1217CD of CTA 2009 continues to
have effect for the purposes of Part  14A  of that Act as if it were a
certificate issued under section  1179DM  or (as the case may be)  1179FF  in
that Part.

22.3

In relation to such a certificate, the references to revocation or ceasing to
be in force in sections 1216EA and 1217EA of CTA 2009 (as they continue to
apply in relation to accounting periods beginning before 1 April 2027) include
revocation or ceasing to be in force under section  1179DM  or (as the case
may be)  1179FF  of that Act.

22.4

The repeal of Parts 15, 15A and 15B of CTA 2009 does not affect the
requirement in section 1213(3), 1216EA(3) or 1217EA(3) of that Act so far as
it relates to entitlements in accounting periods beginning before 1 April 2027
(even if the “completion period” begins on or after that date).

22.5

In sections 1216EA(3) and (5) and 1217EA(3) and (5) of CTA 2009 (as they
continue to apply in relation to accounting periods beginning before 1 April
2027), the references to a final certificate include reference to a final
certificate issued under section  1179DM  or (as the case may be)  1179FF  of
that Act.

###### Continuity between regimes: UK expenditure (films and television programmes)

23

The repeal of Parts 15 and 15A of CTA 2009 does not affect the requirement in
section 1214(3) or 1216EB(3) of that Act, so far as it relates to entitlements
in accounting periods beginning before 1 April 2027 (even if the “completion
period” begins on or after that date).

###### Transition of video games from European expenditure condition to UK expenditure condition

24

24.1

Sub-paragraphs  (3)  and  (4)  apply if—

24.1.a

a company makes an election under section  1179B (1)  in relation to a video
game in its company tax return for an accounting period (“the opt-in period”),

24.1.b

no earlier accounting period was the completion period, and

24.1.c

in an earlier accounting period, the company was entitled to, and claimed,
special video games relief in respect of that video game.

24.2

In this paragraph, “special video games relief” and “completion period” have
the meanings given by section 1217E(1) of CTA 2009.

24.3

Subsections (3) and (4) of section 1217EB of CTA 2009 apply as if the video
game had been completed at the end of the accounting period preceding the opt-
in period (and, accordingly, as if that period were the completion period).

24.4

In section  1179FH  of CTA 2009 as it applies in relation to the video game,
the references to core expenditure are to be read as limited to core
expenditure incurred in or after the opt-in period.

###### Transfer of terminal losses between productions in existing and new regimes

25

25.1

In section  1179BG (1) (a)  of CTA 2009, the reference to the separate
production trade is to be read as including reference to a separate trade
carried on under Part 15, 15A or 15B of CTA 2009.

25.2

Section  1179BG (1) (d)  of CTA 2009 is to be taken as satisfied where—

25.2.a

the ceased trade was carried on under Part 15 or 15A of CTA 2009 and the other
trade relates to a film or television programme, or

25.2.b

the ceased trade was carried on under Part 15B of CTA 2009 and the other trade
relates to a video game.

25.3

Paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 1211(1) of CTA 2009 are to be taken as
satisfied where a company ceases to carry on a separate production trade under
Part  14A  of CTA 2009 in relation to a film (and that company and that trade
are respectively “company A” and “trade X” in the resulting application of
section 1211).

25.4

Paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 1216DC(1) of CTA 2009 are to be taken as
satisfied where a company ceases to carry on a separate production trade under
Part  14A  of CTA 2009 in relation to a television programme (and that company
and that trade are respectively “company A” and “trade X” in the resulting
application of section 1216DC).

25.5

Paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 1217DC(1) of CTA 2009 are to be taken as
satisfied where a company ceases to carry on a separate production trade under
Part  14A  of CTA 2009 in relation to a video game (and that company and that
trade are respectively “company A” and “trade X” in the resulting application
of section 1217DC).

  Theatrical productions

Section  4

##### Amendments of Part 15C of CTA 2009

###### Introduction

1

Part 15C of CTA 2009 (theatrical productions) is amended as follows.

###### Meaning of “theatrical production”

2

2.1

Section 1217FA (meaning of “ theatrical production ”) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (2)—

2.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “relevant” substitute  “other” ;

2.2.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

2.2.b.a

the primary focus of the play, opera, musical or dramatic piece is the
depiction of a story, or a number of related or unrelated stories, through the
playing of roles by performers (whether actors, singers, dancers or others),

;

2.2.c

after paragraph (ba) (but before the following “and”) insert—

2.2.c.bb

it is reasonable to expect that the main purpose of the audience members will
be to observe the performance (rather than, for example, to undertake tasks
facilitated or accompanied by the performance),

.

2.3

Omit subsection (3A).

2.4

Those amendments have effect in relation to a theatrical production the
production phase of which begins on or after 1 April 2024.

###### Meaning of “core expenditure”

3

3.1

In section 1217GC(2) (expenditure that is not “core expenditure” on theatrical
production), in paragraph (a), for “or storage” substitute  “, storage, or the
provision of incidental goods or services to members of the audience” .

3.2

That amendment has effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Provision to emphasise that capital expenditure does not generally qualify for relief

4

In section 1217IC (costs of theatrical production), in subsection (3), at the
end insert—

(As to other capital expenditure, see section 53 and subsection (2).)

###### UK expenditure threshold to replace EEA expenditure threshold

5

5.1

In section 1217GB (European expenditure condition)—

5.1.a

in the heading, for “European” substitute  “UK” ;

5.1.b

in subsection (1)—

5.1.b.i

for “ European ” (in both places it occurs) substitute  “UK” ;

5.1.b.ii

for “25%” substitute  “10%” ;

5.1.c

for subsection (2) substitute—

5.1.c.2

In this Part “ UK expenditure ” means expenditure on goods or services that
are used or consumed in the United Kingdom.

;

5.1.d

in subsection (3), for “European and non-European expenditure” substitute
“expenditure that is and is not UK expenditure” ;

5.1.e

in subsection (5), for “European” substitute  “UK” .

5.2

In each of the following provisions, for “ European ” (in each place it
occurs) substitute  “UK” —

5.2.a

section 1217G(1)(b) (conditions for production to qualify for relief);

5.2.b

section 1217N(2) (provisional satisfaction of European expenditure condition);

5.2.c

section 1217NA(1), (2) and (3) (European expenditure condition provisionally
satisfied not later satisfied).

5.3

In section 1217OB (defined terms)—

5.3.a

omit the definitions of “European expenditure” and “European expenditure
condition”;

5.3.b

at the end insert—

      “ UK expenditure ” has the meaning given by section 1217GB;           “
UK expenditure condition ” has the meaning given by section 1217GB.

5.4

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions)—

5.4.a

omit the entries for “European expenditure (in Part 15C)” and “European
expenditure condition (in Part 15C)”;

5.4.b

at the appropriate places insert—

      UK expenditure (in Part 15C) section 1217GB(2)

;

      UK expenditure condition (in Part 15C) section 1217GB(1)

.

5.5

For transitional provision in relation to this paragraph, see paragraph  11 .

###### EEA expenditure not to qualify for relief

6

6.1

In section 1217J(2) and (3) (amount of relief for theatrical production), for
“European” substitute  “UK” .

6.2

For transitional provision in relation to this paragraph, see paragraph  12 .

###### Profit element of non-arm's-length payments to connected parties not to qualify for relief

7

7.1

Section 1217JA (expenditure on theatrical productions that qualifies for
relief) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)(b), after “(2)” insert  “or  (3) ” .

7.3

After subsection (2) insert—

7.3.3

Expenditure is excluded to the extent that it represents connected party
profit, unless subsection  (5)  applies.

7.3.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , expenditure represents connected party
profit—

7.3.4.a

if it is a payment to a person (“ C ”) in exchange for something supplied by
that person,

7.3.4.b

if the company is connected with C, and

7.3.4.c

if, and to the extent that, the amount of the payment exceeds the expenditure
incurred by C in supplying that thing.

7.3.5

This subsection applies if the amount of the payment is no more than would
have been the case had the transaction been entered into at arm’s length.

7.3.6

A transaction would have been entered into “at arm’s length” if it made “the
arm’s length provision” within the meaning of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (and for
this purpose any limitation on the application of that Part is to be
disregarded).

7.3.7

Subsections  (8)  and  (9)  apply if—

7.3.7.a

the supply by C to the production company is one of a sequence of transactions
in which the thing supplied has been supplied by one person to another, and

7.3.7.b

either—

7.3.7.b.i

each transacting party in the sequence is connected to at least one other
transacting party in the sequence, or

7.3.7.b.ii

each transaction in the sequence is entered into in furtherance of a single
scheme or arrangement (of whatever kind, and whether or not legally
enforceable).

7.3.8

The reference to C in subsection  (4) (c)  is to be read as a reference to the
supplier in the first transaction in the sequence.

7.3.9

The reference to the transaction in subsection  (5)  is to be read as
including each transaction in the sequence.

7.3.10

In this section, “ payment ” includes any transfer of value.

7.4

Those amendments have effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Amendment of R&D exclusion

8

8.1

In section 1217JA (expenditure qualifying for theatre relief), for subsection
(2) substitute—

8.1.a

in paragraph (a), for “is entitled to” substitute  “would be able to claim” ;

8.1.b

in paragraph (b), for “has obtained” substitute  “would be able to claim” .

8.2

Those amendments have effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Restriction where tax liabilities outstanding: meaning of “payment period”

9

In section 1217KB (payment in respect of theatre tax credit), after subsection
(4) insert—

9.4A

For the purposes of subsection (4), a “payment period” is—

9.4A.a

in relation to PAYE regulations or Class 1 national insurance contributions, a
period—

9.4A.a.i

which ends on the fifth day of a month, and

9.4A.a.ii

for which the company is liable to account for income tax and national
insurance contributions to an officer of Revenue and Customs;

9.4A.b

in relation to section 966 of ITA 2007, a period for which the company is
required to make a return as described in section 969(1)(b) of that Act.

###### Relief not to be available for companies in insolvency

10

10.1

After section 1217KC insert—

############ Companies in insolvency

############# No claim if company in administration or liquidation

10.1.1217KD

10.1.1217KD.1

A company may not make a claim under section 1217H or section 1217K at a time
when it is in administration or liquidation.

10.1.1217KD.2

For the purposes of this section, a company is in administration if—

10.1.1217KD.2.a

it is in administration under Part 2 of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Part 3 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

10.1.1217KD.2.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

10.1.1217KD.3

For the purposes of this section, a company is in liquidation if—

10.1.1217KD.3.a

it is in liquidation within the meaning of section 247 of that Act or Article
6 of that Order, or

10.1.1217KD.3.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

10.2

That amendment has effect in relation to claims made on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Changes from European to UK expenditure: transitional provision

###### Transitional provision in relation to paragraph 

11

11.1

This paragraph makes transitional provision in connection with paragraph  5 .

11.2

The amendments made by that paragraph do not apply in relation to a theatrical
production if—

11.2.a

it has entered production before 1 April 2024, and

11.2.b

the separate theatrical trade in respect of it ceases before 1 April 2025.

11.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies if—

11.3.a

a theatrical production has entered production before 1 April 2024,

11.3.b

the separate theatrical trade in respect of the production continues on or
after 1 April 2025,

11.3.c

the production company’s company tax return for the first accounting period
that ends on or after 1 April 2025 is accompanied by a statement of the amount
of the core expenditure on the theatrical production incurred before 1 April
2025 that is European expenditure, and

11.3.d

that statement shows that, in respect of core expenditure incurred before 1
April 2025, the European expenditure condition is met.

11.4

The company’s entitlement to—

11.4.a

an additional deduction under section 1217H of CTA 2009, or

11.4.b

a tax credit under section 1217K of that Act,

is unaffected by a failure to meet the UK expenditure condition so far as the
entitlement derives from expenditure incurred before 1 April 2025.

11.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (4) , an entitlement to a tax credit under
section 1217H of CTA 2009 derives from expenditure incurred before 1 April
2025 to the extent that it would arise if only costs incurred and income
received before that date were taken into account in calculating the
surrenderable loss of the company for the purposes of section 1217KA of that
Act.

11.6

Sub-paragraph  (7)  applies in relation to a theatrical production in respect
of which the separate theatrical trade continues on or after 1 April 2025.

11.7

The reference in section 1217NA(1) of CTA 2009, as amended by paragraph  5 ,
to a statement having been made under section 1217N(2) of that Act includes
reference to a statement having been made in relation to the European
expenditure condition under that provision before it was amended by paragraph
5 .

11.8

But the application of section 1217NA(1) of CTA 2009 as so amended is subject
to sub-paragraph  (4)  (where that sub-paragraph applies).

11.9

In this paragraph—

      “ theatrical production ”, “ separate theatrical trade ”, “ production
company ” and “ core expenditure ” have the same meanings as in Part 15C of
CTA 2009;           “ UK expenditure condition ” has the same meaning as in
that Part after the amendments made by paragraph  5 ;           “ European
expenditure ” and “European expenditure condition” have the same meanings as
in that Part before the amendments made by paragraph  5 .

11.10

For the purposes of this paragraph, a theatrical production “enters
production” when core expenditure is first incurred on it.

###### Transitional provision in relation to paragraph 

12

12.1

This paragraph makes transitional provision in relation to paragraph  6 .

12.2

The amendments made by that paragraph have effect in relation to accounting
periods ending on or after 1 April 2024.

12.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies in a case where expenditure incurred before 1
April 2024 is to be taken into account as qualifying expenditure for the
purposes of section 1217J of CTA 2009 (amount of relief for theatrical
production).

12.4

The references in subsections (2) and (3) of that section (as amended by
paragraph  6 ) to so much of the qualifying expenditure incurred to date as is
UK expenditure are to be read as references to so much of the qualifying
expenditure incurred to date as—

12.4.a

has been incurred before 1 April 2024 and is European expenditure, or

12.4.b

has been incurred on or after that date and is UK expenditure.

12.5

But if the theatrical production in relation to which sub-paragraph  (4)
applies has entered production before 1 April 2024, the production company may
elect for that sub-paragraph to have effect in relation to that production as
if “2025” were substituted for  “2024” .

12.6

In this paragraph—

      “ theatrical production ”, “ production company ” and “ core expenditure
” have the same meanings as in Part 15C of CTA 2009;           “ UK
expenditure ” has the same meaning as in that Part after the amendments made
by paragraph  5 ;           “ European expenditure ” has the same meaning as
in that Part before the amendments made by paragraph  5 .

12.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (5) , a theatrical production “enters
production” when core expenditure is first incurred on it.

  Orchestral concerts

Section  5

##### Amendments of Part 15D of CTA 2009

###### Introduction

1

Part 15D of CTA 2009 (orchestra tax relief) is amended as follows.

###### Time of election for orchestral concerts to be treated as a series

2

2.1

In section 1217QA (election for orchestral concerts to be treated as a
series), in subsection (1), after “Customs” insert

—

2.1.a

before the date on which the company first delivers a company tax return for a
period in relation to which a concert in the series falls to be treated in
accordance with section 1217Q, or

2.1.b

if later,

.

2.2

That amendment has effect in relation to a series of concerts the first
concert in which takes place on or after 1 April 2024.

###### Meaning of “core expenditure”

3

3.1

In section 1217RC(3) (expenditure that is not “core expenditure” on orchestral
concert), in paragraph (a), for “or storage” substitute  “, storage, or the
provision of incidental goods or services to members of the audience” .

3.2

That amendment has effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Provision to emphasise that capital expenditure does not generally qualify for relief

4

In section 1217QD (costs of orchestral concert), in subsection (3), at the end
insert—

(As to other capital expenditure, see section 53 and subsection (2).)

###### UK expenditure threshold to replace EEA expenditure threshold

5

5.1

In section 1217RB (European expenditure condition)—

5.1.a

in the heading, for “European” substitute  “UK” ;

5.1.b

in subsection (1)—

5.1.b.i

for “ European ” (in both places it occurs) substitute  “UK” ;

5.1.b.ii

for “25%” substitute  “10%” ;

5.1.c

for subsection (2) substitute—

5.1.c.2

In this Part “ UK expenditure ” means expenditure on goods or services that
are used or consumed in the United Kingdom.

;

5.1.d

in subsection (3), for “European and non-European expenditure” substitute
“expenditure that is and is not UK expenditure” ;

5.1.e

in subsection (5), for “European” substitute  “UK” .

5.2

In each of the following provisions, for “ European ” (in each place it
occurs) substitute  “UK” —

5.2.a

section 1217RA(2)(d) and (4)(d) (need to meet European expenditure condition
to qualify for relief);

5.2.b

section 1217T(2) (provisional satisfaction of European expenditure condition);

5.2.c

section 1217TA(1), (2) and (3) (European expenditure condition provisionally
satisfied not later satisfied).

5.3

In section 1217U (defined terms)—

5.3.a

omit the definitions of “European expenditure” and “European expenditure
condition”;

5.3.b

at the end insert—

      “ UK expenditure ” has the meaning given by section 1217RB(2);
“ UK expenditure condition ” has the meaning given by section 1217RB(1).

5.4

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions)—

5.4.a

omit the entries for “European expenditure (in Part 15D)” and “European
expenditure condition (in Part 15D)”;

5.4.b

at the appropriate places insert—

      UK expenditure (in Part 15D) section 1217RB(2)

;

      UK expenditure condition (in Part 15D) section 1217RB(1)

.

5.5

For transitional provision in relation to this paragraph, see paragraph  11 .

###### EEA expenditure not to qualify for relief

6

6.1

In section 1217RE(2) and (3) (amount of relief for orchestral concert), for
“European” substitute  “UK” .

6.2

For transitional provision in relation to this paragraph, see paragraph  12 .

###### Profit element of non-arm's-length payments to connected parties not to qualify for relief

7

7.1

Section 1217RF (expenditure that qualifies for orchestra tax relief) is
amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)—

7.2.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (a);

7.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

7.2.b.c

is not excluded by subsection  (3) .

7.3

After subsection (2) insert—

7.3.3

Expenditure is excluded to the extent that it represents connected party
profit, unless subsection  (5)  applies.

7.3.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , expenditure represents connected party
profit—

7.3.4.a

if it is a payment to a person (“ C ”) in exchange for something supplied,
transferred or done by that person,

7.3.4.b

if the company is connected with C, and

7.3.4.c

if, and to the extent that, the amount of the payment exceeds the expenditure
incurred by C in supplying, transferring or doing that thing.

7.3.5

This subsection applies if the amount of the payment is no more than would
have been the case had the transaction been entered into at arm’s length.

7.3.6

A transaction would have been entered into “at arm’s length” if it made “the
arm’s length provision” within the meaning of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (and for
this purpose any limitation on the application of that Part is to be
disregarded).

7.3.7

Subsections  (8)  and  (9)  apply if—

7.3.7.a

the supply by C to the company is one of a sequence of transactions in which
the thing supplied has been supplied by one person to another, and

7.3.7.b

either—

7.3.7.b.i

each transacting party in the sequence is connected to at least one other
transacting party in the sequence, or

7.3.7.b.ii

each transaction in the sequence is entered into in furtherance of a single
scheme or arrangement (of whatever kind, and whether or not legally
enforceable).

7.3.8

The reference to C in subsection  (4) (c)  is to be read as a reference to the
supplier in the first transaction in the sequence.

7.3.9

The reference to the transaction in subsection  (5)  is to be read as
including each transaction in the sequence.

7.3.10

In this section, “ payment ” includes any transfer of value.

7.4

Those amendments have effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Amendment of exclusion for other reliefs

8

8.1

In section 1217RF(2) (exclusion of expenditure eligible for other creative
sector relief)—

8.1.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “(assuming” to the end
substitute  “the company would be able to claim” ;

8.1.b

before paragraph (a) insert—

8.1.b.za

an R&D expenditure credit under Chapter 6A of Part 3,

8.1.b.zb

relief under Part 13 (relief for expenditure on research and development),

.

8.2

Those amendments have effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Restriction where tax liabilities outstanding: meaning of “payment period”

9

In section 1217RI (payment in respect of orchestra tax credit), after
subsection (4) insert—

9.4A

For the purposes of subsection (4), a “payment period” is—

9.4A.a

in relation to PAYE regulations or Class 1 national insurance contributions, a
period—

9.4A.a.i

which ends on the fifth day of a month, and

9.4A.a.ii

for which the company is liable to account for income tax and national
insurance contributions to an officer of Revenue and Customs;

9.4A.b

in relation to section 966 of ITA 2007, a period for which the company is
required to make a return as described in section 969(1)(b) of that Act.

###### Relief not to be available for companies in insolvency

10

10.1

After section 1217RK insert—

############ Companies in insolvency

############# No claim if company in administration or liquidation

10.1.1217RKA

10.1.1217RKA.1

A company may not make a claim under section 1217RD or section 1217RG at a
time when it is in administration or liquidation.

10.1.1217RKA.2

For the purposes of this section, a company is in administration if—

10.1.1217RKA.2.a

it is in administration under Part 2 of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Part 3 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

10.1.1217RKA.2.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

10.1.1217RKA.3

For the purposes of this section, a company is in liquidation if—

10.1.1217RKA.3.a

it is in liquidation within the meaning of section 247 of that Act or Article
6 of that Order, or

10.1.1217RKA.3.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

10.2

That amendment has effect in relation to claims made on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Changes from European to UK expenditure: transitional provision

###### Transitional provision in relation to paragraph 

11

11.1

This paragraph makes transitional provision in relation to paragraph  5 .

11.2

The amendments made by that paragraph do not apply in relation to an
orchestral concert or concert series if—

11.2.a

it has entered production before 1 April 2024, and

11.2.b

the separate orchestral trade in respect of it ceases before 1 April 2025.

11.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies if—

11.3.a

an orchestral concert or concert series has entered production before 1 April
2024,

11.3.b

the separate orchestral trade in respect of the concert or series continues on
or after 1 April 2025,

11.3.c

the production company’s company tax return for the first accounting period
that ends on or after 1 April 2025 is accompanied by a statement of the amount
of the core expenditure on the concert or series incurred before 1 April 2025
that is European expenditure, and

11.3.d

that statement shows that, in respect of core expenditure incurred before 1
April 2025, the European expenditure condition is met.

11.4

The company’s entitlement to—

11.4.a

an additional deduction under section 1217RD of CTA 2009, or

11.4.b

a tax credit under section 1217RG of that Act,

is unaffected by a failure to meet the UK expenditure condition so far as the
entitlement derives from expenditure incurred before 1 April 2025.

11.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (4) , an entitlement to a tax credit under
section 1217RG of CTA 2009 derives from expenditure incurred before 1 April
2025 to the extent that it would arise if only costs incurred and income
received before that date were taken into account in calculating the
surrenderable loss of the company for the purposes of section 1217RH of that
Act.

11.6

Sub-paragraph  (7)  applies in relation to an orchestral concert or concert
series in respect of which the separate orchestral trade continues on or after
1 April 2025.

11.7

The reference in section 1217TA(1) of CTA 2009, as amended by paragraph  5 (2)
(c) , to a statement having been made under section 1217T(2) of that Act
includes reference to a statement having been made under that provision in
relation to the European expenditure condition.

11.8

But the application of section 1217TA(1) of CTA 2009 as so amended is subject
to sub-paragraph  (4)  (where that sub-paragraph applies).

11.9

In this paragraph—

      “ orchestral concert ”, “ concert series ”, “ separate orchestral trade
”, “ production company ” and “ core expenditure ” have the same meanings as
in Part 15D of CTA 2009;           “ UK expenditure condition ” has the same
meaning as in that Part after the amendments made by paragraph  5 ;
“ European expenditure ” and “European expenditure condition” have the same
meanings as in that Part before the amendments made by paragraph  5 .

11.10

For the purposes of this paragraph, an orchestral concert or concert series
“enters production” when core expenditure is first incurred on it.

###### Transitional provision in relation to paragraph 

12

12.1

This paragraph makes transitional provision in relation to paragraph  6 .

12.2

The amendments made by that paragraph have effect in relation to accounting
periods ending on or after 1 April 2024.

12.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies in a case where expenditure incurred before 1
April 2024 is to be taken into account as qualifying expenditure for the
purposes of section 1217RE of CTA 2009 (amount of relief for orchestral
concert).

12.4

The references in subsections (2) and (3) of that section (as amended by
paragraph  6 ) to so much of the qualifying expenditure incurred to date as is
UK expenditure are to be read as references to so much of the qualifying
expenditure incurred to date as—

12.4.a

has been incurred before 1 April 2024 and is European expenditure, or

12.4.b

has been incurred on or after that date and is UK expenditure.

12.5

But if the orchestral concert or concert series in relation to which sub-
paragraph  (4)  applies has entered production before 1 April 2024, the
production company may elect for that sub-paragraph to have effect in relation
to that concert or series as if “2025” were substituted for  “2024” .

12.6

In this paragraph—

      “ orchestral concert ”, “ concert series ”, “ production company ” and “
core expenditure ” have the same meanings as in Part 15D of CTA 2009;
“ UK expenditure ” has the same meaning as in that Part after the amendments
made by paragraph  5 ;           “ European expenditure ” has the same meaning
as in that Part before the amendments made by paragraph  5 .

12.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (5) , an orchestral concert or concert
series “enters production” when core expenditure is first incurred on it.

  Museum and gallery exhibitions

Section  6

##### Amendments of Part 15E of CTA 2009

###### Introduction

1

Part 15E of CTA 2009 (museum and gallery exhibition tax relief) is amended as
follows.

###### Museum and gallery exhibitions not to be wholly remote

2

2.1

In section 1218ZAA (meaning of “ exhibition ”), after subsection (4) insert—

2.1.4A

“ Admitted ” means admitted in person to the venue where the objects or works
are displayed.

2.2

That amendment has effect in relation to an exhibition only where the
production phase begins on or after 1 April 2024.

###### Meaning of “core expenditure”

3

3.1

In section 1218ZCD(7) (expenditure that is not “core expenditure” on museum or
gallery exhibition), in paragraph (a), for “and promotional events” substitute
“, promotional events, and the provision of incidental goods or services to
visitors” .

3.2

That amendment has effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### UK expenditure threshold to replace European expenditure threshold

4

4.1

In section 1218ZCC (European expenditure condition)—

4.1.a

in the heading, for “European” substitute  “UK” ;

4.1.b

in subsection (1)—

4.1.b.i

for “ European ” (in both places it occurs) substitute  “UK” ;

4.1.b.ii

for “25%” substitute  “10%” ;

4.1.c

for subsection (2) substitute—

4.1.c.2

In this Part “ UK expenditure ” means expenditure on goods or services that
are used or consumed in the United Kingdom.

;

4.1.d

in subsection (3), for “European and non-European expenditure” substitute
“expenditure that is and is not UK expenditure” ;

4.1.e

in subsection (5), for “European” substitute  “UK” .

4.2

In each of the following provisions, for “ European ” (in each place it
occurs) substitute  “UK” —

4.2.a

section 1218ZCA(5) (need to meet European expenditure condition to qualify for
relief);

4.2.b

section 1218ZE(2) (provisional satisfaction of European expenditure
condition);

4.2.c

section 1218ZEA(1), (2) and (3) (European expenditure condition provisionally
satisfied not later satisfied).

4.3

In section 1218ZFA (defined terms)—

4.3.a

omit the definitions of “European expenditure” and “European expenditure
condition”;

4.3.b

at the end insert—

      “ UK expenditure ” has the meaning given by section 1218ZCC(2);
“ UK expenditure condition ” has the meaning given by section 1218ZCC(1).

4.4

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions)—

4.4.a

omit the entries for “European expenditure (in Part 15E)” and “European
expenditure condition (in Part 15E)”;

4.4.b

at the appropriate places insert—

      UK expenditure (in Part 15E) section 1218ZCC(2)

;

      UK expenditure condition (in Part 15E) section 1218ZCC(1)

.

4.5

For transitional provision in relation to this paragraph, see paragraph  10 .

###### EEA expenditure not to qualify for relief

5

5.1

In section 1218ZCF(2) and (3) (amount of relief for museum or gallery
exhibition), for “European” substitute  “UK” .

5.2

For transitional provision in relation to this paragraph, see paragraph  11 .

###### Profit element of non-arm's-length payments to connected parties not to qualify for relief

6

6.1

Section 1218ZCG (expenditure that qualifies for museums and galleries
exhibition tax relief) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) (but before the following “and”)
insert—

6.2.ba

is not excluded by subsection  (2A) ,

.

6.3

After subsection (2) insert—

6.3.2A

Expenditure is excluded to the extent that it represents connected party
profit, unless subsection  (2C)  applies.

6.3.2B

For the purposes of subsection  (2A) , expenditure represents connected party
profit—

6.3.2B.a

if it is a payment to a person (“ C ”) in exchange for something supplied,
transferred or done by that person,

6.3.2B.b

if the company is connected with C, and

6.3.2B.c

if, and to the extent that, the amount of the payment exceeds the expenditure
incurred by C in supplying, transferring or doing that thing.

6.3.2C

This subsection applies if the amount of the payment is no more than would
have been the case had the transaction been entered into at arm’s length.

6.3.2D

A transaction would have been entered into “at arm’s length” if it made “the
arm’s length provision” within the meaning of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (and for
this purpose any limitation on the application of that Part is to be
disregarded).

6.3.2E

Subsections  (2F)  and  (2G)  apply if—

6.3.2E.a

the supply by C to the company is one of a sequence of transactions in which
the thing supplied has been supplied by one person to another, and

6.3.2E.b

either—

6.3.2E.b.i

each transacting party in the sequence is connected to at least one other
transacting party in the sequence, or

6.3.2E.b.ii

each transaction in the sequence is entered into in furtherance of a single
scheme or arrangement (of whatever kind, and whether or not legally
enforceable).

6.3.2F

The reference to C in subsection  (2B) (c)  is to be read as a reference to
the supplier in the first transaction in the sequence.

6.3.2G

The reference to the transaction in subsection  (2C)  is to be read as
including each transaction in the sequence.

6.3.2H

In this section, “ payment ” includes any transfer of value.

6.4

Those amendments have effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Amendment of exclusion for R&D relief and other creative sector reliefs

7

7.1

In section 1218ZCG(2) (exclusion of expenditure eligible for R&D relief or
other creative sector relief), in the words before paragraph (a), for the
words from “(assuming” to the end substitute  “the company would be able to
claim” .

7.2

That amendment has effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1
April 2024.

###### Restriction where tax liabilities outstanding: meaning of “payment period”

8

In section 1218ZCJ (payment in respect of museums and galleries exhibition tax
credit), after subsection (4) insert—

8.4A

For the purposes of subsection (4), a “payment period” is—

8.4A.a

in relation to PAYE regulations or Class 1 national insurance contributions, a
period—

8.4A.a.i

which ends on the fifth day of a month, and

8.4A.a.ii

for which the company is liable to account for income tax and national
insurance contributions to an officer of Revenue and Customs;

8.4A.b

in relation to section 966 of ITA 2007, a period for which the company is
required to make a return as described in section 969(1)(b) of that Act.

###### Relief not to be available for companies in insolvency

9

9.1

After section 1218ZCL insert—

############ Companies in insolvency

############# No claim if company in administration or liquidation

9.1.1218ZCLA

9.1.1218ZCLA.1

A company may not make a claim under section 1218ZCE or section 1218ZCH at a
time when it is in administration or liquidation.

9.1.1218ZCLA.2

For the purposes of this section, a company is in administration if—

9.1.1218ZCLA.2.a

it is in administration under Part 2 of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Part 3 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) , or

9.1.1218ZCLA.2.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

9.1.1218ZCLA.3

For the purposes of this section, a company is in liquidation if—

9.1.1218ZCLA.3.a

it is in liquidation within the meaning of section 247 of that Act or Article
6 of that Order, or

9.1.1218ZCLA.3.b

a corresponding situation under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom exists in relation to the company.

9.2

That amendment has effect in relation to claims made on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Changes from European to UK expenditure: transitional provision

###### Transitional provision in relation to paragraph 

10

10.1

This paragraph makes transitional provision in relation to paragraph  4 .

10.2

The amendments made by that paragraph do not have effect in relation to an
exhibition if—

10.2.a

it has entered production before 1 April 2024, and

10.2.b

the separate exhibition trade in respect of it ceases before 1 April 2025.

10.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies if—

10.3.a

an exhibition has entered production before 1 April 2024,

10.3.b

the separate exhibition trade in respect of the exhibition continues on or
after 1 April 2025,

10.3.c

the production company’s company tax return for the first accounting period
that ends on or after 1 April 2025 is accompanied by a statement of the amount
of the core expenditure on the exhibition incurred before 1 April 2025 that is
European expenditure, and

10.3.d

that statement shows that, in respect of core expenditure incurred before 1
April 2025, the European expenditure condition is met.

10.4

The company’s entitlement to—

10.4.a

an additional deduction under section 1218ZCE of CTA 2009, or

10.4.b

a tax credit under section 1218ZCH of that Act,

is unaffected by a failure to meet the UK expenditure condition so far as the
entitlement derives from expenditure incurred before 1 April 2025.

10.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (4) , an entitlement to a tax credit under
section 1218ZCH of CTA 2009 derives from expenditure incurred before 1 April
2025 to the extent that it would arise if only costs incurred and income
received before that date were taken into account in calculating the
surrenderable loss of the company for the purposes of section 1218ZCI of that
Act.

10.6

Sub-paragraph  (7)  applies in relation to an exhibition in respect of which
the separate exhibition trade continues on or after 1 April 2025.

10.7

The reference in section 1218ZEA(1) of CTA 2009, as amended by paragraph  4
(2) (c) , to a statement having been made under section 1218ZE(2) of that Act
includes reference to a statement having been made under that provision in
relation to the European expenditure condition.

10.8

But the application of section 1218ZEA(1) of CTA 2009 as so amended is subject
to sub-paragraph  (4)  (where that sub-paragraph applies).

10.9

In this paragraph—

      “ exhibition ”, “ separate exhibition trade ”, “ production company ”
and “ core expenditure ” have the same meanings as in Part 15E of CTA 2009;
“ UK expenditure ” and “UK expenditure condition” have the same meanings as in
that Part after the amendments made by paragraph  4 ;           “ European
expenditure ” and “European expenditure condition” have the same meanings as
in that Part before the amendments made by paragraph  4 .

10.10

For the purposes of this paragraph, an exhibition “enters production” when
core expenditure is first incurred on it.

###### Transitional provision in relation to paragraph 

11

11.1

This paragraph makes transitional provision in relation to paragraph  5 .

11.2

The amendments made by that paragraph have effect in relation to accounting
periods ending on or after 1 April 2024.

11.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies in a case where expenditure incurred before 1
April 2024 is to be taken into account as qualifying expenditure for the
purposes of section 1218ZCF of CTA 2009 (amount of relief for museum or
gallery exhibition).

11.4

The references in subsections (2) and (3) of that section (as amended by
paragraph  5 ) to so much of the qualifying expenditure incurred to date as is
UK expenditure are to be read as references to so much of the qualifying
expenditure incurred to date as—

11.4.a

has been incurred before 1 April 2024 and is European expenditure, or

11.4.b

has been incurred on or after that date and is UK expenditure.

11.5

But if the exhibition in relation to which sub-paragraph  (4)  applies has
entered production before 1 April 2024, the production company may elect for
that sub-paragraph to have effect in relation to that exhibition as if “2025”
were substituted for  “2024” .

11.6

In this paragraph—

      “ exhibition ”, “ production company ” and “ core expenditure ” have the
same meanings as in Part 15E of CTA 2009;           “ UK expenditure ” has the
same meaning as in that Part after the amendments made by paragraph  4 ;
“ European expenditure ” has the same meanings as in that Part before the
amendments made by paragraph  4 .

11.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (5) , an exhibition “enters production”
when core expenditure is first incurred on it.

  Administration of creative sector reliefs

Section  7

##### Power to recover overpayments

1

1.1

Paragraph 52 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (recovery of excessive payments) is
amended as follows.

1.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), for “paragraph”
substitute  “sub-paragraph” .

1.3

In sub-paragraph (2)—

1.3.a

for “This paragraph” substitute  “Sub-paragraph (1)” ;

1.3.b

omit paragraphs (bd) to (bi).

1.4

In sub-paragraph (2A), after paragraph (c) insert

, or

1.4.d

creative sector credit,

.

1.5

After sub-paragraph (2A) insert—

1.5.2B

In this paragraph, “ creative sector credit ” means—

1.5.2B.a

audiovisual expenditure credit or video game expenditure credit under Chapter
3  of Part  14A  of the Corporation Tax Act 2009,

1.5.2B.b

film tax credit under Part 15 of that Act,

1.5.2B.c

television tax credit under Part 15A of that Act,

1.5.2B.d

video game credit under Part 15B of that Act,

1.5.2B.e

theatre tax credit under Part 15C of that Act,

1.5.2B.f

orchestra tax credit under Part 15D of that Act, or

1.5.2B.g

museums and galleries exhibition credit under Part 15E of that Act.

1.6

In sub-paragraph (5)—

1.6.a

omit paragraphs (ae) and (ag) to (ak);

1.6.b

before paragraph (b) insert—

1.6.b.al

an amount of creative sector credit paid to a company for an accounting
period, or

;

1.6.c

in the words after paragraph (b), for the words from “the” to the end
substitute  “that accounting period” .

1.7

Those amendments have effect in relation to accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 April 2024.

##### Time limit for claims

2

2.1

In paragraph 83W(1) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (time limits for claims under
Parts 15 to 15E of CTA 2009), for the words from “first” to the end substitute

end of the period of—

2.1.a

two years beginning with the last day of the period of account to which the
claim relates, in a case where that period is not longer than 18 months, or

2.1.b

42 months beginning with the first day of the period of account to which the
claim relates, in any other case.

2.2

That amendment has effect in relation to accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 April 2024.

##### Supporting information

3

3.1

After paragraph 83W of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 insert—

########### Additional information to be provided in relation to claim

3.1.83WA

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
specify, in relation to a claim to which this Part of this Schedule applies—

3.1.83WA.a

information to be provided by the claimant company;

3.1.83WA.b

the form and manner in which, and the time by which, the information is to be
provided;

3.1.83WA.c

the consequences of failing to provide the information as required (which may
include the total or partial invalidity of the claim or a reduction of the
claimed relief).

3.2

That amendment has effect in relation to claims made on or after 1 April 2024.

  Real Estate Investment Trusts

Section 8

##### Amendment of CTA 2010

1

CTA 2010 is amended in accordance with  paragraphs 2  to  10 .

##### CoACS to be institutional investors

2

In Section 528 (conditions for company), in subsection (4A), after paragraph
(b) insert—

2.ba

a person acting on behalf of an authorised contractual scheme (within the
meaning given by section 237(3) of FISMA 2000) which is a co-ownership scheme
(within the meaning given by section 235A of that Act) that meets the genuine
diversity of ownership condition or the non-close condition;

.

##### Non-close condition

3

3.1

Section 528 is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (4)—

3.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “company” insert  “meets the non-
close condition.” , and

3.2.b

omit paragraphs (a) and (b).

3.3

After subsection (4B) insert—

3.3.4C

The non-close condition is met—

3.3.4C.a

in relation to a company, if—

3.3.4C.a.i

it is not a close company, or

3.3.4C.a.ii

it is a close company but only because it has an institutional investor as a
direct or indirect participator, and

3.3.4C.b

in relation to a person or scheme other than a company, if it would fall
within paragraph (a)(i) or (ii) if—

3.3.4C.b.i

the person’s business or the scheme were a company, and

3.3.4C.b.ii

the interests of persons in the business or scheme were shares in the company.

3.4

In subsection (5), for “subsection (4)(a)” substitute  “determining whether
the non-close condition is met” .

3.5

After subsection (5A) (as inserted by  paragraph 4 ) insert—

3.5.5B

For the purposes of subsection (4C)(a)(ii)—

3.5.5B.a

a person is a “direct participator” if the person is a participator for the
purposes of Part 10 of CTA 2010 (see section 454), and

3.5.5B.b

a person is an “indirect” participator in a company if the person has a share
or interest in the capital or income of the company through another body
corporate or other bodies corporate.

3.5.5C

In determining whether a person is an indirect participator—

3.5.5C.a

reference to having a share or interest in the capital or income of a company
through a body corporate is to be read in accordance with sub-paragraphs (9)
and (10) of paragraph 46 of Schedule 5AAA to TCGA 1992 (meaning of direct or
indirect participator), and

3.5.5C.b

a person is regarded for the purposes of those sub-paragraphs, and for the
purposes of subsection  (5B) (b)  of this section, as having a share or
interest in the capital or income of a company if the person would be a
participator in the company as a result of section 454(2) of CTA 2010.

3.6

Section 528 has effect, and is to be deemed always to have had effect, with
the amendments made by  this paragraph .

##### Certain institutional investors required to meet GDO or non-close condition

4

4.1

Section 528 is further amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (4A)—

4.2.a

in paragraph (a)—

4.2.a.i

in sub-paragraph (i), after “2000)” insert  “that meets the genuine diversity
of ownership condition (see section 528ZB(2)) or the non-close condition” ,
and

4.2.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “Act)” insert  “and that meets the genuine
diversity of ownership condition or the non-close condition” ,

4.2.b

in paragraph (b)—

4.2.b.i

in sub-paragraph (i), after “Act” insert  “and that meets the genuine
diversity of ownership condition or the non-close condition” ,

4.2.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “and” substitute  “that” , and

4.2.b.iii

in that sub-paragraph, after “2000)” insert  “and that meets the genuine
diversity of ownership condition or the non-close condition” ,

4.2.c

in paragraph (c), after “2000)” insert  “that meets the genuine diversity of
ownership condition or the non-close condition” , and

4.2.d

in paragraph (e), after “who” insert  “meets the non-close condition and who”
.

4.3

After subsection (4C) (as inserted by  paragraph 3 ) insert—

4.3.4D

But for the purposes of applying the non-close condition for the purpose of
any of paragraphs (a) to (c) of subsection (4A), subsection (4C) has effect as
if—

4.3.4D.a

paragraph (a)(ii) were omitted, and

4.3.4D.b

in paragraph (b), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), “or (ii)” were
omitted.

4.4

In subsection (5) (as amended by  paragraph 3 )—

4.4.a

the words from “a company” to the end become paragraph (a),

4.4.b

after that paragraph insert

, and

4.4.b.b

ignore paragraph (a) of section 442 (non-UK resident companies deemed not to
be close).

4.5

After subsection (5) insert—

4.5.5A

But subsection (5)(a) does not apply for the purpose of determining whether a
person acting in the course of a long term insurance business meets the non-
close condition.

4.6

After subsection (5C) (as inserted by  paragraph 3 ) insert—

4.6.5D

In determining whether a company is a close company for the purposes of the
non-close condition—

4.6.5D.a

the rights and powers of a person (“ A ”) are not to be attributed to another
person (“ P ”) merely because A is a partner of P for the purposes of any
attribution under section 451(4) (rights of a person's associates to be
attributed to the person etc in determining “control”), and

4.6.5D.b

a company (“ C ”) is not to be regarded as a close company only because a
person possesses or is entitled to acquire 50% or more of the voting power in
C as a result of being—

4.6.5D.b.i

a manager of a collective investment vehicle (within the meaning of Schedule
5AAA to TCGA 1992), or

4.6.5D.b.ii

a general partner in a limited partnership which is a collective investment
scheme.

4.7

In section 528ZA, in subsection (7), for the words from “which” to the end
substitute  “if a person acting on behalf of it would be an institutional
investor as a result of section 528(4A)(c)” .

4.8

In section 528ZB—

4.8.a

for the heading substitute  “Genuine diversity of ownership condition” ,

4.8.b

omit subsection (1),

4.8.c

omit subsection (5), and

4.8.d

in subsection (7), after “section” insert

—

      “ collective investment scheme ” has the meaning it has in section 235
of FISMA 2000;

.

4.9

In consequence of the other amendments made by  this paragraph , in Schedule
5AAA to TCGA 1992, in paragraph 46(3)(a), for “section 528(4A)(a), (b), (c),
(i) or (j)” substitute “section 528(4A)(i) or (j)“.

##### Paragraph 4: transitional provision

5

5.1

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies where—

5.1.a

immediately before the day on which this Act is passed, a company that is a
company UK REIT or the principal member of a group UK REIT, met the conditions
in section 528 of CTA 2010, and

5.1.b

the company ceases to meet one or more of those conditions on that day as a
result of one or more persons ceasing to be regarded as institutional
investors as a result of the amendments made by  paragraph 4 .

5.2

Part 12 of CTA 2010 has effect in relation to such a person for the purposes
of determining whether the company meets those conditions as if the amendments
made by  paragraph 4  had not been made for so long as the person’s interest
in the company as a proportion of all interests in the company—

5.2.a

does not increase as a result of the acquisition by the person of further
interests in the company, and

5.2.b

continuously remains relevant to the question of whether those conditions are
met.

5.3

Sub-paragraph (4)  applies where—

5.3.a

immediately before the day on which this Act is passed, a collective
investment vehicle, or a company that is not a collective investment vehicle,
(“the reliant entity”) relied on its having a qualifying investor as a direct
or indirect participator for the purpose of any provision of Schedule 5AAA to
TCGA 1992 (“a qualifying purpose”), and

5.3.b

the qualifying investor (“the former qualifying investor”) ceased to be a
qualifying investor a result of the amendments made by  paragraph 4 .

5.4

That Schedule has effect in relation to the former qualifying investor for a
qualifying purpose as if the amendments made by  paragraph 4  had not been
made for so long as—

5.4.a

the investor’s interest in the reliant entity as a proportion of all interests
in the entity does not increase as a result of the acquisition by the investor
of further interests in the reliant entity, and

5.4.b

the investor being a direct or indirect participator in the reliant entity
continuously remains relevant for at least one qualifying purpose.

5.5

Sub-paragraph (6)  applies when determining whether a collective investment
scheme constituted before the day on which this Act is passed meets the
genuine diversity of ownership condition for the purposes of any of paragraphs
(a) to (c) of section 528(4A).

5.6

Regulation 75(2) of the Offshore Funds (Tax) Regulations 2009 (including as it
applies for the purposes of regulation 75(5) of those Regulations) has effect,
for those purposes, as if it referred to a statement prepared by the manager
of the scheme (instead of the documents referred to in that paragraph) which—

5.6.a

is available to HMRC,

5.6.b

specifies the intended categories of investor when the scheme was marketed,

5.6.c

confirms that the interests in the scheme were made widely available, and

5.6.d

confirms that interests in the scheme were marketed and made available in
accordance with the requirements of regulation 75(4)(a) of those Regulations
(and that provision is to be read accordingly).

##### Insurance companies may be included in group UK REIT

6

6.1

Section 606 (meaning of group) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (2), omit paragraphs (b) and (c) (but not the “or” at the end of
paragraph (c)).

6.3

In subsection (5), omit the definitions of “insurance company” and “insurance
subsidiary”.

##### Property financing costs

7

7.1

Section 544 (meaning of “ property profits ” and “ property financing costs ”)
is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (3)(a), for “property rental business of members of the group”
substitute  “the group's property rental business in the United Kingdom” .

7.3

After subsection (3) insert—

7.3.3A

The reference in subsection (3)(a) to the group's property rental business in
the United Kingdom is a reference to—

7.3.3A.a

property rental business of UK members of the group, and

7.3.3A.b

UK property rental business of other members.

7.4

Section 544 has effect, and is to be deemed always to have had effect, with
the amendments made by  sub-paragraphs (2)  and  (3) .

7.5

After subsection (4) insert—

7.5.4A

But property financing costs do not (for the purposes of section 543) include
any expense for which a deduction would not be allowed in calculating profits
in accordance with section 599, other than an expense which is disallowed only
as a result of the application of Part 10 of TIOPA 2010 (corporate interest
restriction).

7.6

The amendment made by  sub-paragraph (5)  has effect for accounting periods
ending on or after 1 April 2023.

##### Single property rule

8

In section 529 (conditions as to property rental business)—

8.a

in subsection (2A)—

8.a.i

after “is” insert  “, or was at any time from the relevant time,” ,

8.a.ii

for “exceeds” substitute  “in excess of” , and

8.a.iii

omit “at the relevant time”, and

8.b

in subsection (2B)—

8.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “means” insert  “the later of”

8.b.ii

 for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

8.b.ii.a

entry, and

8.b.ii.b

when the property was acquired.

##### Disposal of rights or interests in UK property rich funds

9

9.1

Section 535A (disposals of rights or interests in UK property rich companies)
is amended as follows.

9.2

After subsection (7) insert—

9.2.7A

Any such reference also includes the disposal of a right or interest in a fund
(a “relevant fund”) that—

9.2.7A.a

is an authorised contractual scheme (within the meaning given by section
237(3) of FISMA 2000) which is a co-ownership scheme (within the meaning given
by section 235A of that Act), and

9.2.7A.b

is UK property rich as determined in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule
5AAA to TCGA (UK property rich collective investment vehicles etc).

9.3

In subsection (8) after “subsection (7)” insert  “or (7A)” .

##### Holders of excessive rights

10

10.1

In section 551 (tax consequences of distribution to holder of excessive
rights), in subsection (1)(a), for “(as” substitute  “that is not an excluded
holder (both as” .

10.2

In section 553 (meaning of “ holder of excessive rights ”)—

10.2.a

in the heading, after “rights”” insert “and  “excluded holder” ,

10.2.b

in subsection (1), omit the words after paragraph (b), and

10.2.c

after subsection (4) insert—

10.2.c.4A

For the purposes of section 551, a holder of excessive rights is an “excluded
holder” if—

10.2.c.4A.a

in accordance with double taxation arrangements (within the meaning of section
2(4) of TIOPA 2010), the holder is taxed at a particular rate, or not taxed at
all, on distributions from a UK REIT, unless the sole reason for that
treatment is the size of the holder’s interest in the UK REIT, or

10.2.c.4A.b

the holder is a person to whom a payment of a distribution must be made
without deduction of income tax in accordance with regulation 7 of the Real
Estate Investment Trusts (Assessment and Recovery of Tax) Regulations 2006 (
S.I. 2006/2867 ) (gross payment of distributions).

##### Corporate interest restriction and disposal of interests in UK property rich companies

11

11.1

Section 452 of TIOPA 2010 (corporate interest restriction: REITs) is amended
as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1)(b), after “(5)” insert  “, or section 535A(2),” .

11.3

In subsection (4)(b), after “(5)” insert  “, or section 535A(2),” .

  Tonnage tax

Section 9

##### Introduction

1

Schedule 22 to FA 2000 (tonnage tax) is amended as follows.

##### Qualifying companies to include companies managing qualifying ships

2

2.1

In paragraph 16 (qualifying companies and groups), in sub-paragraph (1)(b),
after “operates” insert  “or manages” .

2.2

After paragraph 18 insert—

########### Meaning of managing a qualifying ship

2.2.18A

A company is regarded for the purposes of this Schedule as managing a
qualifying ship if—

2.2.18A.a

the ship is a qualifying ship operated by a tonnage tax company (“ the
operator ”),

2.2.18A.b

the company carries on activities in relation to the ship that would be
tonnage tax activities of the operator if the operator carried them on, and

2.2.18A.c

those activities as carried on by the company represent a significant
contribution to the operation of the ship.

##### Daily profits of managed ships

3

3.1

Paragraph 4 (tonnage tax profits: method of calculation) is amended as
follows.

3.2

In sub-paragraph (1), after “operated” insert  “or managed” .

3.3

In sub-paragraph (2), for Step One substitute—

      Step One       Determine the daily profit for each qualifying ship
operated by the company and each qualifying ship managed by the company by
reference to the following table and the net tonnage of the ship—         Net
tonnage Daily Profit Operated ship Managed ship   For each 100 tons up to
1,000 tons £0.60 £0.12 For each 100 tons between 1,000 and 10,000 tons £0.45
£0.09 For each 100 tons between 10,000 and 25,000 tons £0.30 £0.06 For each
100 tons above 25,000 tons £0.15 £0.03

.

##### Tonnage tax activities include activities in managing ships

4

In paragraph 46 (core qualifying activities)—

4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

4.a.i

in paragraph (a), after “operating” insert  “or managing” , and

4.a.ii

in paragraph (b), after “operating” insert  “or managing” , and

4.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

4.b.3

A company’s activities in managing qualifying ships means its participation in
the activities mentioned in that paragraph by virtue of which the ship is a
qualifying ship.

##### Effect of temporarily ceasing to manage or operate qualifying ships

5

In paragraph 17 (effect of temporarily ceasing to operate qualifying ships)—

5.a

in sub-paragraph (1) after “operate”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or
manage” ,

5.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in paragraph (a), after “operating” insert  “or
managing” ,

5.c

in that sub-paragraph, in the words after paragraph (b)—

5.c.i

after “operate” insert  “or manage” ,

5.c.ii

after “operated” insert  “or managed” , and

5.d

in sub-paragraph (4)—

5.d.i

in paragraph (a), after “operating” insert  “or managing” , and

5.d.ii

in paragraph (b), after “operates” insert  “or manages” .

##### Training requirement

6

In paragraph 23 (the training requirement), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

6.3

The condition mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to—

6.3.a

a company that does not operate any qualifying ships, or

6.3.b

a group that does not have any members that operate one or more qualifying
ships.

##### Disapplication of 75% limit for ship managers

7

7.1

In paragraph 37 (75% charter limit)—

7.1.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “of” insert  “a
relevant company or group” , and

7.1.b

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

7.1.b.6

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)—

7.1.b.6.a

a company is “relevant” if it operates one or more qualifying ships, and

7.1.b.6.b

a group is “relevant” if it has one or more members that operate one or more
qualifying ships.

7.2

In paragraph 49 (distributions of oversea shipping companies), in sub-
paragraph (2), in paragraph (c), after “that” insert  “, where the overseas
company operates qualifying ships,” .

##### Commencement

8

The amendments made by this Schedule have effect in relation to tonnage tax
elections made on or after 1 April 2024.

  Pensions

Section 14

##### Abolition of lifetime allowance charge

1

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc) is amended as follows.

2

In section 204 (tax charges: authorised pensions and lump sums), after
subsection (2) insert—

2.3

For further provision, in addition to that contained in this Chapter, about
the taxation of pensions and lump sums which are authorised to be paid by this
Part, see—

2.3.a

Chapter 5A of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pensions under registered pension
schemes);

2.3.b

Chapter 15A of that Part of that Act (lump sums under registered pension
schemes).

3

Omit sections 214 to 226 (lifetime allowance charge) and the italic heading
before those sections.

4

4.1

Section 232 (annual allowance charge: cash balance arrangements: adjustments
of closing value) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (8A)(c)—

4.2.a

omit “or, but for paragraph 15A of Schedule 32, would occur”;

4.2.b

for “lifetime allowance excess lump sum” substitute  “pension commencement
excess lump sum” .

4.3

In subsection (8D)—

4.3.a

in paragraph (a) omit “or benefit crystallisation event 5, 5A or 5B occurs in
relation to the individual and the pension scheme”;

4.3.b

in paragraph (b) omit “or the benefit crystallisation event occurs”.

4.4

After subsection (8D) insert—

4.4.8E

Schedule 32 contains provision about the meaning of references in this section
to benefit crystallisation events.

5

5.1

Section 236 (annual allowance charge: defined benefits arrangements:
adjustments of closing value) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (8A)(c) for “lifetime allowance excess lump sum” substitute
“pension commencement excess lump sum” .

5.3

In subsection (8D)—

5.3.a

in paragraph (a) omit “or benefit crystallisation event 5, 5A or 5B occurs in
relation to the individual and the pension scheme”;

5.3.b

in paragraph (b) omit “or the benefit crystallisation event occurs”.

5.4

After subsection (8D) insert—

5.4.8E

Schedule 32 contains provision about the meaning of references in this section
to benefit crystallisation events.

6

In section 237B (annual allowance: liability of scheme administrator), in
subsection (6) omit the words from “or benefit crystallisation event 5” to the
end.

7

In section 255 (assessments under Part 4 of FA 2004), in subsection (1) omit
paragraph (c).

8

Omit section 267 (discharge of liability of scheme administrator to lifetime
allowance charge).

9

9.1

Section 269 (appeal against decision on discharge of liability) is amended as
follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)—

9.2.a

in paragraph (a) omit “section 267(2) (discharge of liability to lifetime
allowance charge)”;

9.2.b

omit paragraph (b) (and the “or” before it).

9.3

In subsection (6) omit “lifetime allowance charge,”.

9.4

Omit subsections (9) to (11).

10

In section 272A (liabilities of independent trustee), in subsection (7) omit
paragraph (b).

11

In section 280 (abbreviations and general index), in the table in subsection
(2) omit the entries for the following—

      active membership period;           amount crystallised;
available (in relation to a person’s lifetime allowance);           benefit
crystallisation event;           lifetime allowance (in relation to a person);
lifetime allowance charge;           lifetime allowance enhancement factors;
lifetime allowance excess lump sum;           overseas arrangement active
membership period;           recognised overseas scheme arrangement;
relevant overseas individual;           standard lifetime allowance;
transitional 2013/14 lump sum;           winding-up lump sum death benefit.

12

In Schedule 28 (pension rules and pension death benefit rules), in Part 2
(pension death benefit rules), in paragraph 16AA omit sub-paragraph (a).

13

13.1

Schedule 32 (meaning of expressions relating to benefit crystallisation
events) is amended as follows.

13.2

In the shoulder note, for “Section 216” substitute  “Sections 232 and 236” .

13.3

In the heading omit “- supplementary”.

13.4

Before paragraph 1 and the italic heading before it insert—

########### Introduction

13.4.A1

13.4.A1.1

This Schedule applies for the purposes of sections 232 and 236.

13.4.A1.2

In this Schedule—

13.4.A1.2.a

paragraph  A2  sets out the events that are benefit crystallisation events in
relation to an individual;

13.4.A1.2.b

subsequent paragraphs give the meaning of expressions used in paragraph  A2 .

########### The benefit crystallisation events

13.4.A2

13.4.A2.1

Benefit crystallisation event 1 occurs in relation to an individual if sums or
assets held for the purposes of a money purchase arrangement under any of the
relevant pension schemes are designated as available for the payment of
drawdown pension to the individual.

13.4.A2.2

Benefit crystallisation event 2 occurs in relation to an individual if the
individual becomes entitled to a scheme pension under any of the relevant
pension schemes.

13.4.A2.3

Benefit crystallisation event 3 occurs in relation to an individual if the
individual, having become so entitled, becomes entitled to payment of the
scheme pension, otherwise than in excepted circumstances, at an increased
annual rate which—

13.4.A2.3.a

exceeds the threshold annual rate, and

13.4.A2.3.b

exceeds by more than the permitted margin the rate at which it was payable on
the day on which the individual became entitled to it.

13.4.A2.4

Benefit crystallisation event 4 occurs in relation to an individual if the
individual becomes entitled to a lifetime annuity purchased under a money
purchase arrangement under any of the relevant pension schemes.

13.4.A2.5

Benefit crystallisation event 6 occurs in relation to an individual if the
individual becomes entitled to a relevant lump sum under any of the relevant
pension schemes.

13.5

In paragraph 1 (meaning of “ the relevant pension schemes ”)—

13.5.a

for “For the purposes of the benefit crystallisation events” substitute  “In
this Schedule” ;

13.5.b

omit the words from “(or in the case of” to the end.

13.6

Omit the following paragraphs and the italic headings before them—

13.6.a

paragraph 2A (avoiding double counting of refunded amounts of overseas
transfer charge);

13.6.b

paragraphs 2B, 3 and 4 (BCEs 1, 2 and 4: prevention of overlap);

13.6.c

paragraph 5 (BCEs 1 and 5: hybrid arrangements);

13.6.d

paragraph 6 (BCEs 2, 3 and 5: meaning of “RVF”);

13.7

In paragraph 7 (BCEs 2 and 4: early lifetime annuities) omit sub-paragraphs
(4) and (5).

13.8

Omit the following paragraphs and the italic headings before them—

13.8.a

paragraph 9 (BCE 2: meaning of “P”);

13.8.b

paragraph 13 (BCE 3: meaning of “XP”);

13.8.c

paragraph 14 (BCE 5: meaning of “DP” and “DSLS”);

13.8.d

paragraph 14ZA (BCEs 5 and 5B: hybrid arrangements);

13.8.e

paragraph 14ZB (BCE 5A: meaning of “amounts crystallised by BCE 1”);

13.8.f

paragraph 14A (BCE 5B: meaning of “remaining unused funds”);

13.8.g

paragraph 14B (BCEs 5C and 5D: meaning of “relevant two-year period”);

13.8.h

paragraph 14C (BCEs 5C and 5D: meaning of “relevant unused uncrystallised
funds”).

13.9

In paragraph 15 (BCE 6: meaning of “relevant lump sum”), in sub-paragraph (c),
for “lifetime allowance excess lump sum” substitute  “pension commencement
excess lump sum” .

13.10

Omit the following paragraphs and the italic headings before them—

13.10.a

paragraph 15A (BCE 6: prevention of overlap);

13.10.b

paragraph 16 (BCE 7: meaning of “relevant lump sum death benefit”);

13.10.c

paragraph 17 (BCE 8: prevention of overlap).

14

In Schedule 34 (non-UK schemes: application of certain charges) omit
paragraphs 13 to 19 (lifetime allowance charge) and the italic heading before
those paragraphs.

##### Taxation of lump sums

###### Amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc)

15

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc) is amended as follows.

16

In section 164 (authorised member payments), in subsection (2)(c), for the
words from “for the purposes of” to the end substitute  “as a relevant benefit
crystallisation event for the purposes of  section 637Q  or  637S  of ITEPA
2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance and lump sum and death
benefit allowance).”

17

17.1

Section 166 (lump sum rule) is amended as follows.

17.2

In subsection (1), in the lump sum rule—

17.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

17.2.a.aa

a pension commencement excess lump sum,

;

17.2.b

at the end of paragraph (e) insert  “, or” ;

17.2.c

omit paragraphs (g) and (h).

17.3

In subsection (2)—

17.3.a

omit paragraph (za);

17.3.b

in paragraph (a), for “any other pension commencement lump sum” substitute  “a
pension commencement lump sum or a pension commencement excess lump sum” .

18

In section 168 (lump sum death benefit rule), in subsection (1), in the lump
sum death benefit rule—

18.a

at the end of paragraph (f) insert  “, or” ;

18.b

omit paragraph (i) (and the “or” before it).

19

In section 227G (when pension rights are first flexibly accessed) omit
subsection (11).

20

20.1

Section 228ZA (tapered reduction of annual allowance: high-income individual)
is amended as follows.

20.2

In subsection (4) (definition of “adjusted income”), for paragraph (e)
substitute—

20.2.e

the amount of any lump sum death benefit which is subject to the charge to tax
on pension income under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income) in the tax year.

20.3

In subsection (5) (definition of “threshold income”), for paragraph (d)
substitute—

20.3.d

the amount of any lump sum death benefit which is subject to the charge to tax
on pension income under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income) in the tax year.

21

In section 264 (false statements etc), in subsection (1)(a), for “under this
Part, or” substitute  “under this Part or under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension
income) on pension income to which—

21.i

any provision of Chapter 15A of that Part of that Act (lump sums under
registered pension schemes) applies, or

21.ii

section 579A of that Act (pension income under registered pension schemes)
applies by virtue of any provision of that Chapter, or

22

22.1

Section 265 (winding-up to facilitate payment of lump sums) is amended as
follows.

22.2

In subsection (2) omit “or winding-up lump sum death benefits (or both)”.

22.3

In subsection (4) omit paragraph (b) (and the “and” before it).

23

After section 278 (market value) insert—

########## Disqualifying pension credits

23.278A

23.278A.1

For the purposes of this Part, a pension credit is “disqualifying” if, when
the member becomes entitled to it, the person subject to the corresponding
pension debit has an actual (rather than a prospective) right to payment of a
pension under the relevant arrangement.

23.278A.2

The “relevant arrangement” is the arrangement to which the pension sharing
order, or provision by virtue of which the member becomes entitled to the
pension credit, relates.

########## Annuities and scheme pensions: meaning of “related to”

23.278B

23.278B.1

For the purposes of this Part, a dependants' annuity is “related to” a
lifetime annuity payable to a member of a registered pension scheme if—

23.278B.1.a

they are purchased either in the form of a joint life annuity or separately in
circumstances in which the day on which the one is purchased is no earlier
than seven days before, and no later than seven days after, the day on which
the other is purchased, and

23.278B.1.b

the dependants’ annuity will be payable to a dependant of the member.

23.278B.2

For the purposes of this Part, a nominees’ annuity is “related to” a lifetime
annuity payable to a member of a registered pension scheme if—

23.278B.2.a

they are purchased either in the form of a joint life annuity or separately in
circumstances in which the day on which the one is purchased is no earlier
than seven days before, and no later than seven days after, the day on which
the other is purchased, and

23.278B.2.b

the nominees’ annuity will be payable to a nominee of the member.

23.278B.3

For the purposes of this Part, a dependants’ scheme pension is “related to” a
scheme pension payable to a member of a registered pension scheme if—

23.278B.3.a

the day on which one is purchased or sums or assets are applied for its
provision is no earlier than seven days before, and no later than seven days
after, the day on which the other is purchased or sums or assets are applied
for its provision, and

23.278B.3.b

the dependants’ scheme pension will be payable to a dependant of the member.

24

In section 280 (abbreviations and general index), in the table in subsection
(2)—

24.a

at the appropriate places add—

    pension commencement excess lump sum paragraph 3C  of Schedule 29

;

24.b

in the entry for “related dependants’ annuity” for “paragraph 3(4A) of
Schedule 29” substitute  “ section 278B (1) ” ;

24.c

in the entry for “related nominees’ annuity” for “paragraph 3(4B) of Schedule
29” substitute  “ section 278B (2) ” ;

24.d

in the entry for “related dependants’ scheme pension” for “paragraph 3(7C) of
Schedule 29” substitute  “ section 278B (3) ” .

25

Schedule 29 (authorised lump sums - supplementary) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  26  to  37 .

26

26.1

Paragraphs 1 to 3A (pension commencement lump sums) are amended as follows.

26.2

In paragraph 1 (pension commencement lump sum)—

26.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

26.2.a.i

in paragraph (b) for the words from “lifetime allowance” to the end substitute
“lump sum allowance is available, and all or part or the member’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance is available (see paragraph  12A ),” ;

26.2.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (f) for “sub-paragraphs (4) and (4A)” substitute  “sub-
paragraph (4A)” ;

26.2.b

omit sub-paragraphs (3A), (4) and (6).

26.3

Omit paragraphs 1A and 1B (which modify the definition of “ pension
commencement lump sum ” in relation to certain lump sums paid before 6 April
2015 and are therefore no longer of practical utility).

26.4

For paragraph 2 (definition of “the permitted maximum”) substitute—

26.4.2

In paragraph 1 “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a lump sum, means the
lowest of the following amounts—

26.4.2.a

the applicable amount in relation to the relevant pension (see paragraphs  2A
to  2D );

26.4.2.b

so much of the member’s lump sum allowance as is available on the individual
becoming entitled to the lump sum (see paragraph  12A );

26.4.2.c

so much of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available
on the individual becoming entitled to the lump sum (see paragraph  12A ).

26.5

For paragraph 3 (definition of “the applicable amount”) substitute—

26.5.2A

26.5.2A.1

This paragraph defines “ the applicable amount ” in relation to a relevant
pension in a case in which the relevant pension is income withdrawal.

26.5.2A.2

The applicable amount is one third of the scheme pension capital value.

26.5.2A.3

The scheme pension capital value is (subject to sub-paragraph  (4) ) the
aggregate of—

26.5.2A.3.a

the sums designated as available for the payment of drawdown pension on that
occasion, and

26.5.2A.3.b

the market value of the assets so designated.

26.5.2A.4

There is to be deducted from the amount determined under sub-paragraph  (3)
so much (if any) of the sums and assets designated as mentioned in sub-
paragraph  (3) (a)  or  (b)  as represent rights attributable to a
disqualifying pension credit.

26.5.2B

26.5.2B.1

This paragraph defines “ the applicable amount ” in relation to a relevant
pension in a case in which the relevant pension is a lifetime annuity.

26.5.2B.2

The applicable amount is one third of the annuity purchase price.

26.5.2B.3

The annuity purchase price is (subject to sub-paragraph  (4) ) the aggregate
of—

26.5.2B.3.a

such of the sums held for the purposes of the pension scheme, and

26.5.2B.3.b

the market value of such of the assets held for the purposes of the pension
scheme,

as are applied in (or in connection with) the purchase of the lifetime annuity
and any related dependants’ annuity and any related nominees’ annuity.

26.5.2B.4

There is to be deducted from the amount determined under sub-paragraph  (3) —

26.5.2B.4.a

if the sums or assets applied in (or in connection with) the purchase of the
annuity or any related dependants’ annuity or any related nominees’ annuity
consist of, or include, sums or assets representing the whole or part of the
member’s drawdown pension fund or of the member's flexi-access drawdown fund,
the aggregate of those sums and the market value of those assets, and

26.5.2B.4.b

in any case, so much (if any) of the sums or assets applied in (or in
connection with) the purchase of the annuity or any related dependants’
annuity or any related nominees’ annuity as represents rights which are
attributable to a disqualifying pension credit.

26.5.2C

26.5.2C.1

This paragraph defines “ the applicable amount ” in relation to a relevant
pension in a case in which the relevant pension is—

26.5.2C.1.a

a scheme pension under a defined benefits arrangement, or

26.5.2C.1.b

a collective money purchase arrangement.

26.5.2C.2

The applicable amount is (subject to sub-paragraph  (3) )—

      A   +   (   B   ×   C   )   -   D     4           where—         A is
the amount of the lump sum;           B is the relevant revaluation factor
(see section 276);           C is the amount of the pension which will be
payable to the member in the period of 12 months beginning with the day on
which the member becomes entitled to the pension (assuming that it remains
payable throughout that period at the rate at which it is payable on that
day);           D is so much (if any) of A or C as represents rights which are
attributable to a disqualifying pension credit.

26.5.2C.3

In determining C for the purposes of subsection  (2)  in a case in which the
pension is under a public service pension scheme, any abatement of the pension
is to be left out of account.

26.5.2D

26.5.2D.1

This paragraph defines “ the applicable amount ” in relation to a relevant
pension in a case in which the relevant pension is a scheme pension under a
money purchase arrangement that is not a collective money purchase
arrangement.

26.5.2D.2

The applicable amount is one third of the scheme pension purchase price.

26.5.2D.3

The scheme pension purchase price is (subject to sub-paragraph  (4) ) the
aggregate of—

26.5.2D.3.a

such of the sums held for the purposes of the pension scheme, and

26.5.2D.3.b

the market value of such of the assets held for the purposes of the pension
scheme,

as are applied in (or in connection with) the purchase or provision of the
scheme pension and any related dependants’ scheme pension.

26.5.2D.4

There is to be deducted from the amount determined under sub-paragraph  (3) —

26.5.2D.4.a

if the scheme pension is funded (in whole or in part) by the application of
sums or assets representing the whole or part of the member’s drawdown pension
fund or of the member’s flexi-access drawdown fund, the aggregate of those
sums and the market value of those assets, and

26.5.2D.4.b

in any case, so much (if any) of the sums and assets referred to in sub-
paragraph  (3) (a)  and  (b)  as represent rights which are attributable to a
disqualifying pension credit.

26.6

Before paragraph 3A (anti-avoidance rule to prevent recycling of pension
commencement lump sum) insert the following heading—

  Pension commencement lump sums: anti-avoidance

.

26.7

In paragraph 3A(5), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “the amount of the
lump sum” .

26.8

After paragraph 3A insert—

26.8.3B

26.8.3B.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies if—

26.8.3B.1.a

sums or assets held for the purposes of, or representing accrued rights under,
a money purchase arrangement relating to the member under a registered pension
scheme (“member money purchase funds”) are subject to a relevant surrender or
a relevant transfer,

26.8.3B.1.b

the sole or main purpose of the relevant surrender or relevant transfer is to
increase the applicable amount for the purposes of paragraph  2  on the member
becoming entitled to a scheme pension, and

26.8.3B.1.c

the member becomes entitled to a scheme pension under a relevant defined
benefits arrangement.

26.8.3B.2

The pension scheme under which the relevant defined benefits arrangement is an
arrangement is to be treated as making an unauthorised payment to the member
of the amount by which—

26.8.3B.2.a

the applicable amount in relation to the relevant defined benefits arrangement
(as determined under paragraph  2C ), exceeds

26.8.3B.2.b

what would be the applicable amount (as determined under paragraph  2D ) if
the arrangement were a money purchase arrangement.

26.8.3B.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) —

26.8.3B.3.a

member money purchase funds are subject to a “relevant surrender” if they are
surrendered and, in consequence of the surrender, there is a corresponding
increase in the sums or assets held for the purposes of, or representing
rights under, a defined benefits arrangement relating to the member under the
pension scheme (or such an arrangement is established), and

26.8.3B.3.b

member money purchase funds are subject to a “relevant transfer” if they are
transferred so as to become held for the purposes of, or to represent rights
under, a defined benefits arrangement relating to the member under any other
registered pension scheme.

26.8.3B.4

In this paragraph “ relevant defined benefits arrangement ” means—

26.8.3B.4.a

the defined benefits arrangement mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b)  of sub-
paragraph  (3) , or

26.8.3B.4.b

any other defined benefits arrangement relating to the member (under the
pension scheme or any other registered pension scheme) in the case of which
any of the sums or assets held for the purposes of, or representing accrued
rights under, the arrangement directly or indirectly represent sums or assets
previously held for the purposes of, or representing accrued rights under, the
defined benefits arrangement so mentioned.

26.9

After paragraph 3B (as inserted by sub-paragraph  (8) ) insert—

############ Pension commencement excess lump sum

26.9.3C

26.9.3C.1

For the purposes of this Part a lump sum is a pension commencement excess lump
sum if—

26.9.3C.1.a

the member becomes entitled to it in connection with becoming entitled to a
relevant pension (or dies after becoming entitled to it but before becoming
entitled to the relevant pension in connection with which it was anticipated
that the member would become entitled to it);

26.9.3C.1.b

it is paid when none of the member’s lump sum allowance is available (see
paragraph  12A );

26.9.3C.1.c

it is paid within the period beginning six months before, and ending one year
after, the day on which the member becomes entitled to it;

26.9.3C.1.d

it does not reduce the rate of payment of any pension to which the member has
become (actually) entitled, or extinguish the member’s entitlement to payment
of any such pension;

26.9.3C.1.e

it is paid when the member has reached normal minimum pension age (or the ill-
health condition is met); and

26.9.3C.1.f

it is not an excluded lump sum (see  sub-paragraph (4) ).

26.9.3C.2

But if a lump sum falling within sub-paragraph (1) exceeds the permitted
maximum, the excess is not a pension commencement excess lump sum.

26.9.3C.3

In this paragraph “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a lump sum, means—

  (   A   ×   4   )   -   B         where—         “ A ” is the applicable
amount in relation to the relevant pension (see paragraphs  2A  to  2D );
“ B ” is the amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance that
is available on the payment of the lump sum (see paragraph  12A ).

26.9.3C.4

A lump sum is an “excluded lump sum” if—

26.9.3C.4.a

it would, apart from this paragraph, be permitted to be paid under the lump
sum rule in section 166, or

26.9.3C.4.b

the pension in connection with which the member becomes entitled to it is a
CMP-derived drawdown pension.

26.9.3C.5

In determining for the purposes of this paragraph—

26.9.3C.5.a

whether any of a member’s lump sum allowance is available on the payment of a
lump sum, or

26.9.3C.5.b

the amount of a member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance that is
available on the payment of a lump sum,

the member is treated as having already become entitled to any pension
commencement lump sum that is paid to the member in connection with becoming
entitled to the relevant pension.

27

27.1

Paragraph 4 (serious ill-health lump sum) is amended as follows.

27.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

27.2.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

27.2.b

omit paragraph (b).

27.3

In sub-paragraph (2) for “in respect of which there has been no previous
benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “under which the member has not
previously become entitled to any pension or lump sum” .

27.4

Omit sub-paragraph (3).

28

28.1

Paragraph 4A (uncrystallised funds pension lump sum) is amended as follows.

28.2

In sub-paragraph (1) omit paragraph (b).

28.3

Omit sub-paragraph (2).

29

29.1

Paragraph 5 (short service refund lump sum) is amended as follows.

29.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for paragraph (c) substitute—

29.2.c

the member has not previously become entitled to any pension or lump sum under
the pension scheme,

.

30

30.1

In paragraph 7 (trivial commutation lump sum), in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for
“lifetime allowance is available” substitute  “lump sum allowance is available
(see paragraph  12A )” .

30.2

In paragraph 8 (trivial commutation lump sum: value of member’s relevant
crystallised pension rights on the nominated date), in sub-paragraph (1), for
paragraph (b) substitute—

30.2.b

the amount given by the formula—

  (   (   A   -   B   )   ×   4   )   +   C         where—         “ A ” is
the member’s lump sum allowance;           “ B ” is the amount of the member’s
lump sum allowance that is available (see paragraph  12A ) on the payment of
the lump sum in question;           “ C ” is the amount of any serious ill
health lump sum already paid to the member so far as it was not chargeable to
income tax.

31

In paragraph 10 (winding-up lump sum), in sub-paragraph (1)(d), for “lifetime
allowance is available” substitute  “lump sum allowance is available (see
paragraph  12A )” .

32

Omit paragraph 11 (lifetime allowance excess lump sum) and the italic heading
before it.

33

Omit paragraph 11A (transitional 2013/14 lump sum) and the italic heading
before it.

34

In the italic heading before paragraph 12 omit “of Part 1”.

35

35.1

Paragraph 12 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

35.2

Omit sub-paragraphs (1A) to (4).

35.3

In sub-paragraph (5), for “4A(2)” substitute  “ 3C (2) ” .

36

After paragraph 12 insert—

36.12A

36.12A.1

In this Part of this Schedule, a reference to the amount of an individual’s
lump sum allowance that is available on the individual becoming entitled to a
lump sum, or being paid a lump sum, is to the amount of that allowance that
would be so available on the following assumption.

36.12A.2

The assumption is that the individual becoming entitled to or (as the case may
be) being paid the lump sum was a relevant benefit crystallisation event
within the meaning of section  637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of
individual’s lump sum allowance).

36.12A.3

In this Part of this Schedule, a reference to the amount of an individual’s
lump sum and death benefit allowance that is available on the individual
becoming entitled to a lump sum, or being paid a lump sum, is to the amount of
that allowance that would be so available on the following assumption.

36.12A.4

The assumption is that the individual becoming entitled to or (as the case may
be) being paid the lump sum was a relevant benefit crystallisation event
within the meaning of section  637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of
individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance).

37

37.1

In paragraph 13 (defined benefits lump sum death benefit) sub-paragraph (1)(d)
is amended as follows.

37.2

After “pension protection lump sum death benefit,” insert  “or” .

37.3

Omit “or winding-up lump sum death benefit.”

###### Amendments of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003

38

Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income) is amended as follows.

39

In section 565 (structure of Part 9), for the paragraph relating to Chapter
15A substitute—

Chapter 15A—

39.a

provides for certain amounts paid under registered pension schemes in the form
of lump sums to be subject to the charge to tax on pension income, and

39.b

deals with exemptions from the charge to tax (whether under this Part or any
other provision) in relation to certain other amounts paid under registered
pension schemes in the form of lump sums.

40

40.1

Section 566 (nature of charge to tax on pension income and relevant
definitions) is amended as follows.

40.2

In subsection (3), for “16” substitute  “15A” .

40.3

In the table in subsection (4)—

40.3.a

after the entry for section 633 insert—

    Section  637B Pensions treated as arising from payment of pension
commencement excess lump sums under registered pension schemes Chapter 15A

40.3.b

in the entry for section 636B, in the first column, for “636B” substitute  “
637G ” .

40.3.c

in the entry for section 636C—

40.3.c.i

in the first column, for “636C” substitute  “ 637N ” ;

40.3.c.ii

in the second column omit “and winding-up lump sum death benefits”.

41

For Chapter 15A substitute—

########## Lump sums under registered pension schemes

########### Introduction

############ Introduction

41.637

41.637.1

This Chapter makes provision about the income tax treatment of authorised lump
sums and authorised lump sum death benefits.

41.637.2

In this Chapter—

41.637.2.a

“ authorised lump sum ” means a lump sum permitted by the lump sum rule in
section 166 of FA 2004 to be paid by a registered pension scheme to a member
of the scheme;

41.637.2.b

“ authorised lump sum death benefit ” means a lump sum death benefit permitted
by the lump sum death benefit rule in section 168 of that Act to be paid by a
registered pension scheme in respect of a member of the scheme.

41.637.3

Expressions used in this Chapter and Part 4 of FA 2004 (pensions etc) have the
same meaning in this Chapter as in that Part.

########### Tax treatment of authorised lump sums

############ Pension commencement lump sums

41.637A

No liability to income tax arises on a pension commencement lump sum paid
under a registered pension scheme.

############ Pension commencement excess lump sums

41.637B

A person to whom a pension commencement excess lump sum is paid under a
registered pension scheme is treated as having taxable pension income for the
tax year in which the payment is made equal to the amount of the lump sum.

############ Serious ill-health lump sums

41.637C

41.637C.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  and  (4) , no liability to income tax arises on a
serious ill-health lump sum paid under a registered pension scheme.

41.637C.2

If—

41.637C.2.a

a serious ill-health lump sum is paid under a registered pension scheme to a
member who (at the time of the payment) is under 75, and

41.637C.2.b

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637C.3

In subsection  (2)  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a serious ill-
health lump sum paid to a member, means so much of the member’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance as is available immediately before the member becomes
entitled to the lump sum (see section  637S ).

41.637C.4

If a serious ill-health lump sum is paid under a registered pension scheme to
a member who (at the time of the payment) is 75 or over, section 579A
(pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension under a
registered pension scheme.

############ Uncrystallised funds pension lump sums

41.637D

41.637D.1

Subject to subsection  (2) , where an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum is
paid under a registered pension scheme—

41.637D.1.a

no liability to income tax arises on 25% of the lump sum, and

41.637D.1.b

section 579A (pensions) applies in relation to the remainder of the lump sum
as it applies to any pension under a registered pension scheme.

41.637D.2

If—

41.637D.2.a

an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum is paid under a registered pension
scheme, and

41.637D.2.b

25% of the lump sum is an amount that exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637D.3

In subsection  (2)  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to an
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum paid to a member, means the lower of the
following amounts—

41.637D.3.a

so much of the member’s lump sum allowance as is available immediately before
the member becomes entitled to the lump sum (see section  637Q );

41.637D.3.b

so much of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available
immediately before the member becomes entitled to the lump sum (see section
637S ).

############ Short service refund lump sum

41.637E

A short service refund lump paid under a registered pension scheme is subject
to income tax in accordance with section 205 of FA 2004 (charge to tax on
scheme administrator in respect of such a lump sum) but not otherwise.

############ Refund of excess contributions lump sums

41.637F

No liability to income tax arises on a refund of excess contributions lump sum
paid under a registered pension scheme.

############ Trivial commutation lump sums and winding-up lump sums

41.637G

41.637G.1

Subject to subsection (2), a member of a registered pension scheme to whom—

41.637G.1.a

a trivial commutation lump sum, or

41.637G.1.b

a winding-up lump sum,

is paid under the scheme is treated as having taxable pension income for the
tax year in which the payment is made equal to the amount of the lump sum.

41.637G.2

If, immediately before the lump sum is paid, the member has uncrystallised
rights under any one or more arrangements under the pension scheme, the amount
of the taxable pension income is reduced by the tax-free element (if any).

41.637G.3

In subsection  (2)  “ the tax-free element ” means 25% of the value of any
uncrystallised rights extinguished by the lump sum.

41.637G.4

In this section “ uncrystallised rights ” has the same meaning as in section
212 of FA 2004; and the value for the purposes of this section of any
uncrystallised rights is to be calculated in accordance with that section.

########### Tax treatment of authorised lump sum death benefits

############ Defined benefits lump sum death benefits

41.637H

41.637H.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  to  (6) , no liability to income tax arises on a
defined benefits lump sum death benefit paid under a registered pension
scheme.

41.637H.2

If—

41.637H.2.a

a defined benefits lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme is
paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637H.2.b

the lump sum is paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637H.2.c

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637H.3

If—

41.637H.3.a

a defined benefits lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme is
paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637H.3.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637H.3.c

the lump sum is paid to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637H.4

If—

41.637H.4.a

a defined benefits lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme is
paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637H.4.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637H.4.c

the lump sum is paid to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637H.5

If a defined benefits lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme
is paid—

41.637H.5.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637H.5.b

to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637H.6

If a defined benefits lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme
is paid—

41.637H.6.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637H.6.b

to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637H.7

In this section—

      “ non-qualifying person ” has the same meaning as in section 206 of FA
2004;           “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a defined benefits
lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a member, means so much of the
member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available immediately
before the lump sum is paid (see section  637S );           “ qualifying
person ” means a person who is not a non-qualifying person;           “ the
relevant two year period ” means the period of two years beginning with the
day on which the scheme administrator of the scheme first knew of the member’s
death or (if earlier) the day on which the scheme administrator could first
reasonably have been expected to have known of it.

############ Pension protection lump sum death benefits

41.637I

41.637I.1

Subject to subsections  (2) ,  (3)  and  (4)  no liability to income tax
arises on a pension protection lump sum death benefit paid under a registered
pension scheme.

41.637I.2

If—

41.637I.2.a

a pension protection lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme
is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75, and

41.637I.2.b

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637I.3

If a pension protection lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637I.3.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637I.3.b

to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637I.4

If a pension protection lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637I.4.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637I.4.b

to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637I.5

In this section—

      “ non-qualifying person ” has the same meaning as in section 206 of FA
2004;           “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a pension protection
lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a member, means so much of the
member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available immediately
before the lump sum is paid (see section  637S );           “ qualifying
person ” means a person who is not a non-qualifying person.

############ Uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefits

41.637J

41.637J.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  to  (6) , no liability to income tax arises on an
uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit paid under a registered pension
scheme.

41.637J.2

If—

41.637J.2.a

an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637J.2.b

the lump sum is paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637J.2.c

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637J.3

If—

41.637J.3.a

an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637J.3.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637J.3.c

the lump sum is paid to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637J.4

If—

41.637J.4.a

an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637J.4.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637J.4.c

the lump sum is paid to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637J.5

If an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637J.5.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637J.5.b

to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637J.6

If an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637J.6.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637J.6.b

to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637J.7

In this section—

      “ non-qualifying person ” has the same meaning as in section 206 of FA
2004;           “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to an uncrystallised
funds lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a member, means so much of the
member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available immediately
before the lump sum is paid (see section  637S );           “ qualifying
person ” means a person who is not a non-qualifying person;           “ the
relevant two year period ” means the period of two years beginning with the
day on which the scheme administrator of the scheme first knew of the member’s
death or (if earlier) the day on which the scheme administrator could first
reasonably have been expected to have known of it.

############ Annuity protection lump sum death benefits

41.637K

41.637K.1

Subject to subsections  (2) ,  (3)  and  (4) , no liability to income tax
arises on an annuity protection lump sum death benefit paid under a registered
pension scheme.

41.637K.2

If—

41.637K.2.a

an annuity protection lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme
is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75, and

41.637K.2.b

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637K.3

If an annuity protection lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637K.3.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637K.3.b

to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637K.4

If an annuity protection lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637K.4.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637K.4.b

to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637K.5

In this section—

      “ non-qualifying person ” has the same meaning as in section 206 of FA
2004;           “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to an annuity
protection lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a member, means so much
of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available
immediately before the lump sum is paid (see section  637S );           “
qualifying person ” means a person who is not a non-qualifying person.

############ Drawdown pension fund lump sum death benefits

41.637L

41.637L.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  to  (6) , no liability to income tax arises on a
drawdown pension lump sum death benefit paid under a registered pension
scheme.

41.637L.2

If—

41.637L.2.a

a drawdown pension lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme is
paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637L.2.b

the lump sum is paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637L.2.c

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637L.3

If—

41.637L.3.a

a drawdown pension lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme is
paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637L.3.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637L.3.c

the lump sum is paid to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637L.4

If—

41.637L.4.a

a drawdown pension lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme is
paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637L.4.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637L.4.c

the lump sum is paid to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637L.5

If a drawdown pension lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme
is paid—

41.637L.5.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637L.5.b

to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637L.6

If a drawdown pension lump sum death benefit under a registered pension scheme
is paid—

41.637L.6.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637L.6.b

to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637L.7

A reference in this section to a “ member ”, in relation to a drawdown pension
lump sum death benefit under paragraph 17(2) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (lump
sum payable on death of dependant of deceased member), is a reference to the
dependant on whose death the lump sum is payable.

41.637L.8

In this section—

      “ non-qualifying person ” has the same meaning as in section 206 of FA
2004;           “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a drawdown pension
lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a member, means so much of the
member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available immediately
before the lump sum is paid (see section  637S );           “ qualifying
person ” means a person who is not a non-qualifying person;           “ the
relevant two year period ” means the period of two years beginning with the
day on which the scheme administrator of the scheme first knew of the member’s
death or (if earlier) the day on which the scheme administrator could first
reasonably have been expected to have known of it.

############ Flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefits

41.637M

41.637M.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  to  (6) , no liability to income tax arises on a
flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit paid under a registered pension
scheme.

41.637M.2

If—

41.637M.2.a

a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637M.2.b

the lump sum is paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637M.2.c

the lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637M.3

If—

41.637M.3.a

a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637M.3.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637M.3.c

the lump sum is paid to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637M.4

If—

41.637M.4.a

a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid in respect of a member who, on death, is under 75,

41.637M.4.b

the lump sum is not paid before the end of the relevant two year period, and

41.637M.4.c

the lump sum is paid to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637M.5

If a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637M.5.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637M.5.b

to a qualifying person,

section 579A (pensions) applies to the lump sum as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

41.637M.6

If a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under a registered pension
scheme is paid—

41.637M.6.a

in respect of a member who, on death, is 75 or over, and

41.637M.6.b

to a non-qualifying person,

the lump sum is subject to income tax under section 206 of FA 2004 (special
lump sum death benefits charge on scheme administrator) but not otherwise.

41.637M.7

A reference in this section to a “member”—

41.637M.7.a

in relation to a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under paragraph
17A(2) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (lump sum payable on death of dependant of
deceased member), is a reference to the dependant on whose death the lump sum
is payable;

41.637M.7.b

in relation to a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit under paragraph
17A(3) or (4) of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (lump sum payable on death of nominee
or successor of deceased member), is a reference to the nominee or successor
on whose death the lump sum is payable.

41.637M.8

In this section—

      “ non-qualifying person ” has the same meaning as in section 206 of FA
2004;           “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a flexi-access
drawdown lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a member, means so much of
the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is available immediately
before the lump sum is paid (see section  637S );           “ qualifying
person ” means a person who is not a non-qualifying person;           “ the
relevant two year period ” means the period of two years beginning with the
day on which the scheme administrator of the scheme first knew of the member’s
death or (if earlier) the day on which the scheme administrator could first
reasonably have been expected to have known of it.

############ Trivial commutation lump sum death benefits

41.637N

A person to whom a trivial commutation lump sum death benefit is paid under a
registered pension scheme is treated as having taxable pension income for the
tax year in which the payment is made equal to the amount of the lump sum.

########### Allowances

############ Individual’s lump sum allowance

41.637P

An individual’s “lump sum allowance” is £268,275.

############ Availability of individual’s lump sum allowance

41.637Q

41.637Q.1

This section is about the availability of an individual’s lump sum allowance
on the occurrence of a relevant benefit crystallisation event (“the current
event”).

41.637Q.2

In this section—

41.637Q.2.a

“ relevant benefit crystallisation event ”, in relation to an individual,
means the individual becoming entitled to a relevant lump sum;

41.637Q.2.b

“ relevant lump sum ” means—

41.637Q.2.b.i

a pension commencement lump sum, or

41.637Q.2.b.ii

an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum.

41.637Q.3

If no relevant benefit crystallisation event has occurred in relation to the
individual before the current event, the whole of the individual’s lump sum
allowance is available.

41.637Q.4

Otherwise, the amount of the individual’s lump sum allowance that is available
is—

41.637Q.4.a

so much of that allowance as is left after deducting the previously-used
amount, or

41.637Q.4.b

if none is left after deducting that amount, nil.

41.637Q.5

For this purpose “the previously-used amount” is the aggregate of the non-
taxable amounts in relation to each relevant benefit crystallisation event
that has occurred in relation to the individual before the current event.

41.637Q.6

In subsection  (5)  “ non-taxable amount ”, in relation to a relevant benefit
crystallisation event, means so much (if any) of the relevant lump sum to
which the event relates as is exempt from the charge to income tax by virtue
of any provision of this Chapter.

41.637Q.7

A reference in this section to a relevant benefit crystallisation event is to
a relevant benefit crystallisation event occurring on or after 6 April 2024.

41.637Q.8

For transitional provision under which the amount of an individual’s lump sum
allowance available on the occurrence of a relevant benefit crystallisation
event may be reduced as a result of events occurring before 6 April 2024, see
paragraph 125  of  Schedule 9  to FA 2024.

############ Individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance

41.637R

An individual’s “lump sum and death benefit allowance” is £1,073,100.

############ Availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance

41.637S

41.637S.1

This section is about the availability of an individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance on the occurrence of a relevant benefit crystallisation
event (“the current event”).

41.637S.2

In this section—

41.637S.2.a

“ relevant benefit crystallisation event ”, in relation to an individual,
means—

41.637S.2.a.i

the individual becoming entitled to a relevant lump sum, or

41.637S.2.a.ii

a person being paid a relevant lump sum death benefit in respect of the
individual;

41.637S.2.b

“ relevant lump sum ” means—

41.637S.2.b.i

a pension commencement lump sum,

41.637S.2.b.ii

a serious ill-health lump sum, or

41.637S.2.b.iii

an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum;

41.637S.2.c

“ relevant lump sum death benefit ” means any authorised lump sum death
benefit other than—

41.637S.2.c.i

a charity lump sum death benefit, or

41.637S.2.c.ii

a trivial commutation lump sum death benefit.

41.637S.3

If no relevant benefit crystallisation event has occurred in relation to the
individual before the current event, the whole of the individual’s lump sum
and death benefit allowance is available.

41.637S.4

Otherwise, the amount of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance
that is available is—

41.637S.4.a

so much of that allowance as is left after deducting the previously-used
amount, or

41.637S.4.b

if none is left after deducting that amount, nil.

41.637S.5

For this purpose “the previously-used amount” is the aggregate of the non-
taxable amounts in relation to each relevant benefit crystallisation event
that has occurred in relation to the individual before the current event.

41.637S.6

In subsection  (5)  “ non-taxable amount ”, in relation to a relevant benefit
crystallisation event, means so much (if any) of the relevant lump sum, or
relevant lump sum death benefit, to which the event relates as is exempt from
the charge to income tax by virtue of any provision of this Chapter.

41.637S.7

Where more than one relevant benefit crystallisation event within  subsection
(2) (a) (i)  occurs in relation to an individual on the same day, it is for
the individual to decide the order in which they are to be treated as
occurring for the purposes of this section.

41.637S.8

Where more than one relevant benefit crystallisation event within  subsection
(2) (a) (ii)  occurs in relation to an individual, they are to be treated for
the purposes of this section as occurring—

41.637S.8.a

immediately before the individual’s death,

41.637S.8.b

immediately after any pension commencement lump sum to which the individual
becomes entitled immediately before death by virtue of section 166(2) of FA
2004 (lump sum rule), and

41.637S.8.c

in such order as may be decided by the individual’s personal representatives.

41.637S.9

A reference in this section to a relevant benefit crystallisation event is to
a relevant benefit crystallisation event occurring on or after 6 April 2024.

41.637S.10

For transitional provision under which the amount of an individual’s lump sum
and death benefit allowance available on the occurrence of a relevant benefit
crystallisation event may be reduced as a result of events occurring before 6
April 2024, see  paragraph 126  of  Schedule 9  to FA 2024.

41.637S.11

For further transitional provision that may affect the operation of this
section, see paragraph 20 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 (pensions in payment
before commencement of Part 4 of FA 2004).

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009

42

42.1

The Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009 ( S.I.
2009/1171 ) are amended as follows.

42.2

Omit regulation 3A (which relates to payments made before 6 April 2015 and is
therefore no longer of practical utility).

42.3

In regulation 7 (meaning of “ relevant accretion ”) omit paragraphs (3) and
(3A).

42.4

In regulation 16 (payments of arrears of pension after death) omit paragraphs
(5) and (6).

42.5

In regulation 17 (pension commencement lump sums based on pension errors) omit
paragraphs (4) and (5).

42.6

In regulation 18 (pension commencement lump sums paid in error: money purchase
arrangements) omit paragraphs (4) and (5).

42.7

In regulation 19 (pension commencement lump sums paid after death) omit
paragraphs (2) and (3).

42.8

In regulation 20 (part refund payments relating to short service), in
paragraph (1) for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

42.8.b

the member has not previously become entitled to any pension or lump sum under
the pension scheme;

.

##### Non-UK schemes

###### Amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004

43

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc) is amended as follows.

44

In section 244 (non-UK schemes: application of certain charges), after “under
this Part” insert  “, and under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income),” .

45

For section 244A (overseas transfer charge) substitute—

########## Overseas transfer charge: introduction

45.244AA

A charge to income tax, to be known as the overseas transfer charge, arises
under the following sections—

45.244AA.a

section 244AC  (overseas transfer charge: transfers where no exclusion
applies);

45.244AA.b

section 244IA  (overseas transfer charge: transfers exceeding available
allowance).

########## Overseas transfer charge: interpretation

45.244AB

45.244AB.1

In this section and in  sections 244AC  to 244N—

      “ former QROPS ” means a scheme that has at any time been a QROPS;
“ onward transfer ” means (subject to  subsection (3) ) a transfer of sums or
assets held for the purposes of, or representing accrued rights under, an
arrangement under a QROPS or a former QROPS in relation to a member so as to
become held for the purposes of, or to represent rights under, an arrangement
under another QROPS in relation to that person as a member of that other
QROPS;           “ original transfer ”, in relation to an onward transfer,
means (subject to  subsection (3) )—         the recognised transfer or
relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer in respect of which the following
conditions are met—         it is from a registered pension scheme or a
relieved relevant non-UK scheme to a QROPS,           the sums and assets
transferred by the onward transfer directly or indirectly derive from those
transferred by it, and           it is more recent than any other recognised
transfer or relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer in respect of which the
conditions in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) are met, or                 where
there is no such recognised transfer or relieved relevant non-UK scheme
transfer, the relevant transfer (see paragraph 1(6) of Schedule 34) in respect
of which the following conditions are met—         it is from a relevant non-
UK scheme (see paragraph 1(5) of Schedule 34),           it is a transfer of
the whole or part of the UK tax-relieved fund (see paragraph 3 of Schedule 34)
of a member of the scheme,           it is to a QROPS, and           the sums
and assets transferred by the onward transfer directly or indirectly derive
from those transferred by it;                       “ QROPS ” means a
qualifying recognised overseas pension scheme;           “ recognised transfer
” has the meaning given by section 169;           “ the relevant period ”
means—         in the case of a recognised transfer or a relieved relevant
non-UK scheme transfer made on 6 April in any year, the five years beginning
with the date of that transfer,           in the case of any other recognised
transfer or relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer, the period consisting of
the combination of—         the period beginning with the date of the transfer
and ending immediately before the next 6 April, and           the five years
beginning at the end of that initial period,                 in the case of an
onward transfer, the period—         beginning with the date of the transfer,
and           ending at the end of the relevant period for the original
transfer (see paragraphs (a) and (b) or, as the case may be, paragraphs (d)
and (e)),                 in the case of a relevant transfer that—         is
made on 6 April in any year, and           is the original transfer for an
onward transfer,         the five years beginning with the date of the
relevant transfer, and           in the case of a relevant transfer that—
is made otherwise than on 6 April in any year, and           is the original
transfer for an onward transfer,         the period consisting of the
combination of: the period beginning with the date of the relevant transfer
and ending immediately before the next 6 April; and the five years beginning
at the end of that initial period;                 “ relieved relevant non-UK
scheme ” means a pension scheme that is a relevant non-UK scheme within the
meaning of sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 34 in respect of which
at least one of paragraphs (a) to (c) of that sub-paragraph applies;
“ relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer ” means a transfer, other than a
block transfer, of sums or assets held for the purposes of, or representing
accrued rights under, an arrangement under a relieved relevant non-UK scheme
in relation to a relieved member of the scheme so as to become held for the
purposes of, or to represent rights under, an arrangement under a QROPS in
relation to that person as a member of that QROPS;           “ ring-fenced
transfer fund ”, in relation to a QROPS or former QROPS, has the meaning given
by paragraph 1 of Schedule 34.

45.244AB.2

For the purposes of the definition of “relieved relevant non-UK scheme
transfer”—

45.244AB.2.a

a transfer is “ a block transfer ” in relation to a member of a pension scheme
if it involves the transfer, in a single transaction, of all the sums and
assets held for the purposes of, or representing accrued rights under, the
arrangements under the scheme which relate to the member and at least one
other member of the scheme;

45.244AB.2.b

an individual is “a relieved member” of a relieved relevant non-UK scheme if—

45.244AB.2.b.i

any of the contributions in respect of which relief has been given as
mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of “relevant non-UK
scheme” in paragraph 1(5) of Schedule 34 were contributions paid by or on
behalf of, or in respect of, the individual, or

45.244AB.2.b.ii

the individual is the member, or one of the members, who has been exempt from
liability to tax as mentioned in paragraph (c) of that definition.

45.244AB.3

Where, apart from this subsection, there would be different original transfers
for different parts of an onward transfer, each such part of the onward
transfer is to be treated as a separate onward transfer for the purposes of
this section and  sections 244AC  to 244N.

########## Overseas transfer charge: transfers where no exclusion applies

45.244AC

45.244AC.1

The overseas transfer charge arises where—

45.244AC.1.a

a transfer within  subsection (2)  is made to a QROPS, and

45.244AC.1.b

the transfer is not excluded from the charge by or under any of sections 244B
to 244H.

45.244AC.2

A transfer to a QROPS is within this subsection if it is—

45.244AC.2.a

a recognised transfer,

45.244AC.2.b

a relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer, or

45.244AC.2.c

an onward transfer that is made during the relevant period for the original
transfer.

45.244AC.3

Sections 244B to 244H are subject to section 244I (circumstances in which
exclusions do not apply).

46

46.1

Section 244B (exclusion: member and receiving scheme in same country) is
amended as follows.

46.2

In subsection (1)—

46.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

46.2.a.i

after “recognised transfer to a QROPS” insert  “or a relieved relevant non-UK
scheme transfer” ;

46.2.a.ii

after “overseas transfer charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” ;

46.2.b

in paragraph (a), after “the QROPS” insert  “to which the transfer is made” ;

46.2.c

in paragraph (b), in sub-paragraph (i), after “recognised transfer” insert
“or relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer” .

46.3

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “overseas transfer
charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

47

47.1

Section 244C (exclusion: receiving scheme in EEA state or Gibraltar, and
member resident in UK or EEA state) is amended as follows.

47.2

In subsection (2)—

47.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

47.2.a.i

after “recognised transfer” insert  “or a relieved relevant non-UK scheme
transfer” ;

47.2.a.ii

after “overseas transfer charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

47.2.b

in paragraph (b), in sub-paragraph (i), after “recognised transfer” insert
“or relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer” .

47.3

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “recognised
transfer” insert  “or relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer” .

47.4

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), after “overseas transfer
charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

48

In section 244D (exclusion: receiving scheme is an occupational pension
scheme), in the words before paragraph (a), after “overseas transfer charge”
insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

49

In section 244E (exclusion: receiving scheme set up by international
organisation), in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after
“overseas transfer charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

50

In section 244F (exclusion: receiving scheme is an overseas public service
scheme), in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “overseas
transfer charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

51

51.1

Section 244G (exclusions: avoidance of double charge, and transitional
protections) is amended as follows.

51.2

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “overseas transfer
charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

51.3

In subsection (3), after “overseas transfer charge” insert  “under  section
244AC ” .

51.4

After subsection (4) insert—

51.4.5

An onward transfer is excluded from the overseas transfer charge under
section 244AC  where—

51.4.5.a

the overseas transfer charge under  section 244IA (1)  arose in relation to
the original transfer, and

51.4.5.b

none of the member’s overseas transfer allowance was available on the making
of the original transfer.

52

In section 244H (power to provide for further exclusions)—

52.a

for “or an onward transfer,” substitute  “a relieved relevant non-UK scheme
transfer or an onward transfer” ;

52.b

after “overseas transfer charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

53

In section 244I (circumstances in which exclusions do not apply), in
subsection (1)—

53.a

for “or an onward transfer,” substitute  “a relieved relevant non-UK scheme
transfer or an onward transfer” ;

53.b

after “overseas transfer charge” insert  “under  section 244AC ” .

54

After section 244I insert—

########## Overseas transfer charge: transfers exceeding available allowance

54.244IA

54.244IA.1

The overseas transfer charge arises where—

54.244IA.1.a

a transfer to a QROPS is made that is—

54.244IA.1.a.i

within  section 244AC (2) (a)  or  (b) , or

54.244IA.1.a.ii

an onward transfer within  section 244AC (2) (c)  in relation to which the
original transfer is a transfer within paragraph (b) of the definition of “
original transfer ” (see  section 244AB (1) ),

54.244IA.1.b

the transfer is excluded from the charge under  section 244AC  by or under any
of sections 244B to 244H, and

54.244IA.1.c

the transferred value (determined in accordance with section 244K) exceeds the
amount of the member’s overseas transfer allowance that is available on the
making of the transfer.

54.244IA.2

The overseas transfer charge also arises where—

54.244IA.2.a

a transfer of the kind mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  is made to a QROPS,

54.244IA.2.b

a charge under  section 244AC  (“ the original charge ”) arises in relation to
the transfer,

54.244IA.2.c

a person liable to the original charge becomes entitled under section 244M to
a repayment in respect of the original charge, and

54.244IA.2.d

the transferred value (determined in accordance with section 244K) exceeds the
amount of the member’s overseas transfer allowance that is available on the
making of the transfer.

########## Member’s overseas transfer allowance

54.244IB

A member’s “overseas transfer allowance” is an amount equal to the member’s
lump sum and death benefit allowance.

########## Availability of member’s overseas transfer allowance

54.244IC

54.244IC.1

This section is about the availability of a member’s overseas transfer
allowance on the making of a transfer of the kind mentioned in  section 244IA
(1) (a)  (“the current overseas transfer”).

54.244IC.2

If no transfer of the kind mentioned in  section 244IA (1) (a)  has been made
in relation to the member before the current overseas transfer, the whole of
the member’s overseas transfer allowance is available.

54.244IC.3

Otherwise, the amount of the member’s overseas transfer allowance that is
available is—

54.244IC.3.a

so much of that allowance as is left after deducting the previously-used
amount, or

54.244IC.3.b

if none is left after deducting that amount, nil.

54.244IC.4

For this purpose “the previously-used amount” is the aggregate of the
transferred value (determined in accordance with section 244K) of each
transfer (if any) of the kind mentioned in  section 244IA (1) (a)  that has
been made in relation to the member before the current overseas transfer.

54.244IC.5

A reference in this section to a transfer of the kind mentioned in  section
244IA (1) (a)  is to a transfer made on or after 6 April 2024.

55

55.1

Section 244J (persons liable to charge) is amended as follows.

55.2

After subsection (1) insert—

55.2.1A

In the case of a relieved relevant non-UK scheme transfer, the member is
liable to the overseas transfer charge.

55.3

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), for “transfer”
substitute  “recognised transfer to a QROPS or an onward transfer” .

56

After section 244J insert—

########## Amount of charge

56.244JA

56.244JA.1

Where the overseas transfer charge arises under  section 244AC  in relation to
a transfer, the charge is—

56.244JA.1.a

in a case where the transfer is an onward transfer and the overseas transfer
charge under  section 244IA (1)  arose in relation to the original transfer,
25% of so much of the transferred value of the original transfer as did not
exceed the amount of the member’s overseas transfer allowance that was
available on the making of the original transfer;

56.244JA.1.b

in any other case, 25% of the transferred value.

56.244JA.2

Where the overseas transfer charge arises under  section 244IA  in relation to
a transfer, the charge is 25% of so much of the transferred value as exceeds
the amount of the member’s overseas transfer allowance that is available on
the making of the transfer.

57

57.1

Section 244K (amount of charge) is amended as follows.

57.2

For the heading substitute  “Meaning of “transferred value”” .

57.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

57.3.1A

The transferred value, in relation to a transfer within  section 244AC (2) ,
is to be determined in accordance with this section.

57.4

In subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), for “(5)” substitute
“(6)” .

57.5

In subsection (3), in the words after paragraph (b), for “(5)” substitute
“(6)” .

57.6

After subsection (3) insert—

57.6.3A

If the transfer is a transfer from a relieved relevant non-UK scheme, the
transferred value is the total of—

57.6.3A.a

the amount of any sums transferred that are attributable to the member’s UK
tax-relieved fund (see paragraph 3 of Schedule 34), and

57.6.3A.b

the value of any assets transferred that are attributable to that fund,

but this is subject to subsections (6) to (9).

57.7

In subsection (4), in the words after paragraph (b), for “(5)” substitute
“(6)” .

57.8

Omit subsections (5) and (10).

58

In section 244M (repayments of charge on subsequent excluding events), in
subsection (1), in paragraph (a), for “overseas transfer charge” substitute
“the overseas transfer charge under  section 244AC ” .

59

59.1

Schedule 33 (overseas pension schemes: migrant member relief) is amended as
follows.

59.2

In paragraph 4 (meaning of “ relevant migrant member ”)—

59.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(d), after “events that are” insert  “relevant” ;

59.2.b

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

59.2.b.4

In this paragraph “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same
meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump
sum and death benefit allowance).

59.3

In paragraph 5 (meaning of “qualifying” overseas pension scheme)—

59.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), for “events that are benefit crystallisation” substitute
“relevant” ;

59.3.b

for sub-paragraph (2A) substitute—

59.3.b.2A

In sub-paragraph (2) “ relevant events ” means—

59.3.b.2A.a

relevant benefit crystallisation events, or

59.3.b.2A.b

occasions that are, or could (depending on their timing) be, occasions on
which an individual first flexibly accesses pension rights for the purposes of
sections 227B to 227F.

;

59.3.c

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

59.3.c.6

In this paragraph “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same
meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump
sum and death benefit allowance).

60

60.1

Schedule 34 (non-UK schemes: application of certain charges) is amended as
follows.

60.2

In paragraph 1 (member payment charges)—

60.2.a

in sub-paragraph (3), at the end of paragraph (d) insert  “and” ;

60.2.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for paragraphs (da), (db) and (e) substitute—

60.2.b.e

the charge to tax under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income) on pension
income to which—

60.2.b.e.i

any provision of Chapter 15A of that Part of that Act (lump sums under
registered pension schemes) applies, or

60.2.b.e.ii

section 579A of that Act (pension income under registered pension schemes)
applies by virtue of any provision of that Chapter.

;

60.2.c

in sub-paragraph (4), for paragraph (b) substitute—

60.2.c.b

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (lump sums under registered pension
schemes).

60.3

After paragraph 5 insert—

60.3.5ZA

60.3.5ZA.1

The provisions of  Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (lump sums under
registered pension schemes) do not apply in relation to—

60.3.5ZA.1.a

a serious ill-health lump sum paid to a transfer member of a relevant non-UK
scheme, or

60.3.5ZA.1.b

an authorised lump sum death benefit paid in respect of a transfer member of a
relevant non-UK scheme who (at the time of the payment) is under 75.

60.3.5ZA.2

In this paragraph “ authorised lump sum death benefit ” means a lump sum death
benefit permitted by the lump sum death benefit rule in section 168 of this
Act to be paid in respect of a member of a registered pension scheme.

60.4

Omit paragraphs 13 to 19 (lifetime allowance charge).

###### Amendments of Chapter 4 of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003

61

61.1

In Chapter 4 of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (foreign pensions), section 574A
(“pension”: relevant lump sums) is amended as follows.

61.2

After subsection (2) insert—

61.2.2A

A lump sum is not “a relevant lump sum” by virtue of subsection (2) if it is
within paragraph  5ZA (1) (a)  or  (b)  of Schedule 34 to FA 2004 (which
specify certain lump sums paid to or in respect of transfer members of
relevant non-UK schemes).

61.3

In subsection (3), in Step 3—

61.3.a

in paragraph (a) for “section 636B(3)” substitute  “ section 637G (2) ” ;

61.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “all or part of the member’s lifetime allowance is
available” substitute  “all of the member’s lump sum allowance is available” .

###### Amendments of the Pension Schemes (Application of UK Provisions to Relevant Non-UK Schemes) Regulations 2006

62

62.1

The Pension Schemes (Application of UK Provisions to Relevant Non-UK Schemes)
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/207 ) are amended as follows.

62.2

In regulation 1(2) (interpretation) omit the definition of “benefit
crystallisation event 8”.

62.3

In regulation 3 (computation of a member’s relevant transfer fund)—

62.3.a

the existing text becomes paragraph (1);

62.3.b

in sub-paragraph (a) of that paragraph—

62.3.b.i

omit “by virtue of benefit crystallisation event 8”;

62.3.b.ii

after “registered” insert  “pension” ;

62.3.c

after that paragraph insert—

62.3.c.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the “amount crystallised” on a transfer
from a UK registered scheme to a relevant non-UK scheme is the aggregate of
the amount of any sums transferred and the market value of any assets
transferred.

62.4

In regulation 3A (computation of a member’s taxable asset transfer fund)—

62.4.a

in paragraph (1)(a) omit “by virtue of benefit crystallisation event 8”;

62.4.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

62.4.b.3

For the purposes of this regulation, the “amount crystallised” on a transfer
from a UK registered pension scheme to a relevant non-UK scheme is the
aggregate of the amount of any sums transferred and the market value of any
assets transferred.

62.5

In regulation 4ZB (payment and crystallisation valuation), in paragraph (9),
for “paragraph 3(7C) of Schedule 29” substitute  “ section 278B ” .

62.6

In regulation 15 (modification of Schedule 29 (authorised lump sums:
definitions etc))—

62.6.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

62.6.a.1A

In  paragraph 3C  (pension commencement excess lump sum)—

62.6.a.1A.a

in  sub-paragraph (1) , after  paragraph (c)  insert—

62.6.a.1A.a.ca

it is not paid from the relevant transfer fund of a qualifying recognised
overseas pension scheme;

62.6.a.1A.a.cb

it is not paid from the UK tax-relieved fund of a relevant non-UK scheme.

;

62.6.a.1A.b

after  sub-paragraph (4)  insert—

62.6.a.1A.b.5

Expressions used in  sub-paragraph (1) (ca)  and  (cb)  have the same meaning
as in Schedule 34 (non-UK schemes: application of certain charges).

62.6.a.1B

In paragraph 4 (serious ill-health lump sum)—

62.6.a.1B.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a)—

62.6.a.1B.a.i

for “scheme administrator” substitute  “scheme manager” ;

62.6.a.1B.a.ii

after “registered medical practitioner” insert  “or a recognised medical
practitioner” ;

62.6.a.1B.b

at the end insert—

62.6.a.1B.b.4

In sub-paragraph (1) “ recognised medical practitioner ” means a medical
practitioner practising outside the United Kingdom who is authorised, licensed
or registered to practise medicine in the country or territory, outside the
United Kingdom, in which either the scheme or the member is resident.

62.6.a.1C

In paragraph 12A (references to availability of allowances) after sub-
paragraph (4) insert—

62.6.a.1C.5

Sub-paragraph  (6)  applies in any case in which it is necessary to determine,
for the purposes of—

62.6.a.1C.5.a

paragraph 1 (pension commencement lump sum),

62.6.a.1C.5.b

paragraph 7 (trivial commutation lump sum), or

62.6.a.1C.5.c

paragraph 10 (winding-up lump sum),

whether all or part of a transfer member’s lump sum allowance or lump sum and
death benefit allowance is available when a lump sum is paid by a recognised
overseas pension scheme.

62.6.a.1C.6

Sections  637Q  and  637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of allowances) have
effect as if references in those sections to relevant benefit crystallisation
events were only to relevant benefit crystallisation events—

62.6.a.1C.6.a

occurring in relation to the recognised overseas pension scheme, and

62.6.a.1C.6.b

in respect of lump sums referable to the member’s relevant transfer fund
(within the meaning given by paragraph 4 of Schedule 34 to FA 2004).

62.6.a.1C.7

In  sub-paragraph (5)  “ transfer member ” has the meaning given by paragraph
1(8) of Schedule 34 (non-UK schemes).

;

62.6.b

omit paragraphs (2) to (10).

62.7

In regulation 17 (modification of Schedule 34 (non-UK schemes: application of
certain charges)), in the inserted paragraph 19A (Revenue and Customs
discretion)—

62.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

62.7.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a)(ii) insert  “and” ;

62.7.a.ii

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” before it;

62.7.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(b), for “to (c)” substitute  “and (b)” ;

62.7.c

in sub-paragraph (4)(b), for “by” the first time it occurs substitute  “be” .

62.8

For regulation 18 (modification of section 636A(1B) (taxation of
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum paid to member who is 75 or over))
substitute—

############ Modifications of Chapter 15A of ITEPA 2003 in respect of relevant non-UK schemes

62.8.18

62.8.18.1

Paragraph (2) applies where an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum is paid
to a transfer member of a recognised overseas pension scheme.

62.8.18.2

In determining the amount of “ the permitted maximum ” for the purposes of
section 637D  of ITEPA 2003 (income tax treatment of uncrystallised funds
pension lump sums), sections  637Q  and  637S  of that Act (availability of
allowances) have effect as if references to relevant benefit crystallisation
events were only to relevant benefit crystallisation events—

62.8.18.2.a

occurring in relation to the recognised overseas pension scheme, and

62.8.18.2.b

in respect of lump sums referable to the member’s relevant transfer fund
(within the meaning given by paragraph 4 of Schedule 34 to FA 2004).

62.8.18.3

In sub-paragraph (1) “ transfer member ” has the meaning given by paragraph
1(8) of Schedule 34 to FA 2004 (non-UK schemes).

##### Transitional protections

###### Amendments of Schedule 29 to FA 2004

63

63.1

In Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (registered pension schemes: authorised lump sums:
supplementary), paragraph 4A (uncrystallised funds pension lump sum) is
amended as follows.

63.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

63.2.a

at the end of paragraph (e) insert  “and” ;

63.2.b

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (f);

63.2.c

omit paragraph (g).

63.3

Omit sub-paragraphs (3) to (6).

63.4

At the end insert—

63.4.8

For further provision about circumstances in which a lump sum is not an
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum, see the following provisions of Part 2
of Schedule 36 (transitional provision and saving: pre-commencement rights:
enhancement of allowances)—

63.4.8.a

paragraph 7 (8)  (enhancement of allowances: primary protection);

63.4.8.b

paragraph 12 (3H)  (enhancement of allowances: enhanced protection);

63.4.8.c

paragraph 18 (7)  (enhancement of allowances: pre-commencement pension
credits);

63.4.8.d

paragraph 20A (8)  (pension credits from previously crystallised rights);

63.4.8.e

paragraph 20B (8)  (individuals who are not always relevant UK individuals);

63.4.8.f

paragraph 20E (9)  (transfers from recognised overseas pension schemes).

###### Amendments of Schedule 34 to FA 2004

64

64.1

Schedule 34 to FA 2004 (non-UK schemes: application of certain charges) is
amended as follows.

64.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “and protections etc” .

64.3

After paragraph 12 (application of annual allowance provisions) insert—

############ Enhancement of allowances

64.3.12A

64.3.12A.1

The provisions of Schedule 36 relating to the enhancement of an individual’s
lump sum allowance and lump sum and death benefit allowance (“ the enhancement
of allowances provisions ”) apply in relation to an individual who is a
relieved member of a relieved non-UK pension scheme as if the relieved non-UK
pension scheme were a registered pension scheme.

64.3.12A.2

A pension scheme is a relieved non-UK pension scheme if—

64.3.12A.2.a

relief from tax has been given in respect of contributions paid under the
pension scheme by virtue of Schedule 33 (overseas pension schemes: migrant
member relief),

64.3.12A.2.b

relief from tax has been so given at any time after 5th April 2006 under
double tax arrangements, or

64.3.12A.2.c

a member of the pension scheme has been, or members of the pension scheme have
been, exempt from liability to tax by virtue of section 307 of ITEPA 2003
(exemption for provision made by employer for retirement or death benefit) in
respect of provision made under the pension scheme at any time after 5th April
2006 when the pension scheme was an overseas pension scheme.

64.3.12A.3

An individual is a relieved member of a relieved non-UK pension scheme if—

64.3.12A.3.a

any of the contributions in respect of which relief has been given as
mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  or  (b)  were contributions paid by or on
behalf of, or in respect of, the individual, or

64.3.12A.3.b

the individual is the member, or one of the members, who has been exempt from
liability to tax as mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (c) .

###### Amendments of Part 2 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004

65

Part 2 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 (transitional provision and saving: pre-
commencement rights: lifetime allowance charge) is amended as follows.

66

In the heading, for “lifetime allowance charge” substitute  “enhancement of
allowances etc” .

67

Before paragraph 7 and the italic heading before it insert—

########## Enhancement of lump sum allowance and lump sum and death benefit allowance

67.6A

67.6A.1

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies, in relation to a relevant benefit crystallisation
event occurring in relation to an individual, other than the individual
becoming entitled to a pension commencement lump sum or an uncrystallised
funds pension lump sum, where one or more lump sum and death benefit allowance
enhancement factors operate in relation to the relevant benefit
crystallisation event.

67.6A.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if the
amount specified in  section 637R  of that Act (individual’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance) were an amount equal to—

  A   +       A   ×   B             where—         A is—         in the case
of an individual in relation to whom a relevant protection provision applies
(see  sub-paragraph (3) ), the individual’s protected lump sum and death
benefit allowance (see  sub-paragraph (4) );           in any other case,
£1,073,100;                 B is the aggregate of the lump sum and death
benefit allowance enhancement factors that operate in relation to the relevant
benefit crystallisation event.

67.6A.3

The following provisions are “relevant protection provisions”—

67.6A.3.a

paragraph 7  of this Schedule (primary protection);

67.6A.3.b

paragraph 14 of Schedule 18 to FA 2011 (fixed protection);

67.6A.3.c

paragraph 1 of Schedule 22 to FA 2013 (“fixed protection 2014”);

67.6A.3.d

paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to FA 2014 (“individual protection 2014”);

67.6A.3.e

paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to FA 2016 (“fixed protection 2016”);

67.6A.3.f

paragraph 9 of that Schedule (“individual protection 2016”).

67.6A.4

In the case of an individual in relation to whom a relevant protection
provision applies, the individual’s “protected lump sum and death benefit
allowance” is the amount treated as specified in  section 637R  of ITEPA 2003
in relation to the individual by virtue of the relevant protection provision.

67.6A.5

The following paragraphs make provision for the operation of lump sum and
death benefit enhancement factors—

      paragraphs 7  to 11A (primary protection);           paragraph 18  (pre-
commencement pension credits);           paragraph 20A  (pension credits from
previously crystallised rights);           paragraphs 20B  to  20D
(individuals who are not always relevant UK individuals);           paragraphs
20E  to  20G  (transfers from recognised overseas pension schemes).

67.6A.6

Paragraphs 7  and  18  also make provision enhancing the amount of an
individual’s lump sum allowance.

67.6A.7

In this paragraph “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same
meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump
sum and death benefit allowance).

68

For paragraph 7 (primary protection) substitute—

68.7

68.7.1

This paragraph applies in the case of an individual where—

68.7.1.a

the amount of the relevant pre-commencement pension rights of the individual
exceeds £1,500,000, and

68.7.1.b

notice of intention to rely on this paragraph is given to His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs in accordance with regulations made by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

68.7.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect—

68.7.2.a

in relation to a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance)
occurring in relation to the individual, as if the amount specified in
section 637P  of ITEPA 2003 (individual’s lump sum allowance) were £375,000;

68.7.2.b

in relation to a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance) occurring in relation to the individual, as if the amount
specified in  section 637R  of ITEPA 2003 (individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance) were £1,800,000.

68.7.3

A lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor operates in relation
to the relevant benefit crystallisation event mentioned in  paragraph 6A (1) .

68.7.4

The lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor is the primary
protection factor.

68.7.5

The primary protection factor is—

      R   R   -   £   1   ,   500   ,   000       £   1   ,   500   ,   000
where RR is the amount of the relevant pre-commencement pension rights of the
individual (see  sub-paragraph (6) ).

68.7.6

The amount of the relevant pre-commencement rights of the individual is the
aggregate of—

68.7.6.a

the value of the individual’s relevant uncrystallised pension rights on 5th
April 2006 (calculated in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 9), and

68.7.6.b

the value of the individual’s relevant crystallised pension rights on that
date (calculated in accordance with paragraph 10).

68.7.7

Sub-paragraph (5)  is subject to paragraph 11 (pension debit on or after 6th
April 2006) and paragraph 11A (pension debit on or after 6th April 2006: lump
sum death benefits).

68.7.8

Where this paragraph applies in the case of an individual, for the purposes of
this Part a lump sum is not an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (see
paragraph 4A of Schedule 29) if—

68.7.8.a

the lump sum condition (see paragraphs 24(2) and (3), 25 and 26 of this
Schedule) is met in relation to the individual, or

68.7.8.b

immediately before the lump sum is paid, the amount given by the formula in
sub-paragraph (9)  is less than 25% of the lump sum.

68.7.9

The formula is—

      £   1   ,   800   ,   000   -   A     4           where A is the amount
that would be the previously-used amount within the meaning of  section 637S
of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) if a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
that section had occurred immediately before the lump sum is paid.

69

69.1

Paragraph 11 (primary protection: pension debit on or after 6th April 2006) is
amended as follows.

69.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “makes provision for the operation of a lifetime
allowance enhancement factor” substitute  “applies” .

69.3

In sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), for “paragraph 7(3)” substitute  “ paragraph 7
(5) ” .

69.4

In sub-paragraph (4), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute
“relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

69.5

After that sub-paragraph insert—

69.5.5

In this paragraph “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same
meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump
sum and death benefit allowance).

70

70.1

Paragraph 11A (primary protection: pension debit on or after 6th April 2006:
lump sum death benefits) is amended as follows.

70.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “makes provision for the operation of a lifetime
allowance enhancement factor” substitute  “applies” .

70.3

In paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-paragraph (4), for “benefit crystallisation
event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

70.4

After that sub-paragraph insert—

70.4.5

In this paragraph “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same
meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump
sum and death benefit allowance).

71

71.1

Paragraph 12 (enhanced protection) is amended as follows.

71.2

For sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

71.2.3A

Where this paragraph applies in the case of an individual,  Chapter 15A  of
Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under registered pension
schemes) and Part 4 of FA 2004 (pensions etc) have effect in relation to the
individual with the modifications in  sub-paragraphs (3B)  to  (3F) .

71.2.3B

For the purposes of determining the income tax treatment of a lump sum or a
lump sum death benefit—

71.2.3B.a

section 637C  of that Act (serious ill-health lump sums) has effect as if, in
subsection (3)  of that section (which defines the permitted maximum), for the
words from “so much of” to the end there were substituted  “the maximum amount
of a serious ill-health lump sum that could have been paid to the individual
on 5 April 2024 under the arrangement pursuant to which the individual becomes
entitled to the serious ill-health lump sum” ;

71.2.3B.b

section 637D  of that Act (uncrystallised funds pension lump sums) has effect
as if—

71.2.3B.b.i

in  subsection (3)  of that section (which defines the permitted maximum), for
paragraph (b)  there were substituted—

71.2.3B.b.i.b

the maximum amount of an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum that could have
been paid to the individual with no liability to income tax on 5 April 2024
under the arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the uncrystallised
funds pension lump sum arises in respect of the individual.

;

71.2.3B.b.ii

after that subsection there were inserted—

71.2.3B.b.ii.4

But in a case where the individual has previously become entitled to a serious
ill-health lump sum—

71.2.3B.b.ii.4.a

subsection (3)  does not apply, and

71.2.3B.b.ii.4.b

in  subsection (2)  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to an
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum paid to the member, is nil.

;

71.2.3B.c

section 637H  of that Act (defined benefits lump sum death benefits) has
effect as if, in  subsection (7)  of that section, in the definition of “the
permitted maximum”, for the words from “so much of” to the end there were
substituted

—

71.2.3B.c.a

the maximum amount of a defined benefits lump sum death benefit that could
have been paid in respect of the individual on 5 April 2024 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the defined benefits lump sum
death benefit arises in respect of the individual, less

71.2.3B.c.b

the aggregate of the non-taxable amounts within the meaning given by  section
637S (6)  of each authorised lump sum death benefit (if any) previously paid
in respect of the individual under that arrangement after that date;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

;

71.2.3B.d

section 637I  of that Act (pension protection lump sum death benefits) has
effect as if, in  subsection (5)  of that section, in the definition of “the
permitted maximum”, for the words from “so much of” to the end there were
substituted

—

71.2.3B.d.a

the maximum amount of a pension protection lump sum death benefit that could
have been paid in respect of the individual on 5 April 2024 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the pension protection lump
sum death benefit arises in respect of the individual, less

71.2.3B.d.b

the aggregate of the non-taxable amounts within the meaning given by  section
637S (6)  of each authorised lump sum death benefit (if any) previously paid
in respect of the individual under that arrangement after that date;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

;

71.2.3B.e

section 637J  of that Act (uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefits) has
effect as if, in  subsection (7) , in the definition of “the permitted
maximum”, for the words from “so much of” to the end there were substituted

—

71.2.3B.e.a

the maximum amount of an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit that
could have been paid in respect of the individual on 5 April 2024 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the uncrystallised funds lump
sum death benefit arises in respect of the individual, less

71.2.3B.e.b

the aggregate of the non-taxable amounts within the meaning given by  section
637S (6)  of each authorised lump sum death benefit (if any) previously paid
in respect of the individual under that arrangement after that date;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

;

71.2.3B.f

section 637K  of that Act (annuity protection lump sum death benefits) has
effect as if, in  subsection (5) , in the definition of “the permitted
maximum”, for the words from “so much of” to the end there were substituted

—

71.2.3B.f.a

the maximum amount of an annuity protection lump sum death benefit that could
have been paid in respect of the individual on 5 April 2024 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the annuity protection lump
sum death benefit arises in respect of the individual, less

71.2.3B.f.b

the aggregate of the non-taxable amounts within the meaning given by  section
637S (6)  of each authorised lump sum death benefit (if any) previously paid
in respect of the individual under that arrangement after that date;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

;

71.2.3B.g

section 637L  of that Act (drawdown pension fund lump sum death benefits) has
effect as if, in  subsection (8) , in the definition of “the permitted
maximum”, for the words from “so much of” to the end there were substituted

—

71.2.3B.g.a

the maximum amount of a drawdown pension fund lump sum death benefit that
could have been paid in respect of the individual on 5 April 2024 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the drawdown pension fund
lump sum death benefit arises in respect of the individual, less

71.2.3B.g.b

the aggregate of the non-taxable amounts within the meaning given by  section
637S (6)  of each authorised lump sum death benefit (if any) previously paid
in respect of the individual under that arrangement after that date;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

;

71.2.3B.h

section 637M  of that Act (flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefits) has
effect as if, in  subsection (8) , in the definition of “the permitted
maximum”, for the words from “so much of” to the end there were substituted

—

71.2.3B.h.a

the maximum amount of a flexi-access drawdown lump sum death benefit that
could have been paid in respect of the individual on 5 April 2024 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the flexi-access drawdown
lump sum death benefit arises in respect of the individual, less

71.2.3B.h.b

the aggregate of the non-taxable amounts within the meaning given by  section
637S (6)  of each authorised lump sum death benefit (if any) previously paid
in respect of the individual under that arrangement after that date;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

;

71.2.3B.i

Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (pension commencement lump sum: definition of
“permitted maximum”) has effect as if—

71.2.3B.i.i

in  paragraph 2 , sub-paragraph  (c)  were omitted;

71.2.3B.i.ii

after  paragraph 2  there were inserted—

71.2.3B.i.ii.2ZA

In the case of an individual who has previously become entitled to a serious
ill-health lump sum—

71.2.3B.i.ii.2ZA.a

paragraph 2  does not apply, and

71.2.3B.i.ii.2ZA.b

in paragraph 1 “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a lump sum, is nil.

71.2.3C

For the purposes of the modifications made by  sub-paragraph (3B) , the
maximum amount of a serious ill-health lump sum or a lump sum death benefit
that could have been paid in respect of an individual on 5 April 2024 under an
arrangement that is a defined benefits arrangement is an amount equal to the
appropriate limit, determined under paragraph 15(4), in relation to payment of
the serious ill-health lump sum or the lump sum death benefit.

71.2.3D

For the purposes of the modifications made by  sub-paragraph (3B)  “
authorised lump sum death benefit ” means a lump sum death benefit authorised
to be paid by the lump sum death benefit rule.

71.2.3E

Section 637P  of ITEPA 2003 (individual’s lump sum allowance) applies as if
the amount specified in that section were £375,000.

71.2.3F

Section 637R  of ITEPA 2003 (individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) applies as if the amount specified in that section were an amount
equal to the value of the individual’s uncrystallised pension rights on 5
April 2024.

71.2.3G

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
make provision about how the value of the individual’s uncrystallised pension
rights on 5 April 2024 is to be determined for the purposes of  sub-paragraph
(3F) .

71.2.3H

Where this paragraph applies in the case of an individual, for the purposes of
this Part a lump sum is not an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (see
paragraph 4A of Schedule 29) if the lump sum condition (see paragraphs 24(2)
and (3), 25 and 26 of this Schedule) is met in relation to the individual.

72

In paragraph 13 (enhanced protection: relevant benefit accrual), in sub-
paragraph (b), for “a benefit crystallisation event or” substitute  “the
individual becomes entitled to any pension or lump sum or a” .

73

73.1

Paragraph 15 (enhanced protection: relevant benefit accrual: interpretation)
is amended as follows.

73.2

In sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a)—

73.2.a

after “relevant event is a” insert  “relevant” ;

73.2.b

omit “which is not a benefit crystallisation event”.

73.3

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

73.3.2A

In sub-paragraph (2) “ relevant permitted transfer ” means a permitted
transfer that is not a transfer of sums or assets held for the purposes of, or
representing accrued rights under, any of the relevant pension schemes so as
to become held for the purposes of, or to represent rights under, a qualifying
recognised overseas pension scheme in connection with the individual’s
membership of that pension scheme.

74

In paragraph 16 (post-commencement earnings limit), in subsection (3), for the
words from “7.5%” to the end substitute  “£135,000.”

75

For paragraph 18 (pre-commencement pension credits) substitute—

75.18

75.18.1

This paragraph applies in the case of an individual where—

75.18.1.a

before 6th April 2006, the individual has acquired rights under a pension
scheme within paragraph 1(1) by virtue of having become entitled to a pension
credit,

75.18.1.b

notice of intention to rely on this paragraph is given to His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs in accordance with regulations made by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, and

75.18.1.c

paragraph 7  (primary protection) does not apply in relation to the
individual.

75.18.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect, in relation to a relevant benefit
crystallisation event within the meaning of  section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003
(availability of individual’s lump sum allowance) occurring in relation to the
individual, as if the amount specified in  section 637P  of ITEPA 2003
(individual’s lump sum allowance) were the lower of—

75.18.2.a

an amount equal to £268,275 increased by the pre-commencement pension credit
factor calculated under  sub-paragraph (5) , and

75.18.2.b

£375,000.

75.18.3

A lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor operates in relation
to the relevant benefit crystallisation event mentioned in  paragraph 6A (1) .

75.18.4

The lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor is the pre-
commencement pension credit factor calculated under  sub-paragraph (5) .

75.18.5

The pre-commencement pension credit factor is—

    A     £   1   ,   500   ,   000             where A is the amount which is
the appropriate amount for the purposes of section 29(1) of WRPA 1999 or
Article 26(1) of WRP(NI)O 1999 in relation to the pension credit, as increased
by the percentage specified in  sub-paragraph (6) .

75.18.6

The percentage is the percentage by which the retail prices index for April
2006 is greater than that for the month in which the rights were acquired.

75.18.7

Where this paragraph applies in the case of an individual, for the purposes of
this Part a lump sum is not an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (see
paragraph 4A of Schedule 29) if, immediately before the lump sum is paid, the
amount given by the formula in  sub-paragraph (8)  is less than 25% of the
lump sum.

75.18.8

The formula is—

      A   -   B     4           where—         A is—         in the case of an
individual in relation to whom a relevant protection provision applies, the
individual’s protected lump sum and death benefit allowance (see  paragraph 6A
(4) );           in any other case, £1,073,100;                 B is the
amount that would be the previously-used amount within the meaning of  section
637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) if a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
that section had occurred immediately before the lump sum is paid.

76

76.1

Paragraph 19 (individuals permitted to take pension before normal minimum
pension age) is amended as follows.

76.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

76.3

After that paragraph insert—

76.3.1A

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual with the
modifications in  sub-paragraphs (1B)  and  (2) .

76.3.1B

Where the relevant benefit crystallisation event is the individual becoming
entitled to a pension commencement lump sum,  section 637P  of ITEPA 2003
(individual’s lump sum allowance) applies as if the amount specified in that
section were £268,275 reduced by the relevant percentage (see sub-paragraph
(4).

76.4

For sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

76.4.2

Where the event is a relevant benefit crystallisation event,  section 637R  of
ITEPA 2003 (individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance) applies as if
the amount specified in that section were the amount determined under  sub-
paragraph (2A)  reduced by the relevant percentage (see sub-paragraph (4).

76.4.2A

That amount is—

76.4.2A.a

£1,073,100, or

76.4.2A.b

in a case where, disregarding  sub-paragraph (2) ,  section 637R  of ITEPA
2003 (individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance) would apply in
relation to the individual as if it specified any other amount, that amount.

76.5

In sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute
“relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

76.6

Omit sub-paragraphs (5) and (6).

76.7

At the end insert—

76.7.7

In this paragraph “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same
meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump
sum and death benefit allowance).

77

77.1

Paragraph 20 (pre-commencement pensions) is amended as follows.

77.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

77.2.a

the words from “has an actual (rather than a prospective) right” to the end
become paragraph (a);

77.2.b

after that paragraph insert

, and

77.2.b.b

during the period beginning on 5th April 2006 and ending on 5th April 2024, no
benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of section 216 as that
provision had effect at the end of that period has occurred in relation to the
individual.

77.3

After sub-paragraph (1) insert—

77.3.1A

Section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance)
applies as if, immediately before the first relevant benefit crystallisation
event occurring in relation to the individual on or after 6th April 2024—

77.3.1A.a

a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of that section
had occurred in relation to the individual, and

77.3.1A.b

the amount of the lump sum to which the relevant benefit crystallisation event
relates was an amount equal to 25% of the value of the individual’s pre-
commencement pension rights immediately before the relevant benefit
crystallisation event.

77.4

In sub-paragraph (2)—

77.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

77.4.a.i

for “Section 219 (availability of individual’s lifetime allowance)” substitute
“ Section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance)” ;

77.4.a.ii

for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit
crystallisation event” ;

77.4.b

in paragraph (a), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of that section” ;

77.4.c

in paragraph (b)—

77.4.c.i

for “amount crystallised was” substitute  “amount of the lump sum or lump sum
death benefit to which the relevant benefit crystallisation event relates was
25% of” ;

77.4.c.ii

for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit
crystallisation event” .

78

After paragraph 20 insert—

########## Pension credits from previously crystallised rights

78.20A

78.20A.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a relevant benefit crystallisation event
occurring in relation to an individual where—

78.20A.1.a

the individual has (at any time after 5th April 2006 but before 6th April
2024) acquired rights under a registered pension scheme by reason of having
become entitled to a pension credit,

78.20A.1.b

the pension credit derived from the same or another registered pension scheme,

78.20A.1.c

the rights under the registered pension scheme which became subject to the
corresponding pension debit consisted of, or included, rights to a post-
commencement pension in payment, and

78.20A.1.d

notice of intention to rely on this paragraph is given to His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs in accordance with regulations made by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

78.20A.2

“ Post-commencement pension in payment ” means a pension to which a person
became entitled on or after 6th April 2006.

78.20A.3

A lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor operates in relation
to the relevant benefit crystallisation event mentioned in  paragraph 6A (1) .

78.20A.4

The lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor is the pension
credit factor.

78.20A.5

The pension credit factor is—

    A     £   1   ,   000   ,   000             where A is the post-
commencement pension in payment portion of the amount which is the appropriate
amount for the purposes of section 29(1) of WRPA 1999 or Article 26(1) of
WRP(NI)O 1999 in relation to the pension credit.

78.20A.6

The post-commencement pension in payment portion of the appropriate amount
referred to in the definition of A—

78.20A.6.a

in a case where the appropriate amount is arrived at under section 29(2) or
(3)(b) of WRPA 1999 or Article 26(2) or (3)(b) of WRP(NI)O 1999, is so much of
that amount as is attributable to rights to a post-commencement pension in
payment;

78.20A.6.b

in a case where the appropriate amount is arrived at under section 29(3)(a) of
WRPA 1999 or Article 26(3)(a) of WRP(NI)O 1999, is so much of that amount as
is just and reasonable.

78.20A.7

In this paragraph and in  paragraphs 20B  to  20G , “ relevant benefit
crystallisation event ” has the same meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA
2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance).

78.20A.8

Where this paragraph applies, for the purposes of this Part a lump sum is not
an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (see paragraph 4A of Schedule 29) if,
immediately before the lump sum is paid, the amount given by the formula in
sub-paragraph (9)  is less than 25% of the lump sum.

78.20A.9

The formula is—

      A   -   B     4           where—         A is—         in the case of an
individual in relation to whom a relevant protection provision applies, the
individual’s protected lump sum and death benefit allowance (see  paragraph 6A
(4) );           in any other case, £1,073,100;                 B is the
amount that would be the previously-used amount within the meaning of  section
637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) if a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
that section had occurred immediately before the lump sum is paid.

########## Non-residence: general

78.20B

78.20B.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a relevant benefit crystallisation event
occurring in relation to an individual where—

78.20B.1.a

during any part of the period that is the active membership period in relation
to an arrangement relating to the individual under a registered pension
scheme, the individual is a relevant overseas individual, and

78.20B.1.b

notice of intention to rely on this paragraph is given to His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs in accordance with regulations made by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

78.20B.2

A lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor operates in relation
to the relevant benefit crystallisation event mentioned in  paragraph 6A (1) .

78.20B.3

Paragraph 20C  provides the lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement
factor in the case of an arrangement that is a money purchase arrangement.

78.20B.4

Paragraph 20D  provides the lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement
factor in the case of any other arrangement.

78.20B.5

For the purposes of this Part an individual is a relevant overseas individual
at any time if, at that time, the individual either is not a relevant UK
individual or—

78.20B.5.a

is a relevant UK individual by virtue only of paragraph (c) of section 189(1)
(individuals resident in UK at some time in previous five tax years), and

78.20B.5.b

is not employed by a person resident in the United Kingdom.

78.20B.6

In this paragraph and in  paragraphs 20C  and  20D  “ the active membership
period ”, in relation to an arrangement relating to the individual, is the
period—

78.20B.6.a

beginning with the date on which the benefits first began to accrue to or in
respect of the individual under the arrangement or, if later, 6th April 2006,
and

78.20B.6.b

ending on 5th April 2024.

78.20B.7

But if benefits ceased to accrue to or in respect of the individual under the
arrangement at a time before 5th April 2024, the active membership period is
to be treated as having ended at that time.

78.20B.8

Where this paragraph applies, for the purposes of this Part a lump sum is not
an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (see paragraph 4A of Schedule 29) if,
immediately before the lump sum is paid, the amount given by the formula in
sub-paragraph (9)  is less than 25% of the lump sum.

78.20B.9

The formula is—

      A   -   B     4           where—         A is—         in the case of an
individual in relation to whom a relevant protection provision applies, the
individual’s protected lump sum and death benefit allowance (see  paragraph 6A
(4) );           in any other case, £1,073,100;                 B is the
amount that would be the previously-used amount within the meaning of  section
637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) if a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
that section had occurred immediately before the lump sum is paid.

########## Non-residence: money purchase arrangements

78.20C

78.20C.1

This paragraph applies in the case of an arrangement that is a money purchase
arrangement.

78.20C.2

The lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor is—

78.20C.2.a

if the arrangement is a cash balance arrangement, the cash balance arrangement
non-residence factor (see  sub-paragraphs (3)  to  (5) ), and

78.20C.2.b

in any other case, the other money purchase arrangement non-residence factor
(see  sub-paragraphs (6)  and  (7) ).

78.20C.3

The cash balance arrangement non-residence factor is—

78.20C.3.a

the factor arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to
the part of the active membership period during which the individual was a
relevant overseas individual, or

78.20C.3.b

if there have been two or more parts of that period during which the
individual was a relevant overseas individual, the aggregate of the factors
arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to each of
those parts of that period.

78.20C.4

The factor arrived at by the application of this subsection in relation to any
part of the active membership period is—

      A   -   B       £   1   ,   000   ,   000             where—         A
is the closing value of the individual’s rights under the arrangement;
B is the opening value of the individual’s rights under the arrangement.

78.20C.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (4) —

78.20C.5.a

the closing value of the individual's rights under the arrangement is the
amount which would, on the valuation assumptions (see section 277), be
available for the provision of benefits to or in respect of the individual
under the arrangement if the individual became entitled to the benefits at the
end of that part of that period, and

78.20C.5.b

the opening value of the individual's rights under the arrangement is the
amount which would, on the valuation assumptions, be available for the
provision of benefits to or in respect of the individual under the arrangement
if the individual became entitled to the benefits at the beginning of that
part of that period.

78.20C.6

The other money purchase arrangement non-residence factor is—

78.20C.6.a

the factor arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (7)  in relation to
the part of the active membership period during which the individual was a
relevant overseas individual, or

78.20C.6.b

if there have been two or more parts of that period during which the
individual was a relevant overseas individual, the aggregate of the factors
arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (7)  in relation to each of
those parts of that period.

78.20C.7

The factor arrived at by the application of this sub-paragraph in relation to
any part of the active membership period is—

    C     £   1   ,   000   ,   000             where C is the amount of the
contributions made under the arrangement by or in respect of the individual in
any part of the active membership period during which the individual is a
relevant overseas individual.

########## Non-residence: other arrangements

78.20D

78.20D.1

This paragraph applies in the case of an arrangement that is not a money
purchase arrangement.

78.20D.2

The lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor is—

78.20D.2.a

if the arrangement is a defined benefits arrangement, the defined benefits
arrangement non-residence factor (see  sub-paragraphs (3)  and  (4) ), and

78.20D.2.b

if the arrangement is a hybrid arrangement, the hybrid arrangement non-
residence factor (see  sub-paragraphs (5)  to  (7) ).

78.20D.3

The defined benefits arrangement non-residence factor is—

78.20D.3.a

the factor arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to
the part of the active membership period during which the individual was a
relevant overseas individual, or

78.20D.3.b

if there have been two or more parts of that period during which the
individual was a relevant overseas individual, the aggregate of the factors
arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to each of
those parts of that period.

78.20D.4

The factor arrived at by the application of this sub-paragraph in relation to
any part of the active membership period is—

          A   ×   B   +   C       -       A   ×   D   +   E           £   1
,   000   ,   000             where—         A is the relevant valuation
factor (see section 276);           B is the amount of the annual rate of the
pension which would, on the valuation assumptions (see section 277), be
payable to the individual under the arrangement if the individual became
entitled to payment of it at the end of that part of that period;           C
is the amount of the lump sum to which the individual would, on the valuation
assumptions, be entitled under the arrangement t (otherwise than by
commutation of pension) if the individual became entitled to payment of it at
the end of that part of that period;           D is the amount of the annual
rate of the pension which would, on the valuation assumptions, be payable to
the individual under the arrangement if the individual became entitled to
payment of it at the beginning of that part of that period;           E is the
amount of the lump sum to which the individual would, on the valuation
assumptions, be entitled under the arrangement (otherwise than by commutation
of pension) if the individual became entitled to payment of it at the
beginning of that part of that period.

78.20D.5

The hybrid arrangement non-residence factor is the greater or greatest of such
of—

78.20D.5.a

what would be the cash balance arrangement non-residence factor (under section
222) if the arrangement were a cash balance arrangement,

78.20D.5.b

what would be the other money purchase arrangement non-residence factor (under
that section) if the arrangement were a collective money purchase arrangement,

78.20D.5.c

what would be the other money purchase arrangement non-residence factor (under
that section) if the arrangement were a money purchase arrangement other than
a cash balance arrangement or a collective money purchase arrangement, and

78.20D.5.d

what would be the defined benefits arrangement non-residence factor (under
sub-paragraphs (3)  and  (4) ) if the arrangement were a defined benefits
arrangement,

as are relevant factors in relation to the arrangement.

78.20D.6

A factor is a relevant factor in relation to a hybrid arrangement if, in any
circumstances, the benefits that may be provided to or in respect of the
individual under the arrangement may be benefits linked to that factor.

78.20D.7

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (6) —

78.20D.7.a

cash balance benefits are linked to the cash balance arrangement non-residence
factor;

78.20D.7.b

other money purchase benefits are linked to the other money purchase
arrangement non-residence factor;

78.20D.7.c

defined benefits are linked to the defined benefits arrangement non-residence
factor.

########## Transfers from recognised overseas pension scheme: general

78.20E

78.20E.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a relevant benefit crystallisation event
occurring in relation to an individual where—

78.20E.1.a

at any time after 5th April 2006 but before 6th April 2024, there has been a
recognised overseas scheme transfer, and

78.20E.1.b

notice of intention to rely on it is given to His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs in accordance with regulations made by the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

78.20E.2

There is a “recognised overseas scheme transfer” if any sums or assets—

78.20E.2.a

held for the purposes of an arrangement under a recognised overseas pension
scheme, or

78.20E.2.b

representing accrued rights under such an arrangement,

are transferred so as to become held for the purposes of, or to represent
rights under, an arrangement under a registered pension scheme relating to the
individual.

78.20E.3

The arrangement specified in  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  or  (b)  is referred to
in this paragraph and in  paragraphs 20F  and  20G  as the “recognised
overseas scheme arrangement”.

78.20E.4

A lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor operates in relation
to the relevant benefit crystallisation event mentioned in  paragraph 6A (1) .

78.20E.5

The lump sum and death benefit allowance enhancement factor is the recognised
overseas scheme transfer factor.

78.20E.6

The recognised overseas scheme transfer factor is—

      A   -   B       £   1   ,   000   ,   000             where—         A
is the aggregate of the amount of any sums transferred, and the market value
of any assets transferred, on the recognised overseas scheme transfer;
B is the relevant relievable amount (see  paragraphs 20F  and  20G ).

78.20E.7

In this paragraph and in  paragraphs 20F  and  20G  “the overseas arrangement
active membership period” is the period—

78.20E.7.a

beginning with the date on which the benefits first began to accrue to or in
respect of the individual under the recognised overseas scheme arrangement or,
if later, 6th April 2006, and

78.20E.7.b

ending on 5th April 2024.

78.20E.8

But if benefits ceased to accrue to or in respect of the individual under the
recognised overseas scheme arrangement at a time before 5th April 2024, the
overseas arrangement active membership period is to be treated as having ended
at that time.

78.20E.9

Where this paragraph applies, for the purposes of this Part a lump sum is not
an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (see paragraph 4A of Schedule 29) if,
immediately before the lump sum is paid, the amount given by the formula in
sub-paragraph (10)  is less than 25% of the lump sum.

78.20E.10

The formula is—

      A   -   B     4           where—         A is—         in the case of an
individual in relation to whom a relevant protection provision applies, the
individual’s protected lump sum and death benefit allowance (see  paragraph 6A
(4) );           in any other case, £1,073,100;                 B is the
amount that would be the previously-used amount within the meaning of  section
637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) if a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of
that section had occurred immediately before the lump sum is paid.

########## Overseas scheme transfers: money purchase arrangements

78.20F

78.20F.1

This paragraph applies in the case of a recognised overseas scheme arrangement
that was a money purchase arrangement.

78.20F.2

The relevant relievable amount is—

78.20F.2.a

if the recognised overseas scheme arrangement was a cash balance arrangement,
the cash balance relevant relievable amount (see  sub-paragraphs (3)  to  (5)
), and

78.20F.2.b

if the recognised overseas scheme arrangement was any other sort of money
purchase arrangement, the other money purchase relevant relievable amount (see
sub-paragraphs (6)  and  (7) ).

78.20F.3

The cash balance relevant relievable amount is—

78.20F.3.a

the amount arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to
the part of the overseas arrangement active membership period during which the
individual was not a relevant overseas individual, or

78.20F.3.b

if there have been two or more parts of that period during which the
individual was not a relevant overseas individual, the aggregate of the
amounts arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to
each of those parts of that period.

78.20F.4

The amount arrived at by the application of this subsection in relation to any
part of the overseas arrangement active membership period is—

  A   -   B         where—         A is the closing value of the individual’s
rights under the arrangement, and           B is the opening value of the
individual’s rights under the arrangement.

78.20F.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (4) —

78.20F.5.a

the closing value of the individual's rights under the recognised overseas
scheme arrangement is the amount which would, on the valuation assumptions
(see section 277), be available for the provision of benefits to or in respect
of the individual under the arrangement if the individual became entitled to
the benefits at the end of that part of that period, and

78.20F.5.b

the opening value of the individual's rights under the arrangement is the
amount which would, on the valuation assumptions, be available for the
provision of benefits to or in respect of the individual under the arrangement
if the individual became entitled to the benefits at the beginning of that
part of that period.

78.20F.6

The other money purchase relevant relievable amount is—

78.20F.6.a

the amount arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (7)  in relation to
the part of the overseas arrangement active membership period during which the
individual was not a relevant overseas individual, or

78.20F.6.b

if there have been two or more parts of that period during which the
individual was not a relevant overseas individual, the aggregate of the
amounts arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (7)  in relation to
each of those parts of that period.

78.20F.7

The amount arrived at by the application of this sub-paragraph in relation to
any part of the overseas arrangement active membership period is the amount of
the contributions made under the arrangement by or in respect of the
individual in any part of the overseas arrangement active membership period
during which the individual was not a relevant overseas individual.

########## Overseas scheme transfers: other arrangements

78.20G

78.20G.1

This section applies in the case of a recognised overseas scheme arrangement
that was not a money purchase arrangement.

78.20G.2

The relevant relievable amount is—

78.20G.2.a

if the recognised overseas scheme arrangement was a defined benefits
arrangement, the defined benefits relevant relievable amount (see  sub-
paragraphs (3)  and  (4) ), and

78.20G.2.b

if the recognised overseas scheme arrangement was a hybrid arrangement, the
hybrid relevant relievable amount (see  sub-paragraph (5)  to  (7) ).

78.20G.3

The defined benefits relevant relievable amount is—

78.20G.3.a

the amount arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to
the part of the overseas arrangement active membership period during which the
individual was not a relevant overseas individual, or

78.20G.3.b

if there have been two or more parts of that period during which the
individual was not a relevant overseas individual, the aggregate of the
amounts arrived at by the application of  sub-paragraph (4)  in relation to
each of those parts of that period.

78.20G.4

The amount arrived at by the application of this subsection in relation to any
part of the overseas arrangement active membership period is—

      A   ×   B   +   C       -       A   ×   D   +   E             where—
A is the relevant valuation factor (see section 276);           B is the
annual rate of the pension which would, on the valuation assumptions (see
section 277), be payable to the individual under the recognised overseas
scheme arrangement if the individual became entitled to payment of it at the
end of that part of that period;           C is the amount of the lump sum to
which the individual would, on the valuation assumptions, be entitled under
the arrangement (otherwise than by commutation of pension) if the individual
became entitled to payment of it at the end of that part of that period;
D is the annual rate of the pension which would, on the valuation assumptions,
be payable to the individual under the arrangement if the individual became
entitled to payment of it at the beginning of that part of that period;
E is the amount of the lump sum to which the individual would, on the
valuation assumptions, be entitled under the arrangement (otherwise than by
commutation of pension) if the individual became entitled to payment of it at
the beginning of that part of that period.

78.20G.5

The hybrid relevant relievable amount is the greater or greatest of such of—

78.20G.5.a

what would be the cash balance relevant relievable amount (under section 225)
if the recognised overseas scheme arrangement had been a cash balance
arrangement,

78.20G.5.b

what would be the other money purchase relevant relievable amount (under that
section) if that arrangement had been a collective money purchase arrangement,

78.20G.5.c

what would be the other money purchase relevant relievable amount (under that
section) if that arrangement had been a money purchase arrangement other than
a cash balance arrangement or a collective money purchase arrangement, and

78.20G.5.d

what would be the defined benefits relevant relievable amount (under  sub-
paragraph (3)  and  (4) ) if that arrangement had been a defined benefits
arrangement,

as are relevant to that arrangement.

78.20G.6

An amount is relevant to a hybrid arrangement if, in any circumstances, the
benefits that may be provided to or in respect of the individual under the
arrangement may be benefits linked to that amount.

78.20G.7

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (6) —

78.20G.7.a

cash balance benefits are linked to the cash balance relevant relievable
amount;

78.20G.7.b

other money purchase benefits are linked to the other money purchase relevant
relievable amount;

78.20G.7.c

defined benefits are linked to the defined benefits relevant relievable
amount.

###### Amendments of Part 3 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004

79

Part 3 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 (transitional provision and saving: pre-
commencement benefit rights) is amended as follows.

80

Omit paragraph 23A (pre-commencement benefit rights: lump sums before normal
minimum pension age) and the italic heading before it.

81

81.1

In paragraph 24 (pre-commencement benefit rights: lump sum rights exceeding
£375,000: primary and enhanced protection), sub-paragraph (1) is amended as
follows.

81.2

In paragraph (a), after “Schedule 29” insert  “and paragraph 12 of this
Schedule” .

81.3

For paragraph (b) substitute—

81.3.b

paragraph 29A  (which makes provision modifying the value of the individual’s
lump sum allowance),

.

82

For paragraph 27 (pre-commencement benefit rights: enhanced protection:
permitted maximum) substitute—

82.27

If (and for so long as) paragraph 12 (enhanced protection) applies in relation
to the individual, that paragraph has effect as if, for  paragraph (i)  of
sub-paragraph (3B)  there were substituted—

82.27.i

paragraph 2  of Schedule 29 to FA 2004 (pension commencement lump sum:
definition of “permitted maximum”) has effect as if, for sub-paragraphs  (b)
and  (c) , there were substituted—

82.27.i.b

an amount equal to—

82.27.i.b.i

the maximum amount of a pension commencement lump sum that could have been
paid to the individual on 5 April 2023 under the arrangement pursuant to which
the individual becomes entitled to the relevant pension mentioned in paragraph
1(1)(aa), less

82.27.i.b.ii

the aggregate of the amounts of any pension commencement lump sums to which
the member has previously become entitled under that arrangement after that
date.

83

83.1

Paragraph 28 (pre-commencement benefit rights: no enhanced protection:
permitted maximum) is amended as follows.

83.2

In sub-paragraph (1) omit “paragraph 2 of”.

83.3

In sub-paragraph (2), after “paragraph 2” insert  “of Schedule 29” .

83.4

For sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

83.4.3

Otherwise, for paragraph 2 of Schedule 29 substitute—

83.4.3.2

83.4.3.2.1

In paragraph 1 “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a lump sum, means an
amount equal to—

  A   -   B         where—         A is the value of the individual’s relevant
uncrystallised lump sum rights on 5 April 2006 (calculated in accordance with
paragraphs 25 and 26), as adjusted under  sub-paragraph (2) ;           B is
the aggregate of the amounts of each pension commencement lump sum to which
the individual has previously become entitled, as adjusted under  sub-
paragraph (3)  (or, if the individual has not previously become entitled to a
pension commencement lump sum, is nil).

83.4.3.2.2

The adjustment referred to in the definition of A is the multiplication of the
value of the individual’s relevant uncrystallised lump sum rights on 5th April
2006 by 1.2 (being £1,800,000 divided by £1,500,000).

83.4.3.2.3

The adjustment of the amount of a pension commencement lump sum to which the
individual has previously become entitled referred to in the definition of B
is the multiplication of the amount by—

      £   1   ,   800   ,   000     C           where C is—         if the
individual became entitled to the lump sum before 6th April 2012, the standard
lifetime allowance at that time;           otherwise, £1,800,000.

84

For paragraph 29 (pre-commencement benefit rights: enhanced protection:
applicable amount) substitute—

84.29

84.29.1

If (and for so long as) paragraph 12 (enhanced protection) applies in relation
to the individual,  paragraphs 2A  to  2D  of Schedule 29 (meaning of “ the
applicable amount ” in relation to a relevant pension) apply with the
following modifications.

84.29.2

Paragraph 2A  of that Schedule (meaning of “the applicable amount” where the
relevant pension is income withdrawal) applies as if, for  sub-paragraphs (2)
to  (4) , there were substituted—

84.29.2.2

The applicable amount is—

    A   B     ×       C   +   D             where—         A is the value of
the individual’s relevant uncrystallised lump sum rights on 5 April 2006,
calculated in accordance with paragraphs 25 and 26 of Schedule 36;           B
is the value of the individual’s uncrystallised pension rights on 5 April
2006, calculated in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 9 of that Schedule;
C is the pension commencement lump sum paid;           D is—         the
aggregate of the sums, and the market value of the assets, designated as
available for the payment of drawdown pension on that occasion, less
so much (if any) of that amount as represents rights which are attributable to
a disqualifying pension credit.

84.29.3

Paragraph 2B  of that Schedule (meaning of “the applicable amount” where the
relevant pension is a lifetime annuity) applies as if, for  sub-paragraph (2)
there were substituted—

84.29.3.2

The applicable amount is (subject to sub-paragraph (4))—

    A   B     ×       C   +   D   -   E             where—         A is the
value of the individual’s relevant uncrystallised lump sum rights on 5 April
2006, calculated in accordance with paragraphs 25 and 26 of Schedule 36 to FA
2004;           B is the value of the individual’s uncrystallised pension
rights on 5 April 2006, calculated in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 9 of
that Schedule;           C is the pension commencement lump sum paid;
D is the annuity purchase price;           E is—         if the annuity is
purchased (in whole or in part) by the application of sums or assets
representing the whole or part of the member’s drawdown pension fund or flexi-
access drawdown fund, the aggregate of the amount of those sums and the market
value of those assets;           otherwise, so much (if any) of the aggregate
of the lump sum and the annuity purchase price as represents the rights which
are attributable to a disqualifying pension credit.

84.29.4

Paragraph 2C  of that Schedule (meaning of “the applicable amount” where the
relevant pension is a defined benefits arrangement or a collective money
purchase arrangement) applies as if—

84.29.4.a

for  sub-paragraph (2)  there were substituted—

84.29.4.a.2

The applicable amount is (subject to sub-paragraph (3))—

    A   B     ×       C   +   D             where—         A is the value of
the individual’s relevant uncrystallised lump sum rights on 5 April 2006,
calculated in accordance with paragraphs 25 and 26 of Schedule 36;           B
is the value of the individual’s uncrystallised pension rights on 5 April
2006, calculated in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 9 of that Schedule;
C is the pension commencement lump sum paid;           D is an amount equal to
the value of the pension rights crystallised by reason of the individual
becoming entitled to the pension (see  sub-paragraph (4) ).

;

84.29.4.b

after  sub-paragraph (3)  there were inserted—

84.29.4.b.4

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
make provision about how the value of the pension rights crystallised by
reason of the individual becoming entitled to the pension is to be determined
for the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) .

84.29.5

Paragraph 2D  of that Schedule (meaning of “the applicable amount” where the
relevant pension is a money purchase arrangement) applies as if, for  sub-
paragraph (2) , there were substituted—

84.29.5.2

The applicable amount is—

    A   B     ×       C   +   D             where—         A is the value of
the individual’s relevant uncrystallised lump sum rights on 5 April 2006,
calculated in accordance with paragraphs 25 and 26 of Schedule 36;           B
is the value of the individual’s uncrystallised pension rights on 5 April
2006, calculated in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 9 of that Schedule;
C is the pension commencement lump sum paid;           D is the scheme pension
purchase price.

85

After paragraph 29 (substituted by  paragraph 84 ) insert—

85.29A

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if the
amount specified in  section 637P  of ITEPA 2003 (individual’s lump sum
allowance) were an amount equal to the maximum amount of a pension
commencement lump sum that could have been paid to the member on 5th April
2023.

86

Omit paragraph 30 (pre-commencement benefit rights: exemption for pension
commencement lump sum exceeding permitted maximum from being scheme
chargeable).

87

For paragraph 34 (pre-commencement benefit rights: application of Schedule 29
to FA 2004 where paragraph 31 applies) substitute—

87.34

87.34.1

Paragraph 2  of Schedule 29 (pension commencement lump sums: definition of
“permitted maximum”) applies as if the permitted maximum were—

      A   ×   1   .   2       +   B         where—         A is the value of
the individual’s uncrystallised lump sum rights under the pension scheme on
5th April 2006, calculated in accordance with paragraph 32;           B is the
additional lump sum amount.

87.34.2

The additional lump sum amount is—

      C   +   (   D   ×   4   )   -       E   ×   0   .   7154         4
where—         C is the pension commencement lump sum paid;           D is the
applicable amount in relation to the relevant pension (see  paragraphs 2A  to
2D  of Schedule 29);           E is the value of the individual’s
uncrystallised rights under the pension scheme on 5th April 2006, calculated
in accordance with paragraph 33.

87.34.3

For the purposes of  section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s
lump sum allowance), the “non-taxable amount” of a pension commencement lump
sum paid to the individual is to be treated as an amount equal to the
applicable amount in relation to the relevant pension.

87.34.4

Any part of what would otherwise be D or E which represents rights
attributable to a disqualifying pension credit is to be disregarded.

88

Omit paragraph 35 (pre-commencement benefit rights: winding-up lump sums paid
by former approved superannuation funds) and the italic heading before it.

###### Amendment of Part 4 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004

89

In Part 4 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 (transitional provisions and savings:
other provisions), in paragraph 51 (individuals with pre-commencement
entitlement to corresponding relief), in sub-paragraph (4), for “events that
are benefit crystallisation events in relation to the individual” substitute
“an event that is the individual becoming entitled to a benefit under a
pension scheme” .

###### Amendments of Schedule 18 to FA 2011

90

90.1

In Schedule 18 to FA 2011 (lifetime allowance charge), in Part 2 (commencement
and transitional provision), paragraph 14 (fixed protection) is amended as
follows.

90.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance
enhancement factor” substitute  “apply on that date” .

90.3

In sub-paragraph (1A)(b), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance
enhancement factor” substitute  “apply on that date” .

90.4

For sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

90.4.3

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if—

90.4.3.a

the amount specified in  section 637P  of that Act (individual’s lump sum
allowance) were £450,000, and

90.4.3.b

the amount specified in  section 637R  of that Act (individual’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance) were £1,800,000.

###### Amendments of Schedule 22 to FA 2013

91

91.1

In Schedule 22 to FA 2013 (transitional provision relating to reduction in
standard lifetime allowance etc), in Part 1 (“fixed protection 2014”),
paragraph 1 is amended as follows.

91.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance
enhancement factor” substitute  “apply on that date” .

91.3

For sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

91.3.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if—

91.3.2.a

the amount specified in  section 637P  of that Act (individual’s lump sum
allowance) were £375,000, and

91.3.2.b

the amount specified in  section 637R  of that Act (individual’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance) were £1,500,000.

###### Amendments of Schedule 6 to FA 2014

92

92.1

In Schedule 6 to FA 2014 (transitional provision relating to new standard
lifetime allowance for the tax year 2014-15 etc), in Part 1 (“individual
protection 2014”), paragraph 1 (the protection) is amended as follows.

92.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance
enhancement factor” substitute  “apply on that date” .

92.3

For sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

92.3.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if—

92.3.2.a

the amount specified in  section 637P  of that Act (individual’s lump sum
allowance) were the lower of—

92.3.2.a.i

25% of the individual’s relevant amount;

92.3.2.a.ii

£375,000, and

92.3.2.b

the amount specified in  section 637R  of that Act (individual’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance) were the lower of—

92.3.2.b.i

the individual’s relevant amount;

92.3.2.b.ii

£1,500,000.

###### Amendments of Schedule 4 to FA 2016

93

93.1

Schedule 4 to FA 2016 (pensions: lifetime allowance: transitional provision)
is amended as follows is amended as follows.

93.2

In the heading, for “lifetime allowance” substitute  “lump sum allowance and
lump sum and death benefit allowance” .

93.3

In Part 1 (“fixed protection 2016”)—

93.3.a

in paragraph 1 (the protection), for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

93.3.a.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if—

93.3.a.2.a

the amount specified in  section 637P  of that Act (individual’s lump sum
allowance) were £312,500, and

93.3.a.2.b

the amount specified in  section 637R  of that Act (individual’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance) were £1,250,000.

;

93.3.b

in paragraph 2 (the initial conditions), in paragraph (b), for “make provision
for a lifetime allowance enhancement factor” substitute  “apply on 6 April
2016” .

93.4

In Part 2 (“individual protection 2016”), in paragraph 9 (the protection)—

93.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance
enhancement factor” substitute  “apply on 6 April 2016” ;

93.4.b

for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

93.4.b.2

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect in relation to the individual as if—

93.4.b.2.a

the amount specified in  section 637P  of that Act (individual’s lump sum
allowance) were the lower of—

93.4.b.2.a.i

25% of the individual’s relevant amount;

93.4.b.2.a.ii

£312,500, and

93.4.b.2.b

the amount specified in  section 637R  of that Act (individual’s lump sum and
death benefit allowance) were the lower of—

93.4.b.2.b.i

the individual’s relevant amount;

93.4.b.2.b.ii

£1,250,000.

93.5

In Part 3 (reference numbers etc), in paragraph 14 (issuing of reference
numbers for fixed or individual protection 2016), in sub-paragraph (3)(b), at
the end insert  “but before 6 April 2025” .

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes (Enhanced Lifetime Allowance) Regulations 2006

94

94.1

The Registered Pension Schemes (Enhanced Lifetime Allowance) Regulations 2006
( S.I. 2006/131 ) are amended as follows.

94.2

In the title, for “Lifetime Allowance” substitute  “Allowances” .

94.3

In regulation 1 (citation and commencement), for “Lifetime Allowance”
substitute  “Allowances” .

94.4

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

94.4.a

for the entry for “relevant lump sum death benefit” substitute—

      “ relevant lump sum death benefit ” means—         a defined benefits
lump sum death benefit, other than one paid after the end of the relevant two-
year period by a registered pension scheme in respect of a member of the
scheme who had not reached the age of 75 at the date of the member’s death, or
an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit, other than one paid after the
end of the relevant two-year period by a registered pension scheme in respect
of a member of the scheme who had not reached the age of 75 at the date of the
member’s death;

;

94.4.b

in the appropriate places insert—

      “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ” has the same meaning as in
section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance);

      “ the relevant two-year period ”, in relation to a member of a
registered pension scheme, means the period of two years beginning with the
earlier of the day on which the scheme administrator of the scheme first knew
of the member’s death and the day on which the scheme administrator could
first reasonably have been expected to have known of it;

.

94.5

In regulation 3 (reliance on  paragraph 7  of Schedule 36 (lifetime allowance
enhancement: “primary protection”)), in the heading, for “lifetime allowance
enhancement” substitute  “enhancement of allowances” .

94.6

In regulation 3A (reliance on paragraph 11A of Schedule 36 (lifetime allowance
enhancement: “primary protection”: taking account of death benefit))—

94.6.a

in the heading, for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute  “enhancement
of allowances” ;

94.6.b

in paragraph (6), for “section 217(2)” substitute  “section 579C of ITEPA
2003” .

94.7

In regulation 4 (reliance on paragraph 12 of Schedule 36 (lifetime allowances:
“enhanced protection”)), in the heading, for “lifetime allowances” substitute
“enhancement of allowances” .

94.8

In regulation 4A (reliance on paragraph 15A of Schedule 36 (lifetime
allowances: “enhanced protection”: taking account of death benefit))—

94.8.a

in the heading, for “lifetime allowances” substitute  “enhancement of
allowances” ;

94.8.b

in paragraph (6), for “section 217(2)” substitute  “section 579C of ITEPA
2003” .

94.9

In regulation 5 (reliance on  paragraph 18  of Schedule 36 (lifetime allowance
enhancement: pre-commencement pension credits)—

94.9.a

in the heading, for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute  “enhancement
of allowances” ;

94.9.b

in paragraph (1)—

94.9.b.i

for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit
crystallisation event” ;

94.9.b.ii

for “paragraph 18(1)” substitute  “ paragraph 18 (1) (a) ” .

94.10

In regulation 6 (reliance on section 220 (lifetime allowance enhancement:
registration of pension credits))—

94.10.a

in the heading—

94.10.a.i

for “section 220” substitute  “ paragraph 20A  of Schedule 36” ;

94.10.a.ii

for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute  “enhancement of allowances” ;

94.10.b

in paragraph (1), for “section 220(1)” substitute  “ paragraph 20A (1)  of
Schedule 36” ;

94.10.c

in paragraph (2), for “section 220” substitute  “ paragraph 20A  of Schedule
36” ;

94.10.d

in paragraph (3), for “section 220” substitute  “ paragraph 20A  of Schedule
36” ;

94.10.e

after paragraph (3) insert—

94.10.e.3A

The closing date is the earlier of—

94.10.e.3A.a

the relevant date found under paragraph (4), and

94.10.e.3A.b

5 April 2025.

;

94.10.f

in paragraph (4)—

94.10.f.i

in the words before the first rule, for “closing date” substitute  “relevant
date” ;

94.10.f.ii

in the words after the second rule, for “closing date” substitute  “relevant
date” ;

94.10.g

in paragraph (6), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “section 220”
substitute  “ paragraph 20A  of Schedule 36” ;

94.10.h

in paragraph (8), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “section 220”
substitute  “ paragraph 20A  of Schedule 36” .

94.11

In regulation 7 (reliance on section 221 (lifetime allowance enhancement:
relevant overseas individuals))—

94.11.a

in the heading—

94.11.a.i

for “section 221” substitute  “ paragraph 20B  of Schedule 36” ;

94.11.a.ii

for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute  “enhancement of allowances” ;

94.11.b

in paragraph (2), for “section 221” substitute  “ paragraph 20B  of Schedule
36” ;

94.11.c

in paragraph (3), for “section 221” substitute  “ paragraph 20B  of Schedule
36” ;

94.11.d

after paragraph (3) insert—

94.11.d.3A

The closing date is the earlier of—

94.11.d.3A.a

the relevant date found under paragraph (4), and

94.11.d.3A.b

5 April 2025.

;

94.11.e

in paragraph (4)—

94.11.e.i

in the words before the first rule, for “closing date” substitute  “relevant
date” ;

94.11.e.ii

in the words after the second rule, for “closing date” substitute  “relevant
date” ;

94.11.f

in paragraph (6), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “section 221”
substitute  “ paragraph 20B  of Schedule 36” ;

94.11.g

in paragraph (8), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “section 221”
substitute  “ paragraph 20B  of Schedule 36” .

94.12

In regulation 8 (reliance on section 224 (lifetime allowance enhancement:
transfer from recognised overseas pension scheme))—

94.12.a

in the heading—

94.12.a.i

for “section 224” substitute  “ paragraph 20E  of Schedule 36” ;

94.12.a.ii

for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute  “enhancement of allowances” ;

94.12.b

in paragraph (1), for “section 224(1)” substitute  “ paragraph 20E (1) ” ;

94.12.c

in paragraph (2), for “section 224” substitute  “ paragraph 20E  of Schedule
36” ;

94.12.d

in paragraph (3), for “section 224” substitute  “ paragraph 20E  of Schedule
36” ;

94.12.e

after paragraph (3) insert—

94.12.e.3A

The closing date is the earlier of—

94.12.e.3A.a

the relevant date found under paragraph (4), and

94.12.e.3A.b

5 April 2025.

;

94.12.f

in paragraph (4)—

94.12.f.i

in the words before the first rule, for “closing date” substitute  “relevant
date” ;

94.12.f.ii

in the words after the second rule, for “closing date” substitute  “relevant
date” ;

94.12.g

in paragraph (6), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “section 224”
substitute  “ paragraph 20E  of Schedule 36” ;

94.12.h

in paragraph (8), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “section 224”
substitute  “ paragraph 20E  of Schedule 36” .

94.13

In regulation 15 (certificates: general), in paragraph (3), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

###### Amendments of the Taxation of Pension Schemes (Transitional Provisions) Order 2006

95

95.1

The Taxation of Pension Schemes (Transitional Provisions) Order 2006 ( S.I.
2006/572 ) is amended as follows.

95.2

In article 25A (conditions to be met by stand-alone lump sums), in paragraph
(3), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit
crystallisation event” .

95.3

In article 25B (circumstances in which stand-alone lump sums are paid), in
paragraph (2), for “paragraph 2 of Schedule 29” substitute  “Chapter 15A of
Part 9 of ITEPA 2003” .

95.4

In article 25C (payment of stand-alone lump sums: tax consequences), for
paragraphs (2) and (3A) substitute—

95.4.1A

Articles 25CA to 25CC apply for the purposes of determining the tax treatment
of a stand-alone lump sum.

95.5

After article 25C insert—

############ Circumstance A: tax treatment of stand-alone lump sums

95.5.25CA

95.5.25CA.1

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect with the following modifications for
the purposes of determining the income tax treatment of a stand-alone lump sum
paid to a member of a pension scheme in circumstances where article 25B(2)
(circumstance A) applies.

95.5.25CA.2

That Chapter has effect as if, after  section 637G  (trivial commutation lump
sums and winding-up lump sums) there were inserted—

################## Stand-alone lump sums

95.5.25CA.2.637GA

95.5.25CA.2.637GA.1

Subject to  subsection (2) , no liability to income tax arises on a stand-
alone lump sum paid under a registered pension scheme.

95.5.25CA.2.637GA.2

If the amount of the stand-alone lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,
section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

95.5.25CA.2.637GA.3

In  subsection (2)  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a stand-alone
lump sum, means the lower of—

95.5.25CA.2.637GA.3.a

the maximum amount of a stand-alone lump sum that could have been paid to the
individual with no liability to income tax on 5 April 2023, and

95.5.25CA.2.637GA.3.b

so much of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is
available immediately before the individual becomes entitled to the lump sum
(see  section 637S ).

95.5.25CA.3

Section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance)
has effect as if, in the definition of “relevant lump sum” in  subsection (2)
(b)  of that section, there were included a reference to a stand-alone lump
sum.

95.5.25CA.4

Section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance) has effect as if, in the definition of “relevant lump sum”
in  subsection (2) (b)  of that section, there were included a reference to a
stand-alone lump sum.

############ Circumstance B: tax treatment of stand-alone lump sums

95.5.25CB

95.5.25CB.1

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect with the following modifications for
the purposes of determining the income tax treatment of a stand-alone lump sum
paid to a member of a pension scheme in circumstances where article 25B(3)
(circumstance B) applies.

95.5.25CB.2

That Chapter has effect as if, after  section 637G  (trivial commutation lump
sums and winding-up lump sums) there were inserted—

################## Stand-alone lump sums

95.5.25CB.2.637GA

95.5.25CB.2.637GA.1

Subject to  subsection (2) , no liability to income tax arises on a stand-
alone lump sum paid under a registered pension scheme.

95.5.25CB.2.637GA.2

If the amount of the stand-alone lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,
section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

95.5.25CB.2.637GA.3

In  subsection (2)  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a stand-alone
lump sum, means—

95.5.25CB.2.637GA.3.a

the amount of a stand-alone lump sum that could have been paid to the
individual with no liability to income tax on 5 April 2023 under the
arrangement pursuant to which the entitlement to the stand-alone lump sum
arises in respect of the individual, less

95.5.25CB.2.637GA.3.b

the aggregate of the amounts of any stand-alone lump sums and pension
commencement lump sums previously paid to the individual under that
arrangement after that date.

95.5.25CB.3

Section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance)
has effect as if, in the definition of “relevant lump sum” in  subsection (2)
(b)  of that section, there were included a reference to a stand-alone lump
sum.

95.5.25CB.4

Section 637S  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance) has effect as if, in the definition of “relevant lump sum”
in  subsection (2) (b)  of that section, there were included a reference to a
stand-alone lump sum.

############ Circumstance C: tax treatment of stand-alone lump sums

95.5.25CC

95.5.25CC.1

Chapter 15A  of Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income: lump sums under
registered pension schemes) has effect with the following modifications for
the purposes of determining the income tax treatment of a stand-alone lump sum
paid to a member of a pension scheme in circumstances where article 25B(4)
(circumstance C) applies.

95.5.25CC.2

That Chapter has effect as if, after  section 637G  (trivial commutation lump
sums and winding-up lump sums) there were inserted—

################## Stand-alone lump sums

95.5.25CC.2.637GA

95.5.25CC.2.637GA.1

Subject to  subsection (2) , no liability to income tax arises on a stand-
alone lump sum paid under a registered pension scheme.

95.5.25CC.2.637GA.2

If the amount of the stand-alone lump sum exceeds the permitted maximum,
section 579A (pensions) applies to the excess as it applies to any pension
under a registered pension scheme.

95.5.25CC.2.637GA.3

In  subsection (2)  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a stand-alone
lump sum, means the lower of—

95.5.25CC.2.637GA.3.a

the maximum amount of a stand-alone lump sum that could have been paid to the
individual with no liability to income tax on 5 April 2023, and

95.5.25CC.2.637GA.3.b

so much of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance as is
available immediately before the individual becomes entitled to the lump sum
(see  section 637S ).

95.5.25CC.3

Section 637Q  of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance),
has effect as if, in the definition of “relevant lump sum” in  subsection (2)
(b)  of that section, there were included a reference to a stand-alone lump
sum.

95.5.25CC.4

For the purposes of that section, the “non-taxable amount” of a stand-alone
lump sum is to be treated as being an amount equal to 25% of the lump sum.

95.5.25CC.5

Section 637S of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance), in the definition of “relevant lump sum” in  subsection
(2) (b)  of that section, there were included a reference to a stand-alone
lump sum.

95.6

In article 25D (stand-alone lump sums: further provisions)—

95.6.a

in paragraph (2)—

95.6.a.i

for “VULSR — APCLS” substitute  “A — B” ;

95.6.a.ii

omit the words from “, in the modified sub-paragraph (6)” to the end;

95.6.b

in paragraph (3), for “in the modified sub-paragraph (6) of paragraph 2 of
Schedule 29, the term “APCLS”” substitute  “the term “B”” .

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes (Lifetime Allowance Transitional Protection) Regulations 2011

96

96.1

The Registered Pension Schemes (Lifetime Allowance Transitional Protection)
Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/1752 ) are amended as follows.

96.2

In the title, for “Lifetime Allowance” substitute  “Enhanced Allowances” .

96.3

In regulation 1 (citation and commencement), for “Lifetime Allowance”
substitute  “Enhanced Allowances” .

96.4

In regulation 4 (the paragraph 14 notice), in paragraph (1)(c), for “make
provision for a lifetime allowance enhancement factor” substitute  “apply” .

96.5

In regulation 13 (preservation of documents), in paragraph (1), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event
within the meaning of  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003” .

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK Pension Schemes (Lifetime Allowance Transitional Protection) (Notification) Regulations 2013

97

97.1

The Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK Pension Schemes (Lifetime
Allowance Transitional Protection) (Notification) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/1741 ) are amended as follows.

97.2

In the title, for “Lifetime Allowance” substitute  “Enhanced Allowances” .

97.3

In regulation 1 (citation and commencement), for “Lifetime Allowance”
substitute  “Enhanced Allowances” .

97.4

In regulation 4 (the paragraph 1 notice), in paragraph (1)—

97.4.a

in sub-paragraph (c), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance enhancement
factor” substitute  “apply” ;

97.4.b

in sub-paragraph (e), for “(transitional provision relating to new standard
lifetime allowance for the tax year 2012-13)” substitute  “(fixed protection)”
.

97.5

In regulation 13 (preservation of documents), in paragraph (1), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event
within the meaning of  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003” .

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK Pension Schemes (Lifetime Allowance Transitional Protection) (Individual Protection 2014 Notification) Regulations 2014

98

98.1

The Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK Pension Schemes (Lifetime
Allowance Transitional Protection) (Individual Protection 2014 Notification)
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1842 ) are amended as follows.

98.2

In the title, for “Lifetime Allowance” substitute  “Enhanced Allowances” .

98.3

In regulation 1 (citation and commencement), for “Lifetime Allowance”
substitute  “Enhanced Allowances” .

98.4

In regulation 4 (the paragraph 1 notice), in paragraph (1), in sub-paragraph
(f), for “make provision for a lifetime allowance enhancement factor”
substitute  “apply” .

98.5

In regulation 13 (preservation of documents), in paragraph (2), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event
within the meaning of  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003” .

##### Provision of information

###### Amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004

99

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc) is amended as follows.

100

100.1

Section 256 (enhanced lifetime allowance regulations) is amended as follows.

100.2

In the heading omit “lifetime”.

100.3

In subsection (1)—

100.3.a

omit paragraphs (a) to (c);

100.3.b

in paragraph (d), for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute
“enhancement of allowances” ;

100.3.c

in paragraph (e)—

100.3.c.i

omit “lifetime allowance”;

100.3.c.ii

omit the “and” at the end;

100.3.d

in paragraph (f)—

100.3.d.i

for “paragraph 18(6)” substitute  “ paragraph 18 (1) (b) ” ;

100.3.d.ii

for “lifetime allowance enhancement” substitute  “enhancement of allowances” ;

100.3.e

after paragraph (f) insert—

100.3.e.g

paragraph 20A (1) (d)  of that Schedule (enhancement factor: pension credits
from previously crystallised rights),

100.3.e.h

paragraph 20B (1) (b)  of that Schedule (enhancement factor: non-residence),
and

100.3.e.i

paragraph 20E (1) (b)  of that Schedule (enhancement factor: transfers from
recognised overseas pension scheme).

100.4

In subsection (2) omit “lifetime”.

100.5

In subsection (3)—

100.5.a

in the words before paragraph (a) omit “lifetime”;

100.5.b

omit paragraph (a).

100.6

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a) omit “lifetime”.

101

101.1

Section 261 (enhanced lifetime allowance regulations: documents and
information) is amended as follows.

101.2

In the heading omit “lifetime”.

101.3

In subsection (1)(a) omit “lifetime”.

101.4

In subsection (2)—

101.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “lifetime allowance” substitute  “lump sum allowance or
lump sum and death benefit allowance” ;

101.4.b

in paragraph (b), after “pension commencement lump sums” insert  “or the
uncrystallised funds pension lump sums” .

101.5

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a)—

101.5.a

for “lifetime allowance” substitute  “lump sum and death benefit allowance” ;

101.5.b

for the words “whichever is the higher of” to the end of paragraph (b)
substitute  “the actual amount of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance at that time.”

101.6

In subsection (5)(a)—

101.6.a

for “a benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “a relevant benefit
crystallisation event within the meaning of  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003
(availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance)” ;

101.6.b

for “the benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “the relevant benefit
crystallisation event” .

101.7

In subsection (6), in paragraphs (a) and (b), after “pension commencement lump
sums” insert  “or the uncrystallised funds pension lump sums” .

102

102.1

Section 262 (enhanced lifetime allowance regulations: failures to comply) is
amended as follows.

102.2

In the heading omit “lifetime”.

102.3

In paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) omit “lifetime”.

103

103.1

Section 263 (lifetime allowance enhanced protection: benefit accrual) is
amended as follows.

103.2

In the heading omit “Lifetime allowance”.

103.3

In subsection (1)(a), for “lifetime allowance charge” substitute  “enhancement
of allowances” .

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes (Provision of Information) Regulations 2006

104

The Registered Pension Schemes (Provision of Information) Regulations 2006 (
S.I. 2006/567 ) are amended as follows.

105

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

105.a

 at the appropriate places insert—

      “ relevant benefit crystallisation event ”—         in relation to a
member’s lump sum allowance, has the same meaning as in  section 637Q  of
ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance) in relation to
the member;           in relation to a member’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance, has the same meaning as in  section 637S  of ITEPA 2003
(availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance) in
relation to the member;

      “ relevant reference number ”, in relation to a member, means a
reference number given by or on behalf of the Commissioners in respect of the
member under—         the Registered Pension Schemes (Enhanced Allowances)
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/131 ) (where the member relies on any provision
of Schedule 36 to FA 2004);           the Registered Pension Schemes (Enhanced
Allowances Transitional Protection) Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/1752 ) (where
the member relies on fixed protection under Schedule 18 to FA 2011);
the Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK Pension Schemes (Enhanced
Allowances Transitional Protection) (Notification) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/1741 ) (where the member relies on fixed protection 2014 under Schedule
22 to FA 2013);           the Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK
Pension Schemes (Enhanced Allowances Transitional Protection) (Individual
Protection 2014 Notification) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1842 ) (where the
member relies on individual protection 2014 under Schedule 6 to FA 2014);
paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to the Finance Act 2016 (where the member relies on
fixed or individual protection 2016 under that Schedule);

105.b

in the definition of “relevant lump sum death benefit”, for the words from
“means” to the end substitute  “has the meaning given by  section 637S (2) (c)
of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance)” .

106

106.1

In regulation 3 (provision of information by scheme administrator to the
Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs), in paragraph (1), the
Table is amended as follows.

106.2

Omit the entries for the following reportable events—

106.2.a

payments exceeding 50% of standard lifetime allowance;

106.2.b

benefit crystallisation events and non-standard lifetime allowances;

106.2.c

pension commencement lump sum;

106.2.d

pension commencement lump sum: primary and enhanced protection provisions of
Schedule 36;

106.2.e

stand-alone lump sum.

106.3

At the end insert—

      24 Payment of lump sum or lump sum death benefit in relation to relevant
benefit crystallisation event   In relation to a relevant benefit
crystallisation event, the scheme pays—         a lump sum to the member of
the scheme in relation to whom the relevant benefit crystallisation event
occurs, or           a lump sum death benefit to a person in respect of the
death of that member.           The information is—         the member’s name
and national insurance number,           the nature and amount of the lump sum
or lump sum death benefit giving rise to the relevant benefit crystallisation
event,           the date of the relevant benefit crystallisation event,
confirmation of whether or not the payment of the lump sum or lump sum death
benefit has resulted in the member’s lump sum allowance or lump sum and death
benefit allowance being exceeded,           so far as the payment of the lump
sum or lump sum death benefit has resulted in the member’s lump sum allowance
or lump sum and death benefit allowance being exceeded, confirmation that any
amount of tax due on the excess as a result of the charge to tax on pension
income under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 has been paid, and           each relevant
reference number (if any).

107

107.1

Regulation 7 (percentage of standard lifetime allowance expended on the
happening of a benefit crystallisation event) is amended as follows.

107.2

For the heading substitute  “Relevant benefit crystallisation events: amount
of member’s allowances expended” .

107.3

For paragraphs (1) and (2) substitute—

107.3.1

The amount of a member’s lump sum allowance or lump sum and death benefit
allowance expended on the happening of a relevant benefit crystallisation
event is the non-taxable amount in relation to the lump sum to which the
member becomes entitled, or the lump sum death benefit which a person is paid
in respect of the member.

107.4

In paragraph (3)(a) omit “, (2A), (2B)”.

107.5

For paragraph (4) substitute—

107.5.4

The total amount of a member’s lump sum allowance or lump sum and death
benefit allowance expended is the sum of the amounts calculated in accordance
with  paragraph (1)  in respect of each relevant benefit crystallisation event
that has occurred in relation to the member.

107.6

After paragraph (4) insert—

107.6.5

In this regulation “non-taxable amount”—

107.6.5.a

in relation to a member’s lump sum allowance, has the meaning given by
section 637Q (6)  of ITEPA 2003;

107.6.5.b

in relation to a member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance, has the
meaning given by  section 637S (6)  of ITEPA 2003.

108

108.1

Regulation 8 (death: provision of information by scheme administrator to
personal representatives) is amended as follows.

108.2

In paragraph (1) omit “, (2A), (2B)”.

108.3

In paragraph (2)—

108.3.a

for “percentage of standard lifetime allowance” substitute  “amount of the
member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance” ;

108.3.b

for “relevant lump sum death benefit” substitute  “defined benefits lump sum
death benefit or an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit” .

108.4

Omit paragraphs (2A) and (2B).

108.5

In paragraph (3)—

108.5.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “percentage of standard lifetime
allowance” substitute  “amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance” ;

108.5.b

in sub-paragraph (a), in the words before paragraph (i), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” ;

108.5.c

in sub-paragraph (b), in the words before paragraph (i), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” ;

108.5.d

in the words after sub-paragraph (b)—

108.5.d.i

for “percentage” substitute  “amount” ;

108.5.d.ii

for “relevant lump sum death benefit” substitute  “defined benefits lump sum
death benefit or any uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit” ;

108.5.d.iii

omit the words from “and any amount” to the end.

109

109.1

Regulation 9 (death: provision of information by insurance company to personal
representatives) is amended as follows.

109.2

In paragraph (2)—

109.2.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “percentage of standard lifetime
allowance” substitute  “amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance” ;

109.2.b

in sub-paragraph (a), in the words before paragraph (i), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” ;

109.2.c

in sub-paragraph (b), in the words before paragraph (i), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

110

110.1

Regulation 10 (death: provision of information by personal representatives to
the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs) is amended as
follows.

110.2

In paragraph (1), in sub-paragraph (b)—

110.2.a

omit “, or any benefit crystallisation event 5C or 5D,”;

110.2.b

for “a lifetime allowance charge” substitute  “the member’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance being exceeded” .

110.3

Omit paragraphs (1A) and (1B).

110.4

In paragraph (2)—

110.4.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

110.4.a.aa

the name of each other pension scheme (if any) of which the deceased member
was a member, and the name and address of the scheme administrator of each
such scheme;

;

110.4.b

in paragraph (b), after “name” insert  “, date of birth, date of death and
national insurance number” ;

110.4.c

after paragraph (b) insert—

110.4.c.ba

each relevant reference number (if any) in relation to the deceased member;

110.4.c.bb

the name, address, date of birth and national insurance number of the
individual to whom the relevant lump sum death benefit is paid;

;

110.4.d

in sub-paragraph (d), for “the chargeable amount in respect of which a
lifetime allowance charge is payable” substitute  “the amount by which the
member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance is exceeded” .

110.5

Omit paragraphs (2A) and (2B).

110.6

In paragraphs (3) and (5) omit “, (1A) or (1B)”.

111

111.1

Regulation 11 (information provided by member to scheme administrator:
protections) is amended as follows.

111.2

In the heading, for “enhanced lifetime allowance” substitute  “enhanced
allowances” .

111.3

In paragraph (1)—

111.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “the member” substitute  “a member” ;

111.3.b

in paragraph (a) omit “lifetime”;

111.3.c

for the words after paragraph (d) substitute  “the member must give to the
scheme administrator the reference number issued by or on behalf of the
Commissioners under any of the provisions mentioned in  paragraph (1A)  in
respect of that entitlement.”

111.4

After paragraph (1) insert—

111.4.1A

The provisions are—

111.4.1A.a

the Registered Pension Schemes (Enhancement of Allowances) Regulations 2006 (
S.I. 2006/131 );

111.4.1A.b

the Registered Pension Schemes (Enhanced Allowances Transitional Protection)
Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/1752 );

111.4.1A.c

the Registered Pension Schemes and Relieved Non-UK Pension Schemes (Enhanced
Allowances Transitional Protection) (Notification) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/1741 );

111.4.1A.d

Schedule 4 to the Finance Act 2016 (pensions: lump sum allowance and lump sum
and death benefit allowance: transitional provision).

111.5

In paragraph (2)(a), for “Lifetime Allowance” substitute  “Enhanced
Allowances” .

112

Omit regulation 11B (information provided by members to scheme administrators:
pension commencement lump sums).

113

In regulation 11BA (information provided by members to scheme administrators:
recognised transfers), in paragraph (2), after paragraph (ac) insert—

113.ad

a statement of the nature and transferred value of any transfers that have
previously been made in relation to the member—

113.ad.i

from any registered pension scheme or relieved relevant non-UK scheme of which
the member is, or was at any time after 6 April 2006, a member, and

113.ad.ii

to a qualifying recognised overseas pension scheme.

114

In regulation 11BB (information provided by members to scheme administrators:
overseas transfers), in paragraph (1)(b)—

114.a

in paragraph (i), for “the” substitute  “an” ;

114.b

in paragraph (ii)—

114.b.i

for “required” substitute  “excluded from the overseas transfer charge under
section 244AC ” ;

114.b.ii

omit the words from “to be” to the end.

115

Omit regulation 12 (information about scheme administrator’s liability for a
lifetime allowance charge).

116

116.1

Regulation 12A (provision of information about liability for overseas transfer
charge) is amended as follows.

116.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “etc” .

116.3

In paragraph (1)—

116.3.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “the overseas transfer charge”
substitute  “an overseas transfer charge” ;

116.3.b

for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

116.3.b.b

whether the overseas transfer charge arises under  section 244AC  or  244IA
in the case of the transfer,

.

116.4

In paragraph (2)—

116.4.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “the overseas transfer charge”
insert  “under  section 244AC ” ;

116.4.b

in sub-paragraph (b), at the end insert  “under  section 244AC ” ;

116.4.c

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

116.4.c.ba

the transferred value of the transfer,

.

116.5

In paragraph (3), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “overseas
transfer charge” substitute  “an overseas transfer charge under  section 244AC
” .

117

117.1

Regulation 14 (information provided to members by scheme administrators about
benefit crystallisation events) is amended as follows.

117.2

In the heading, for “benefit crystallisation events” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation events” .

117.3

In paragraph (1)(b), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation event” .

117.4

In paragraph (2)(c) omit “(2A) or (2B)”.

117.5

In paragraph (3)—

117.5.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “percentage of standard lifetime
allowance” substitute  “amount of the member’s lump sum allowance, and the
amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance,” ;

117.5.b

in sub-paragraph (a), for “benefit crystallisation events” substitute
“relevant benefit crystallisation events” ;

117.5.c

in sub-paragraph (b), in the words before paragraph (i), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

118

In regulation 14ZCA (further information provided by scheme administrators on
recognised transfers to overseas schemes), in paragraph (2)—

118.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “the overseas transfer charge” substitute  “an
overseas transfer charge” ;

118.b

for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

118.b.b

in a case where an overseas transfer charge arose in the case of the transfer,
stating—

118.b.b.i

the transferred value of the transfer,

118.b.b.ii

whether the charge arose under  section 244AC  or  244IA , and

118.b.b.iii

the amount of the charge, and

118.b.c

in a case where the transfer is excluded from the overseas transfer charge
under  section 244AC  by or under any of sections 244B to 244H, the section
under which it is so excluded.

119

119.1

Regulation 15 (information between scheme administrators) is amended as
follows.

119.2

In paragraph (2)—

119.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “total percentage of the standard
lifetime allowance” substitute  “total amount of the member’s lump sum
allowance, and the total amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance,” ;

119.2.b

in sub-paragraph (a), for “benefit crystallisation events” substitute
“relevant benefit crystallisation events” ;

119.2.c

in sub-paragraph (b), in the words before paragraph (i), for “benefit
crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant benefit crystallisation event” .

120

120.1

Regulation 16 (pensions and annuities in payment: information provided to and
by insurance companies) is amended as follows.

120.2

In paragraph (2), for “total percentage of standard lifetime allowance”
substitute  “total amount of the member’s lump sum allowance, and the total
amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance,” .

120.3

In paragraph (3), for “percentage of the standard lifetime allowance”
substitute  “total amount of the member’s lump sum allowance, and the total
amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance,” .

120.4

In paragraph (4)(a), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation event” .

121

121.1

Regulation 17 (payments to insurance companies from drawdown pension funds) is
amended as follows.

121.2

In paragraph (2), for “percentage of standard lifetime allowance” substitute
“amount of the member’s lump sum allowance, and the amount of the member’s
lump sum and death benefit allowance,” .

121.3

In paragraph (3)—

121.3.a

for “percentage of the standard lifetime allowance” substitute  “amount of the
member’s lump sum allowance, and the amount of the member’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance,” ;

121.3.b

for “percentage expended” substitute  “amount expended” .

121.4

In paragraph (5)—

121.4.a

in sub-paragraph (a)—

121.4.a.i

in the words before paragraph (i), for “percentages of standard lifetime
allowance” substitute  “amounts of the member’s lump sum allowance, and the
sum of the amounts of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance,” ;

121.4.a.ii

in paragraph (i), for “benefit crystallisation events” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation events” ;

121.4.a.iii

in paragraph (ii), for “benefit crystallisation event” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation event” ;

121.4.b

in sub-paragraph (b), in the words before paragraph (i), for “percentages of
standard lifetime allowance” substitute  “amounts of the member’s lump sum
allowance, and the sum of the amounts of the member’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance,” .

121.5

In paragraph (7)—

121.5.a

in sub-paragraph (a)—

121.5.a.i

in the words before paragraph (i), for “percentages of standard lifetime
allowance” substitute  “amounts of the member’s lump sum allowance, and the
sum of the amounts of the member’s lump sum and death benefit allowance,” ;

121.5.a.ii

in paragraph (i), for “benefit crystallisation events” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation events” ;

121.5.a.iii

in paragraph (ii), for “benefit crystallisation events” substitute  “relevant
benefit crystallisation events” ;

121.5.b

in sub-paragraph (b), in the words before paragraph (i), for “percentages of
standard lifetime allowance” substitute  “amounts of the member’s lump sum
allowance, and the sum of the amounts of the member’s lump sum and death
benefit allowance,” .

122

Omit regulations 19 (lump sums to which paragraph 1B of Schedule 29 applies)
and 20 (lump sums to which paragraph 1B of Schedule 29 fails to apply).

###### Amendments of the Registered Pension Schemes and Overseas Pension Schemes (Electronic Communication of Returns and Information) Regulations 2006

123

123.1

The Registered Pension Schemes and Overseas Pension Schemes (Electronic
Communication of Returns and Information) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/570 )
are amended as follows.

123.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (2), for the entry for “the ELA
regulations” substitute—

      “ the EA regulations ” means the Pension Schemes (Enhanced Allowances)
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/131 );

123.3

In Schedule 2 (information which may be supplied either to or by HM Revenue &
Customs by an approved method of electronic communications)—

123.3.a

in the entry relating to an application under section 267 or 268 of FA 2004
omit paragraph (a) (which relates to an application under section 267 of that
Act);

123.3.b

in the entry relating to a notification by an individual under regulation 3,
4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 of the Pension Schemes (Enhanced Lifetime Allowance)
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/131 ) (“ the 2006 regulations ”), for “the ELA
regulations” substitute  “the EA regulations” ;

123.3.c

in the entry relating to a requirement by an individual under regulation 12 of
the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute  “the EA
regulations” ;

123.3.d

in the entry relating to a requirement by an individual under regulation 14 of
the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute  “the EA
regulations” ;

123.3.e

in the entry relating to a requirement by an individual under regulation 16 of
the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute  “the EA
regulations” ;

123.3.f

in the entry relating to a notice given by an individual under regulation 17
of the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute  “the EA
regulations” ;

123.3.g

in the entry relating to a notice given by an individual under regulation 18
of the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute  “the EA
regulations” ;

123.3.h

in the entry relating to a notice by His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs under
regulation 24 of the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute
“the EA regulations” ;

123.3.i

in the entry relating to a certificate by His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
under the 2006 regulations, for “the ELA regulations” substitute  “the EA
regulations” ;

123.3.j

in the final entry, relating to a notice of appeal against the imposition of a
penalty under certain provisions—

123.3.j.i

in paragraph (e) omit “lifetime”;

123.3.j.ii

in paragraph (f) omit “lifetime”;

123.3.j.iii

in paragraph (g) omit “lifetime allowance”.

##### Commencement and transitional provision etc

###### Commencement

124

The amendments made by section  14  and this Schedule have effect for the tax
year 2024-25 and subsequent tax years.

###### Availability of individual’s lump sum allowance

125

125.1

This paragraph applies where—

125.1.a

one or more benefit crystallisation events within the meaning of Part 4 of FA
2004 occurred in relation to an individual before 6 April 2024,  ...

125.1.b

a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of  section 637Q
of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum allowance) occurs in
relation to the individual on or after that date , and

125.1.c

at the time the relevant benefit crystallisation occurs, the individual—

125.1.c.i

is not an individual to whom paragraph 12 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 applies
(enhanced protection), or

125.1.c.ii

is such an individual and is not within paragraph 24(1) of Schedule 36 to FA
2004 (persons with lump sum protection).

125.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

125.3

  The   amount of the individual’s lump sum allowance that is available on the
occurrence of the relevant benefit crystallisation event is—

125.3.a

the amount of that allowance that is available in accordance with  section
637Q  of ITEPA 2003 on the occurrence of that event, less

125.3.b

an amount equal to 25% of the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used
amount;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

125.3A

Where—

125.3A.a

the individual is an individual to whom paragraph 7 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004
applies (primary protection),

125.3A.b

the individual is not within paragraph 24(1) of Schedule 36 to FA 2004
(persons with lump sum protection), and

125.3A.c

25% of the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount is greater
than £375,000,

sub-paragraph (3) has effect as if the amount determined under paragraph (b)
of that sub-paragraph were £375,000.

125.4

But   sub-paragraph (3) does   not apply if, on the occurrence of the relevant
benefit crystallisation event, a transitional tax-free amount certificate is
in force in relation to the individual.

125.5

In such a case, the amount of the individual’s lump sum allowance that is
available on the occurrence of the relevant benefit crystallisation event is—

125.5.a

the amount of that allowance that is available in accordance with  section
637Q  of ITEPA 2003 on the occurrence of that event, less

125.5.b

the individual’s lump sum transitional tax-free amount;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

125.6

For provision about the meaning of expressions used in this paragraph, see
paragraph 129 .

###### Availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance

126

126.1

This paragraph applies where—

126.1.a

one or more benefit crystallisation events within the meaning of Part 4 of FA
2004 occurred in relation to an individual before 6 April 2024,  ...

126.1.b

a relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of  section 637S
of ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) occurs in relation to the individual on or after that date.  , and

126.1.c

at the time the relevant benefit crystallisation occurs, the individual is not
an individual to whom paragraph 12 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 applies (enhanced
protection).

126.2

Where the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount is equal to
or greater than the individual’s lifetime allowance, none of the individual’s
lump sum and death benefit allowance is available on the occurrence of the
relevant benefit crystallisation event.

126.3

Otherwise, the amount of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit allowance
that is available on the occurrence of the relevant benefit crystallisation
event is—

126.3.a

the amount of that allowance that is available in accordance with  section
637S  of ITEPA 2003 on the occurrence of that event, less

126.3.b

an amount equal to the appropriate percentage of the individual’s lifetime
allowance previously-used amount;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

126.3A

Where—

126.3A.a

the individual is an individual to whom paragraph 7 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004
applies (primary protection),

126.3A.b

the individual is not within paragraph 24(1) of Schedule 36 to FA 2004
(persons with lump sum protection),

126.3A.c

the appropriate percentage is 25%, and

126.3A.d

25% of the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount is greater
than £375,000,

sub-paragraph (3) has effect as if the amount determined under paragraph (b)
of that sub-paragraph were £375,000.

126.4

In   sub-paragraphs (3) and (3A)   “ the appropriate percentage ” means—

126.4.a

100% in a case in which—

126.4.a.i

the individual becomes entitled to a serious ill-health lump sum before 6
April 2024 and is under the age of 75 at the time of the payment, or

126.4.a.ii

the individual dies before 6 April 2024 under the age of 75 and before that
date a person is paid a lump sum death benefit in respect of the individual;

126.4.b

25% in any other case.

126.5

But sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (4)  do not apply if, on the occurrence of the
relevant benefit crystallisation event, a transitional tax-free amount
certificate is in force in relation to the individual.

126.6

In such a case, the amount of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance that is available on the occurrence of the relevant benefit
crystallisation event is—

126.6.a

the amount of that allowance that is available in accordance with  section
637S  of ITEPA 2003 on the occurrence of that event, less

126.6.b

the individual’s lump sum and death benefit transitional tax-free amount;

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

126.7

For provision about the meaning of expressions used in this paragraph, see
paragraph 129 .

###### Transitional tax-free amount certificates

127

127.1

A “transitional tax-free amount certificate” is a certificate relating to an
individual that—

127.1.a

is issued by a registered pension scheme on an application made in accordance
with this paragraph, and

127.1.b

certifies that the scheme administrator of the scheme is satisfied as to—

127.1.b.i

the amount of the individual’s lump sum transitional tax-free amount, and

127.1.b.ii

the amount of the individual’s lump sum and death benefit transitional tax-
free amount.

127.2

An application for a certificate in relation to an individual—

127.2.a

may be made by the individual or, if the individual is deceased, the
individual’s personal representatives;

127.2.b

may be made to any registered pension scheme of which the individual is a
member or, if the individual is deceased, of which the individual was a member
immediately before death;

127.2.c

must be accompanied by complete evidence as to the amount of the individual’s
lump sum and death benefit transitional tax-free amount;

127.2.d

may not be made after the occurrence, in relation to the individual, of a
relevant benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of  section 637S  of
ITEPA 2003 (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance).

127.3

The scheme administrator of a registered pension scheme to which an
application is made must, before the end of the period of three months
beginning with the date on which the scheme receives the application,
determine the application by—

127.3.a

issuing the applicant with a certificate, or

127.3.b

notifying the applicant that the application is refused.

127.4

A certificate must (in addition to certifying the matter mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (1) (b) ) contain the following information—

127.4.a

the individual’s name, address and national insurance number,

127.4.b

the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount expressed as a
percentage of the standard lifetime allowance,

127.4.c

the amount that the scheme administrator is satisfied is the individual’s lump
sum transitional tax-free amount, and

127.4.d

the amount that the scheme administrator is satisfied is the individual’s lump
sum and death benefit transitional tax-free amount.

127.5

A certificate may be in such form as the scheme administrator may determine
and may, in particular, be incorporated into any other document that is given
to the applicant by the scheme.

127.6

If at any time it appears to the scheme administrator of a registered pension
scheme that the amount specified on a certificate under  sub-paragraph (4) (c)
or  (d)  does not accurately reflect the individual’s lump sum transitional
tax-free amount or (as the case may be) lump sum and death benefit
transitional tax-free amount, they must cancel the certificate by giving
notice of the cancellation to the applicant or, if the applicant is deceased,
the applicant’s personal representatives.

127.7

A certificate—

127.7.a

comes into force when it is issued, and

127.7.b

ceases to be in force on the giving of a notice under sub-paragraph  (6) .

127.8

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations—

127.8.a

amend sub-paragraph  (3)  by substituting a different period for that for the
time being specified there, or

127.8.b

make further provision about transitional tax-free certificates.

127.9

For provision about the meaning of expressions used in this paragraph, see
paragraph 129 .

127.10

In the second column of the Table in section 98 of TMA 1970 (penalty for
failure to give certificates etc), at the appropriate place insert—

Paragraph  127  of  Schedule 9  to the Finance Act 2024

.

###### Availability of member’s overseas transfer allowance

127A

127A.1

This paragraph applies where—

127A.1.a

one or more benefit crystallisation events within the meaning of Part 4 of FA
2004 occurred in relation to an individual before 6 April 2024, and

127A.1.b

a transfer of the kind mentioned in section 244IA(1)(a) of FA 2004 is made in
relation to the individual on or after that date.

127A.2

Where the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount is equal to
or greater than the individual’s lifetime allowance, none of the individual’s
overseas transfer allowance is available on the making of the transfer.

127A.3

Otherwise, the amount of the individual’s overseas transfer allowance that is
available on the making of the transfer is—

127A.3.a

the amount of that allowance that is available in accordance with section
244IC of FA 2004 on the making of the transfer, less

127A.3.b

the individual’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount,

or, if that produces a negative result, nil.

###### Provision of information by scheme administrators to members

128

128.1

A reference in the Provision of Information Regulations to a relevant benefit
crystallisation event is, in relation to times before 6 April 2024, a
reference to a benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of Part 4 of
FA 2004.

128.2

Sub-paragraph  (3)  applies where—

128.2.a

one or more benefit crystallisation events within the meaning of Part 4 of FA
2004 occurred in relation to a member of a registered pension scheme before 6
April 2024, and

128.2.b

it is necessary to determine, for the purposes of any provision of the
Provision of Information Regulations as that provision has effect for the tax
year 2024-25 or a subsequent tax year, the amount of the member’s lump sum
allowance that has been expended by the events mentioned in paragraph  (a) .

128.3

For those purposes, the amount of the member’s lump sum allowance that has
been expended by the events mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  is—

128.3.a

if a transitional tax-free amount certificate is in force in relation to the
member, so much of the member’s lump sum transitional tax-free amount as is
referable to those events;

128.3.b

otherwise, an amount equal to 25% of so much of the member’s lifetime
allowance previously-used amount as is referable to those events.

128.4

Sub-paragraph  (5)  applies where—

128.4.a

one or more benefit crystallisation events within the meaning of Part 4 of FA
2004 occurred in relation to a member of a registered pension scheme before 6
April 2024, and

128.4.b

it is necessary to determine, for the purposes of any provision of the
Provision of Information Regulations as it has effect for the tax year 2024-25
or a later tax year, the amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance that has been expended by the events mentioned in paragraph  (a) .

128.5

For those purposes, the amount of the member’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance that has been expended by the events mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)
(a)  is—

128.5.a

if a transitional tax-free amount certificate is in force in relation to the
member, so much of the member’s lump sum and death benefit transitional tax-
free amount as is referable to those events;

128.5.b

otherwise, an amount equal to the appropriate percentage of so much of the
member’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount as is referable to those
events.

128.6

In  sub-paragraph (5) (b)  “ the appropriate percentage ” means—

128.6.a

100% in a case in which—

128.6.a.zi

the amount of the member’s lifetime allowance previously-used amount is equal
to or greater than the member’s lifetime allowance,

128.6.a.i

the member becomes entitled to a serious ill-health lump sum under the scheme
before 6 April 2024 and is under the age of 75 at the time of the payment, or

128.6.a.ii

the member dies before 6 April 2024 under the age of 75 and before that date a
person is paid a lump sum death benefit under the scheme in respect of the
individual;

128.6.b

25% in any other case.

128.7

In this paragraph “ the Provision of Information Regulations ” means the
Registered Pension Schemes (Provision of Information) Regulations ( S.I.
2006/567 ).

128.8

For further provision about the meaning of expressions used in this paragraph,
see  paragraph 129 .

###### Paragraphs 

129

129.1

“ Lump sum transitional tax-free amount ”, in relation to an individual, means
the total of—

129.1.a

each pension commencement lump sum (if any) to which the individual has,
before 6 April 2024, become entitled under a registered pension scheme,  ...

129.1.b

each uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (if any) to which the individual
has, before 6 April 2024, become entitled under a registered pension scheme,
so far as no charge to income tax under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 or Part 4 of FA
2004 arises in respect of it.

129.1.c

each stand-alone lump sum (if any) to which the individual has, before 6 April
2024, become entitled under a registered pension scheme, so far as no charge
to income tax under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 or Part 4 of FA 2004 arises in
respect of it, and

129.1.d

where a benefit crystallisation event within sub-paragraph (2)(a) of paragraph
20 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 (pre-commencement pensions) was treated as having
occurred before 6 April 2024 in relation to the individual, an amount equal to
25% of the amount treated as crystallised by that event under sub-paragraph
(2)(b) of that paragraph.

129.2

“ Lump sum and death benefit transitional tax-free amount ”, in relation to an
individual, means the total of—

129.2.a

each relevant lump sum (if any) to which the individual has, before 6 April
2024, become entitled under a registered pension scheme, so far as no charge
to income tax under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 or Part 4 of FA 2004 arises in
respect of it,  ...

129.2.b

each relevant lump sum death benefit (if any) paid before 6 April 2024 by a
registered pension scheme in respect of the individual so far as no charge to
income tax under Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 or Part 4 of FA 2004 arises in respect
of it , and

129.2.c

where a benefit crystallisation event within sub-paragraph (2)(a) of paragraph
20 of Schedule 36 to FA 2004 (pre-commencement pensions) was treated as having
occurred before 6 April 2024 in relation to the individual, an amount equal to
25% of the amount treated as crystallised by that event under sub-paragraph
(2)(b) of that paragraph.

129.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) —

129.3.a

a lump sum is “relevant” if the individual becoming entitled to it constituted
a benefit crystallisation event within the meaning of Part 4 of FA 2004;

129.3.b

a lump sum death benefit is “relevant” if its payment constituted a benefit
crystallisation event within the meaning of Part 4 of FA 2004.

129.4

“ Complete evidence ”, in relation to an individual’s lump sum and death
benefit transitional tax-free amount, means evidence of—

129.4.a

each lump sum (if any) to which the individual has become entitled, and

129.4.b

each lump sum death benefit (if any) that has been paid in respect of the
individual,

that is comprised, or any part of which is comprised, in the individual’s lump
sum and death benefit transitional tax-free amount.

129.5

In paragraphs  125  to  128  and this paragraph—

“ complete evidence ” has the meaning given by  sub-paragraph (4) ; “ lifetime
allowance ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004; “ lifetime allowance
previously-used amount ” means the amount that would have been the previously-
used amount for the purposes of section 219 of FA 2004 (availability of
individual’s lifetime allowance) if a benefit crystallisation event (within
the meaning of that section) had occurred immediately before 6 April 2024; “
lump sum and death benefit transitional tax-free amount ” has the meaning
given by  sub-paragraphs (2)  and  (3) ; “ lump sum death benefit ” has the
same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004; “ lump sum transitional tax-free amount
” has the meaning given by  sub-paragraph (1) ; “ pension commencement lump
sum ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004; “ the Provision of
Information Regulations ” means the Registered Pension Schemes (Provision of
Information) Regulations ( S.I. 2006/567 ); “ scheme administrator ” has the
same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004; “ serious ill-health lump sum ” has the
same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004;   “ stand-alone lump sum ” has the
meaning given by article 25 of the Taxation of Pension Schemes (Transitional
Provisions) Order 2006 ( S.I. 2006/572 );   “ standard lifetime allowance ”,
in relation to an individual, has the same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004 as
that Part has effect in relation to the individual; “ transitional tax-free
amount certificate ” means a certificate under  paragraph 127 ; “
uncrystallised funds pension lump  sum ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of
FA 2004.

129.6

A reference in any of paragraphs  125  to  128  or this paragraph to a
provision of FA 2004 is to that provision as it had effect immediately before
6 April 2024.

###### Statements for certain members who would not otherwise receive one in the tax year 2024-25

130

130.1

The scheme administrator of a registered pension scheme must provide a
statement to each relevant person before the end of the tax year 2024-25.

130.2

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ relevant person ” means—

130.2.a

any member of the scheme—

130.2.a.i

in relation to whom one or more benefit crystallisation events occurred before
6 April 2024, and

130.2.a.ii

who on that date does not have an actual (as opposed to prospective)
entitlement to be paid a pension, or

130.2.b

the personal representatives of a member within  paragraph (a)  who has died.

130.3

The statement must contain the information in regulation 14(3) of the
Provision of Information Regulations (percentage of standard lifetime
allowance expended by benefit crystallisation events) in respect of benefit
crystallisation events occurring before 6 April 2024.

130.4

In this paragraph—

“ benefit crystallisation event ” means a benefit crystallisation event within
the meaning of Part 4 of FA 2004, as that Part had effect immediately before 6
April 2024; “ the Provision of Information Regulations ” means the Registered
Pension Schemes (Provision of Information) Regulations ( S.I. 2006/567 )  , as
those regulations had effect immediately before 6 April 2024 ; “ scheme
administrator ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004.

###### Lump sums paid on or after 6 April 2024 where entitlement arose before that date

130A

130A.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a lump sum to which a member of a
registered pension scheme becomes entitled before 6 April 2024 and which is
paid on or after that date.

130A.2

The amendments made by Schedule 9 to FA 2024 and these regulations are to be
disregarded for the purposes of determining—

130A.2.a

the extent (if any) to which the lump sum is a lump sum within subsection (1)
of section 166 of FA 2004 (lump sum rule), and

130A.2.b

the tax treatment of the lump sum.

###### Lump sum death benefits paid on or after 6 April 2024 that crystallised before that date

131

In  section 637S  (availability of individual’s lump sum and death benefit
allowance) “ relevant lump sum death benefit ” does not include a lump sum
death benefit if and to the extent that it is paid in respect of rights that,
before 6 April 2024, crystallised under section 216 of FA 2004.

###### Modifications of scheme rules

132

132.1

A rule of a registered pension scheme relating to a member’s entitlement to  ,
or to the payment of,   a lifetime allowance excess lump sum has effect, in
relation to entitlements arising on or after 6 April 2024, and so far as
possible, as a rule relating to the member’s entitlement to  , or to the
payment of,   a pension commencement excess lump sum.

132.2

The amendments of Part 4 of FA 2004 made by or under this Schedule do not
affect the interpretation of any relevant rule of a registered pension scheme.

132.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) , a rule of a registered pension scheme
is “relevant” if the rule imposes a limit on the amount of a benefit payable
under the scheme to, or in respect of, a member by reference to the member’s
lifetime allowance, the standard lifetime allowance or the lifetime allowance
charge.

132.4

In this paragraph “ lifetime allowance ”, “ standard lifetime allowance ” and
“ lifetime allowance charge ” have the same meaning as in Part 4 of FA 2004 as
that Part had effect immediately before 6 April 2024.

132.5

This paragraph ceases to have effect at the end of the tax year 2028-29.

###### Continuity of the law

132A

132A.1

This paragraph applies where any provision of or made under this Schedule re-
enacts (with or without modification) a provision of the pensions tax code
that is repealed by or under this Schedule.

132A.2

The repeal and re-enactment does not affect the continuity of the law.

132A.3

Anything done (including any subordinate legislation made) or having effect as
if done, under or for the purposes of the repealed provision that could have
been done under or for the purposes of the corresponding provision of the
pensions tax code, if in force or effective immediately before the
commencement of that corresponding provision, has effect thereafter as if done
under or for the purposes of that corresponding provision.

132A.4

Any reference (express or implied) in any enactment, instrument or document to
a provision of the pensions tax code shall be construed (so far as the context
permits) as including, as respects times, circumstances or purposes in
relation to which the corresponding repealed provision had effect, a reference
to that corresponding provision.

132A.5

Any reference (express or implied) in any enactment, instrument or document to
a repealed provision shall be construed (so far as the context permits) as
respects times, circumstances or purposes in relation to which the
corresponding provision of the pensions tax code has effect, as being or
(according to the context) including a reference to that corresponding
provision.

132A.6

This paragraph has effect subject to any specific transitional provision or
saving contained in or made under this Schedule.

132A.7

In this paragraph a reference to an enactment being repealed includes its
being substituted or revoked.

132A.8

In this paragraph “ pensions tax code ” means—

132A.8.a

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes) and subordinate legislation made under it,
and

132A.8.b

Part 9 of ITEPA 2003 (pension income) and subordinate legislation made under
it.

###### Power to make further transitional provision

133

133.1

The Treasury may make transitional, transitory or saving provision (in
addition to that contained in paragraphs  126  to  132 ) in connection with
the coming into force of any amendment made by section  14  or this Schedule.

133.2

Regulations under this paragraph may—

133.2.a

insert provision into this Part of this Schedule;

133.2.b

amend any provision of paragraphs  126  to  132 ;

133.2.c

make different provision for different purposes.

###### Power to make further provision in connection with the abolition of lifetime allowance charge

134

134.1

The Treasury may by regulations make further provision (in addition to that
contained in Parts  1  to  5  of this Schedule) in consequence of, or
otherwise in connection with, the provision made by sections 18, 19 and 23 of
F(No.2)A 2023.

134.2

Regulations under this paragraph may—

134.2.a

amend any provision of the Income Tax Acts (including any provision of, or
amendment made by, this Schedule);

134.2.b

if made after 5 April 2024, be made so as to have effect for the tax year in
which they are made;

134.2.c

make different provision for different purposes;

134.2.d

include transitional, transitory or saving provision.

134.3

Regulations under this paragraph that increase any person’s liability to tax
may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument containing them has
been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the House of Commons.

134.4

No regulations under this paragraph may be made after 5 April 2026.

134.5

In  sub-paragraph (2)  “ amend ” includes repeal or revoke.

  Calculation of trade profits etc

Section 16

##### Main provisions

###### Introduction of cash basis default

1

Chapter 3 of Part 2 of ITTOIA 2005 (trade profits: basic rules) is amended as
follows.

2

After section 24 insert—

########## Basis of accounting

########### Cash basis to apply by default

2.24A

2.24A.1

The profits of a trade for a tax year must be calculated on the cash basis,
unless—

2.24A.1.a

the trade is an excluded trade in relation to the tax year (see  section 25B
), or

2.24A.1.b

an election under  section 25C (1)  has effect in relation to the trade for
the tax year.

2.24A.2

In this Part—

2.24A.2.a

references to calculating the profits of a trade on the cash basis are
references to doing so in accordance with this section, and

2.24A.2.b

references to a trade in relation to which the cash basis applies are to a
trade the profits of which are required by virtue of  subsection (1)  to be
calculated on the cash basis.

2.24A.3

Chapter 3A contains provision about the calculation of profits on the cash
basis and the application of the rest of this Part in relation to the cash
basis.

2.24A.4

Where the cash basis applies in relation to a trade, sections 27, 28 and 30 do
not apply in relation to the calculation of the profits of the trade.

2.24A.5

This section does not affect provisions of the Income Tax Acts relating to the
calculation of the profits of Lloyd's underwriters.

3

In section 25 (generally accepted accounting practice)—

3.a

in subsection (1), after “trade” insert  “to which the cash basis does not
apply” ;

3.b

omit subsection (3).

4

Omit section 25A (cash basis for small businesses).

5

Before section 26 insert—

########## Election for profits to be calculated in accordance with GAAP

5.25C

5.25C.1

A person who is or has been carrying on a trade, other than an excluded trade,
may elect for the profits of the trade to be calculated in accordance with
generally accepted accounting practice (instead of on the cash basis).

5.25C.2

An election made in relation to a trade under  subsection (1)  has effect—

5.25C.2.a

for the tax year for which it is made, and

5.25C.2.b

for every subsequent tax year (subject to  subsection (3) ).

5.25C.3

An election made in relation to a trade under  subsection (1)  ceases to have
effect if—

5.25C.3.a

the trade is an excluded trade in relation to a tax year, or

5.25C.3.b

the person who is or has been carrying on the trade, other than an excluded
trade, elects to calculate its profits for a subsequent tax year on the cash
basis.

5.25C.4

Subsection (3)  does not prevent an election being made under  subsection (1)
for any subsequent tax year.

5.25C.5

For the meaning of “excluded trade”, see  section 25B .

###### Removal of turnover restrictions etc

6

In Chapter 3A of Part 2 of ITTOIA 2005 (trade profits: cash basis) omit—

6.a

section 31A (conditions to be met for profits to be calculated on cash basis)
and the italic heading before it,

6.b

section 31B (relevant maximum), and

6.c

section 31D (effect of election under section 25A) and the italic heading
before it.

###### Removal of interest payments restriction

7

In Part 2 of ITTOIA 2005—

7.a

in Chapter 4 (trade profits: rules restricting deductions) omit section 51A
(cash basis: interest payments on loans), and

7.b

in Chapter 5 (trade profits: rules allowing deductions) omit section 57B (cash
basis: interest payments on loans) and the italic heading before it.

###### Removal of loss restrictions

8

In ITA 2007—

8.a

in Chapter 2 of Part 4 (loss relief: trade losses) omit section 74E (no relief
where cash basis used to calculate losses) and the italic heading before it,
and

8.b

in Chapter 1 of Part 8 (relief for interest payments), in section 384B(1)
(restriction on relief where cash basis applies)—

8.b.i

for the words from “has made” to “profits of” substitute  “carried on” ;

8.b.ii

for “carried on by the partnership” substitute  “the profits of which” .

##### Minor and consequential amendments

###### Amendments of ITTOIA 2005

####### Other amendments of Chapter 3 of Part 2

9

Chapter 3 of Part 2 of ITTOIA 2005 (trade profits: basic rules) is amended as
follows.

10

Before section 24 insert the following italic heading—

  Professions and vocations

.

11

Before section 25C (inserted by  paragraph 5  of this Schedule) insert —

########### Excluded trades

11.25B

11.25B.1

A trade is an excluded trade in relation to a tax year if the trade meets any
of conditions A to G.

11.25B.2

Condition A is that—

11.25B.2.a

the person who is or has been carrying on the trade is a firm, and

11.25B.2.b

one or more of the persons who have been partners in the firm at any time
during the tax year was not an individual at that time.

11.25B.3

Condition B is that the person who is or has been carrying on the trade was a
limited liability partnership at any time during the tax year.

11.25B.4

Condition C is that an election under Chapter 8 (trade profits: herd basis
rules) has effect in relation to the trade for the tax year.

11.25B.5

Condition D is that a claim under Chapter 16 (claim for averaging of
fluctuating profits) has been made in relation to the trade for the tax year.

11.25B.6

Condition E is that, at any time within the period of 7 years ending
immediately before the tax year, the person who is or has been carrying on the
trade obtained an allowance under Part 3A of CAA 2001 (business premises
renovation allowances) in relation to the trade.

11.25B.7

Condition F is that the trade is or was at any time during the tax year a
mineral extraction trade within the meaning of Part 5 of CAA 2001 (see section
394(2) of that Act).

11.25B.8

Condition G is that—

11.25B.8.a

at any time before the beginning of the tax year the person who is or has been
carrying on the trade obtained an allowance under Part 6 of CAA 2001 (research
and development allowances) in respect of qualifying expenditure incurred by
the person in relation to the trade, and

11.25B.8.b

the person owns an asset representing the expenditure.

In this subsection “ qualifying expenditure ” has the same meaning as in Part
6 of CAA 2001.

11.25B.9

The Treasury may by regulations amend this section.

11.25B.10

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (9)  that
restricts the circumstances in which an election may be made under  section
25C  may not be made unless a draft of the instrument containing the
regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the House
of Commons.

12

Before section 27 insert the following italic heading—

  Rules relating to calculation of profits

.

13

Before section 30 insert the following italic heading—

  Animals kept for trade purposes

.

14

Before section 31 insert the following italic heading—

  Rules relating to deductions

.

####### Amendments of other provisions

15

ITTOIA 2005 is amended as follows.

16

Omit section 31C (excluded persons) (but see  paragraph 11 , which inserts
substantially similar provision).

17

In section 32A (application of Chapter 4 of Part 2 to the cash basis), in
subsection (2)—

17.a

omit “the following—”, and

17.b

omit the words from “section 51A” to the end.

18

In section 56A (application of Chapter 5 of Part 2 to the cash basis), omit
subsection (2).

19

In section 58 (incidental costs of obtaining finance), in subsection (5) omit
paragraph (a) (including the “and” at the end).

20

In section 94E (excluded vehicles), in subsection (3)(b), for “25A” substitute
“ 24A ” .

21

21.1

Section 96A (capital receipts under, or after leaving, cash basis) is amended
as follows.

21.2

In subsection (3), for “an election under section 25A (cash basis for trades)
has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” .

21.3

In subsection (3A), in paragraph (b), for the words “for which no election
under section 25A had effect” substitute  “in which the cash basis did not
apply” .

21.4

In subsection (3C)—

21.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “no election under section 25A has effect” substitute
“the cash basis does not apply” ;

21.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an election had had effect” substitute  “the cash
basis did apply” .

21.5

In subsection (3D)—

21.5.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A had effect” substitute
“the cash basis applied” ;

21.5.b

in paragraph (c), for “an election under section 25A had not had effect”
substitute  “the cash basis had not applied” .

21.6

In subsection (3E), in paragraph (a), for “for which no election under section
25A had effect” substitute  “in which the cash basis did not apply” .

22

Section 96B (section 96A: supplementary provision), in subsection (3)—

22.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A has effect” substitute
“the cash basis applies” ;

22.b

in paragraph (b), for “no such election had effect” substitute  “the cash
basis did not apply” .

23

In section 97A (cash basis: value of trading stock on cessation of trade), in
subsection (1)(b), for “an election under section 25A (cash basis for small
business) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” .

24

In section 97B (cash basis: value of work in progress on cessation of
profession or vocation), in subsection (1)(b), for “an election under section
25A (cash basis for small business) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis
applies” .

25

In section 227A (application of Chapter 17 of Part 2 where cash basis used),
in subsection (1)—

25.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

25.a.a

the cash basis does apply in relation to a trade for a tax year but does not
apply in relation to the trade for the following tax year.

25.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

25.b.b

the cash basis does not apply in relation to a trade for a tax year but does
apply in relation to the trade for the following tax year.

26

In section 227B (cash basis treatment: full relief under Chapter 1 of Part 6A
(trading allowance)), in subsection (2), for “an election under section 25A is
to be treated as having effect” substitute  “the cash basis is to be treated
as not applying” .

27

In section 239A (spreading on leaving cash basis), in subsection (1)—

27.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A (cash basis for small
businesses) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” ;

27.b

in paragraph (b), for “no such election has effect” substitute  “the cash
basis does not apply” .

28

In section 240B (meaning of “ entering the cash basis ”)—

28.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A has effect” substitute
“the cash basis applies” ;

28.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an election does not have effect” substitute  “the
cash basis does not apply” .

29

In section 246 (basic meaning of “post-cessation receipt”), in subsection
(2A), for “an election under section 25A (cash basis for small businesses) has
effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” .

30

In section 254 (allowable deductions), for subsection (2A) substitute—

30.2A

If, immediately before the person permanently ceases to carry on the trade,
the cash basis applies in relation to the trade, assume for the purposes of
subsection (2) that the cash basis applies in relation to the trade.

31

In section 783AE (full relief: introduction), in subsection (3)—

31.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

31.a.a

the cash basis applies for the tax year in relation to one or more of the
trades mentioned in subsection (2)(a);

;

31.b

in paragraph (b)—

31.b.i

for “25A” substitute  “ 25C (1) ” ;

31.b.ii

at the end insert  “in relation to one or more of the trades mentioned in
paragraph (a)” ;

31.c

omit paragraphs (c) and (d).

32

In section 786 (meaning of “ rent-a-room receipts ”), in subsection (5), for
paragraph (b) substitute—

32.b

the profits of the trade are required under  section 24A  to be calculated on
the cash basis.

33

In section 805 (meaning of “ qualifying care receipts ”), in subsection (4),
for paragraph (b) substitute—

33.b

the profits of the trade are required under  section 24A  to be calculated on
the cash basis.

34

In section 820 (periods of account not ending on 5 April), in subsection (2),
for “an election under section 25A (cash basis for small businesses) has
effect in relation to the trade” substitute  “the profits of the trade are
required under  section 24A  to be calculated on the cash basis” .

35

In Part 2 of Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions), in the entry for “the
cash basis (in Part 2)”, for “section 25A” substitute  “ section 24A ” .

###### Amendments of other Acts

####### TMA 1970

36

In section 42(7)(e) of TMA 1970 (procedure for making claims etc), for “25A”
substitute  “ 25C ” .

####### TCGA 1992

37

In section 41(9)(a) of TCGA 1992 (restriction of losses by reference to
capital allowances and renewals allowances), for the words from “calculating”,
in the second place it occurs, to “effect” substitute  “be construed in
accordance with Part 2 of ITTOIA 2005 (see  section 24A  of that Act)” .

####### CAA 2001

38

CAA 2001 is amended as follows.

39

39.1

Section 1A (capital allowances and charges: cash basis) is amended as follows.

39.2

In subsection (9)—

39.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 (cash
basis for trades) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” ;

39.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “no such election has effect” substitute  “the cash
basis did not apply” .

39.3

In subsection (11)—

39.3.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

39.3.a.za

references to a trade, profession or vocation in relation to which the cash
basis applies are to a trade, profession or vocation the profits of which are
required by virtue of  section 24A (1)  of ITTOIA 2005 to be calculated on the
cash basis,

;

39.3.b

in paragraph (a), for the words from “calculating”, in the second place it
occurs, to “effect” substitute  “doing so in accordance with  section 24A  of
ITTOIA 2005” .

40

In section 4(2ZA)(a) (capital expenditure)—

40.a

for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 has effect” substitute  “the
cash basis applies” ;

40.b

at the end insert  “(see  section 24A  of ITTOIA 2005)” .

41

In section 66A(6) (persons leaving cash basis)—

41.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A had effect” substitute
“the cash basis applied” ;

41.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an election does not have effect” substitute  “the
cash basis does not apply” .

42

42.1

Section 431D (persons leaving cash basis) is amended as follows.

42.2

In subsection (1)—

42.2.a

in paragraph (b), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 (cash
basis for trades) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” ;

42.2.b

in paragraph (d), for “an election under section 25A of that Act had not had
effect” substitute  “the cash basis had not applied” .

42.3

In subsection (4)—

42.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 had
effect” substitute  “the cash basis applied” ;

42.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an election does not have effect” substitute  “the
cash basis does not apply” .

42.4

After subsection (4) insert—

42.4.4A

Subsection (11)(za) of section 1A (capital allowances and charges: cash basis)
applies for the purposes of this section as it applies for the purposes of
that section.

43

43.1

Section 462A (persons leaving cash basis) is amended as follows.

43.2

In subsection (1)—

43.2.a

in paragraph (b), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 (cash
basis for trades) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” ;

43.2.b

in paragraph (d), for “an election under section 25A of that Act had not had
effect” substitute  “the cash basis had not applied” .

43.3

In subsection (5)—

43.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 had
effect” substitute  “the cash basis applied” ;

43.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an election does not have effect” substitute  “the
cash basis does not apply” .

43.4

After subsection (4) insert—

43.4.4A

Subsection (11)(za) of section 1A (capital allowances and charges: cash basis)
applies for the purposes of this section as it applies for the purposes of
that section.

44

44.1

Section 477A (persons leaving cash basis) is amended as follows.

44.2

In subsection (1)—

44.2.a

in paragraph (b), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 (cash
basis for trades) has effect” substitute  “the cash basis applies” ;

44.2.b

in paragraph (d), for “an election under section 25A of that Act had not had
effect” substitute  “the cash basis had not applied” .

44.3

In subsection (5)—

44.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 had
effect” substitute  “the cash basis applied” ;

44.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an election does not have effect” substitute  “the
cash basis does not apply” .

44.4

After subsection (5) insert—

44.4.5A

Subsection (11)(za) of section 1A (capital allowances and charges: cash basis)
applies for the purposes of this section as it applies for the purposes of
that section.

####### ITA 2007

45

45.1

ITA 2007 is amended as follows—

45.2

In section 64(8) (deduction of losses from general income), omit paragraph
(bb).

45.3

In section 72(5) (relief for individuals for losses in first 4 years of
trade), omit paragraph (bb).

####### Consequential repeals

46

In consequence of the repeals made by this Schedule, omit the following
provisions (which insert or amend provisions repealed by this Schedule)—

46.a

in Part 1 of Schedule 4 to FA 2013, paragraphs 3, 4, 10, 14, 15 and 39(3),

46.b

in Part 2 of that Schedule, paragraphs 44 and 54, and

46.c

paragraph 6 of Chapter 3A of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to FA 2022.

##### Commencement and transitional provision

###### Commencement

47

The amendments made by this Schedule have effect for the tax year 2024-25 and
subsequent tax years.

###### Transitional provision

48

48.1

This paragraph has effect for the purposes of construing references in the
Income Tax Acts to the cash basis in relation to the calculation of the
profits of a trade (but not a property business) for a tax year before
2024-25.

48.2

Any reference to calculating the profits of a trade on the cash basis is to be
read as a reference to doing so in accordance with section 25A of ITTOIA 2005.

48.3

Any reference to the cash basis applying (or not applying) in relation to a
trade for the tax year is to be read as a reference to an election under
section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 having effect (or not having effect) in relation to
the trade for the tax year.

49

49.1

This paragraph has effect for the purposes of construing references in the
Income Tax Acts to a change in the basis of calculation of the profits of a
trade (but not a property business) for the tax year 2024-25.

49.2

A person carrying on a trade “ enters the cash basis ” in relation to the
trade in the tax year 2024-25 if—

49.2.a

the cash basis applies in relation to the trade for the tax year 2024-25, and

49.2.b

no election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 had effect in relation to the
trade for the tax year 2023-24,

and related expressions are to be construed accordingly.

49.3

A person carrying on a trade “ leaves the cash basis ” in relation to the
trade in the tax year 2024-25 if—

49.3.a

an election under section 25A of ITTOIA 2005 had effect in relation to the
trade for the tax year 2023-24, and

49.3.b

the cash basis does not apply in relation to the trade for the tax year
2024-25,

and related expressions are to be construed accordingly.

49.4

For the purposes of this paragraph, the cash basis applies to a trade in
relation to a tax year if the profits of the trade for the tax year are
required by virtue of  section 24A (1)  of ITTOIA 2005 to be calculated in
accordance with that section.

50

Paragraphs  48  and  49  apply to professions and vocations as they apply to
trades.

  Capital-raising arrangements etc

section 20

##### Depositary receipts and clearance services

###### Introduction

1

FA 1986 is amended as follows.

###### Stamp duty

2

In section 67 (stamp duty: depositary receipts)—

2.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “1.5% charge” ;

2.b

in subsection (1) omit “(other than a bearer instrument)”;

2.c

after that subsection insert—

2.c.1A

For the purposes of subsection (1) “ instrument ” does not include—

2.c.1A.a

a bearer instrument (see subsection (9A));

2.c.1A.b

an exempt capital-raising instrument (see  section 72ZA );

2.c.1A.c

an exempt listing instrument (see  section 72ZB ).

;

2.d

after subsection (9) insert—

2.d.9ZA

Where an instrument transfers shares in a company which are held by the
company (whether in accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006
(treasury shares) or otherwise), subsections (2) to (5) do not apply and stamp
duty is not chargeable on the instrument.

3

In section 69 (depositary receipts: supplementary), in subsection (1), in the
words before paragraph (a), for “sections 67 and 68 above” substitute
“sections 67, 68 and  72ZB ” .

4

In section 70 (stamp duty: clearance services)—

4.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “1.5% charge” ;

4.b

in subsection (1) omit “(other than a bearer instrument)”;

4.c

after that subsection insert—

4.c.1A

For the purposes of subsection (1) “ instrument ” does not include—

4.c.1A.a

a bearer instrument (see subsection (9A));

4.c.1A.b

an exempt capital-raising instrument (see  section 72ZA );

4.c.1A.c

an exempt listing instrument (see  section 72ZB ).

;

4.d

after subsection (9) insert—

4.d.9ZA

Where an instrument transfers shares in a company which are held by the
company (whether in accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006
(treasury shares) or otherwise), subsections (2) to (5) do not apply and stamp
duty is not chargeable on the instrument.

5

After section 72 (clearance services: supplementary) insert—

########## Meaning of “exempt capital-raising instrument” and “exempt listing instrument”

########### Meaning of “exempt capital-raising instrument”

5.72ZA

5.72ZA.1

For the purposes of sections 67 and 70, an instrument is an “exempt capital-
raising instrument” if the instrument transfers relevant securities in the
course of capital-raising arrangements.

5.72ZA.2

In this section, “ capital-raising arrangements ” means arrangements pursuant
to which relevant securities are issued by a company for the purpose of
raising new capital.

5.72ZA.3

An instrument is not prevented from being an exempt capital-raising instrument
by reason only of a delay in transferring relevant securities where—

5.72ZA.3.a

a person (“ the transferor ”) acquires the relevant securities—

5.72ZA.3.a.i

before capital-raising arrangements are entered into, or

5.72ZA.3.a.ii

in the course of capital-raising arrangements,

5.72ZA.3.b

the transferor is subject to a restriction that has the effect of preventing
the transfer of the relevant securities in the course of the capital-raising
arrangements, and

5.72ZA.3.c

the instrument transfers the relevant securities as soon as reasonably
practicable after the time at which the restriction ceases to have effect.

########### Meaning of “exempt listing instrument”

5.72ZB

5.72ZB.1

For the purposes of sections 67 and 70, an instrument is an “exempt listing
instrument” if—

5.72ZB.1.a

the instrument transfers relevant securities of a company in the course of
qualifying listing arrangements, and

5.72ZB.1.b

those arrangements do not affect the beneficial ownership of the relevant
securities.

5.72ZB.2

In this section, “ listing arrangements ” means arrangements pursuant to which
relevant securities, or depositary receipts for relevant securities, are
listed on a recognised stock exchange.

5.72ZB.3

For the purposes of this section, listing arrangements are “qualifying” if,
immediately before the first transfer of relevant securities in the course of
the listing arrangements, no relevant securities in the company or depositary
receipts for relevant securities in the company are listed on the recognised
stock exchange to which the listing arrangements relate.

5.72ZB.4

An instrument is not prevented from being an exempt listing instrument by
reason only of a delay in transferring relevant securities where—

5.72ZB.4.a

a person (“ the transferor ”) acquires the relevant securities before
qualifying listing arrangements are entered into,

5.72ZB.4.b

the transferor is subject to a restriction that has the effect of preventing
the transfer of the relevant securities in the course of the qualifying
listing arrangements, and

5.72ZB.4.c

the instrument transfers the relevant securities as soon as reasonably
practicable after the time at which the restriction ceases to have effect.

5.72ZB.5

Section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007 (meaning of “ recognised stock
exchange ”, “ listed ” etc) applies in relation to this section as it applies
in relation to the Income Tax Acts.

###### Stamp duty reserve tax

6

6.1

Section 90 (section 87: other exceptions) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (3C)—

6.2.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

6.2.b

omit paragraph (b).

6.3

In subsection (3E) omit paragraph (b).

6.4

In subsection (4)—

6.4.a

the words from “falling within” to the end become paragraph (a);

6.4.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

6.4.b.b

which would fall within section 93(1) or section 96(1) if the references in
section 93 or section 96 (as the case may be) to the transfer of chargeable
securities included the issue of chargeable securities.

7

7.1

In the italic heading before section 93 (SDRT: depositary receipts), at the
end insert  “: depositary receipts” .

7.2

In section 93—

7.2.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “: 1.5% charge” ;

7.2.b

in subsection (1)—

7.2.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a) omit “Subject to subsection (7) below and
section 95 below,”;

7.2.b.ii

in paragraph (b) omit “or issued”;

7.2.c

after that subsection insert—

7.2.c.1A

The following provisions contain exceptions to the charge to stamp duty
reserve tax under this section—

7.2.c.1A.a

subsection (7) of this section (exception so far as stamp duty is chargeable);

7.2.c.1A.b

section 95 (general exceptions);

7.2.c.1A.c

section 95A (replacement securities);

7.2.c.1A.d

section 97AB  (exempt capital-raising transfers);

7.2.c.1A.e

section 97AC  (exempt listing transfers);

7.2.c.1A.f

section 97AD  (exception for transfers of shares held by issuing company);

7.2.c.1A.g

section 97B (transfers between depositary receipt system and clearance
system).

;

7.2.d

in subsection (4) omit paragraph (a);

7.2.e

omit subsection (10).

8

In section 94 (depositary receipts: supplementary), in subsection (1), in the
words before paragraph (a), for “section 93 above” substitute  “sections 93
and  97AC ” .

9

In section 95 (depositary receipts: exceptions)—

9.a

in subsection (1), in the words after paragraph (b) omit “subject to section
97C,”;

9.b

in subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a) omit “, issue”;

9.c

omit subsections (3) to (5);

9.d

omit subsection (7).

10

In section 95A (depositary receipts: exception for replacement securities)—

10.a

in subsection (1) omit “, issue”;

10.b

in subsection (3)—

10.b.i

in paragraph (a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i) omit “, issue”;

10.b.ii

in paragraph (b) omit “or (3)”;

10.c

in subsection (4), in paragraph (a) omit “, issued”.

11

11.1

Before section 96 (SDRT: clearance services) insert—

  Other charges: clearance services

.

11.2

In section 96—

11.2.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “: 1.5% charge” ;

11.2.b

in subsection (1)—

11.2.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a) omit “Subject to subsection (5) below and
sections 97 and 97A below,”;

11.2.b.ii

in paragraph (b) omit “or issued”;

11.2.c

after that subsection insert—

11.2.c.1A

The following provisions contain exceptions to the charge to stamp duty
reserve tax under this section—

11.2.c.1A.a

subsection (5) of this section (exception so far as stamp duty is chargeable);

11.2.c.1A.b

section 97 (general exceptions);

11.2.c.1A.c

section 97ZA (exception for replacement securities);

11.2.c.1A.d

section 97A (election for alternative system of charge);

11.2.c.1A.e

section 97AB  (exempt capital-raising transfers);

11.2.c.1A.f

section 97AC  (exempt listing transfers);

11.2.c.1A.g

section 97AD  (exception for transfers of shares held by issuing company);

11.2.c.1A.h

section 97B (transfers between depositary receipt system and clearance
system).

;

11.2.d

in subsection (2) omit paragraph (a);

11.2.e

omit subsection (8).

12

12.1

Section 97 (clearance services: exceptions) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1), in the words after paragraph (b) omit “subject to section
97C,”.

12.3

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a) omit “or issue”.

12.4

Omit subsections (4) to (6).

13

13.1

Section 97AA (clearance services: further exception) is renumbered section
97ZA.

13.2

In that section—

13.2.a

in the heading, for “further exception” substitute  “exception for replacement
securities” ;

13.2.b

in subsection (1) omit “or issue”;

13.2.c

in subsection (3)—

13.2.c.i

in paragraph (a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i) omit “or issue”;

13.2.c.ii

in paragraph (b) omit “or (4)”;

13.2.d

in subsection (4), in paragraph (a) omit “or issued”.

14

14.1

Section 97A (clearance services: election for alternative system of charge) is
amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (3), in paragraph (a) omit “or issue”.

14.3

In subsection (4), in both places omit “, issue”.

15

After section 97A insert—

########## Depositary receipts and clearance services: further exceptions

########### Exempt capital-raising transfers

15.97AB

15.97AB.1

There is to be no charge to tax under section 93 or 96 in respect of an exempt
capital-raising transfer.

15.97AB.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , a transfer of chargeable securities is
an “exempt capital-raising transfer” if the transfer is in the course of
capital-raising arrangements.

15.97AB.3

In this section, “ capital-raising arrangements ” means arrangements pursuant
to which chargeable securities are issued by a company for the purpose of
raising new capital.

15.97AB.4

A transfer of chargeable securities is not prevented from being an exempt
capital-raising transfer by reason only of a delay in transferring the
chargeable securities where—

15.97AB.4.a

a person (“ the transferor ”) acquires the chargeable securities—

15.97AB.4.a.i

before capital-raising arrangements are entered into, or

15.97AB.4.a.ii

in the course of capital-raising arrangements,

15.97AB.4.b

the transferor is subject to a restriction that has the effect of preventing
the transfer of the chargeable securities in the course of the capital-raising
arrangements, and

15.97AB.4.c

the transfer is made as soon as reasonably practicable after the time at which
the restriction ceases to have effect.

########### Exempt listing transfers

15.97AC

15.97AC.1

There is to be no charge to tax under section 93 or 96 in respect of an exempt
listing transfer.

15.97AC.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , a transfer of chargeable securities
issued by a company is an “exempt listing transfer” if—

15.97AC.2.a

it is a transfer in the course of qualifying listing arrangements, and

15.97AC.2.b

those arrangements do not affect the beneficial ownership of the chargeable
securities.

15.97AC.3

In this section, “ listing arrangements ” means arrangements pursuant to which
chargeable securities, or depositary receipts for chargeable securities, are
listed on a recognised stock exchange.

15.97AC.4

For the purposes of this section, listing arrangements are “qualifying” if,
immediately before the first transfer of chargeable securities in the course
of the listing arrangements, no chargeable securities in the company or
depositary receipts for chargeable securities in the company are listed on the
recognised stock exchange to which the listing arrangements relate.

15.97AC.5

A transfer of chargeable securities is not prevented from being an exempt
listing transfer by reason only of a delay in transferring the chargeable
securities where—

15.97AC.5.a

a person (“ the transferor ”) acquires the chargeable securities before
qualifying listing arrangements are entered into,

15.97AC.5.b

the transferor is subject to a restriction that has the effect of preventing
the transfer of the chargeable securities in the course of the qualifying
listing arrangements, and

15.97AC.5.c

the transfer is made as soon as reasonably practicable after the time at which
the restriction ceases to have effect.

15.97AC.6

Section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007 (meaning of “ recognised stock
exchange ”, “ listed ” etc) applies in relation to this section as it applies
in relation to the Income Tax Acts.

########### Exception for transfers of shares held by issuing company

15.97AD

There is to be no charge to tax under section 93 or 96 in respect of a
transfer of shares in a company which are held by the company (whether in
accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 (treasury shares) or
otherwise).

16

In section 97B (transfer between depositary receipt system and clearance
system) omit subsection (1A).

17

Omit section 97C (transfers to non-EU depositary receipt and clearance
services systems).

##### Bearer instruments

18

In section 79 of FA 1986 (stamp duty: loan capital: new provisions), in
subsection (2)—

18.a

omit “on the issue of an instrument which relates to loan capital or”;

18.b

for “such an instrument” substitute  “an instrument which relates to loan
capital” .

19

19.1

Schedule 15 to FA 1999 (stamp duty: bearer instruments) is amended as follows.

19.2

Omit paragraph 1 (charge on issue of instrument) and the italic heading before
it.

19.3

In paragraph 2 (charge on transfers of stock by means of instrument), in the
words before paragraph (a) omit “duty was not chargeable under paragraph 1 on
the issue of the instrument and”.

19.4

In paragraph 4 (1.5% rate of duty) omit “or 6”.

19.5

Omit paragraph 7 (ascertainment of market value for charge on issue of
instrument).

19.6

In paragraph 17 (exemption for issue of instruments relating to non-sterling
stock), in sub-paragraph (1)—

19.6.a

in the words before paragraph (a) omit “the issue of”;

19.6.b

omit the words after paragraph (b).

19.7

Omit the italic heading before paragraph 21.

19.8

Omit paragraph 21 (procedure for stamping instruments where duty chargeable on
issue).

19.9

Omit paragraph 22 (consequences of default in complying with procedure for
stamping).

##### Minor and consequential amendments

20

In section 131 of FA 1976 (Inter-American Development Bank), in subsection (3)
omit “on the issue of any instrument by the Bank or”.

21

21.1

In section 126 of FA 1984 (tax exemptions in relation to designated
international organisations), subsection (3) is amended as follows.

21.2

In paragraph (c) omit “on the issue of any instrument by the organisation or”.

21.3

Omit paragraph (d).

22

In section 99 of FA 1986 (interpretation), in subsection (10), in the words
before paragraph (a), for “97AA” substitute  “97ZA” .

23

23.1

Section 50 of FA 1987 (warrants to purchase Government stock etc) is amended
as follows.

23.2

In subsection (2)—

23.2.a

omit paragraph (a);

23.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “such an instrument” substitute  “an instrument which
relates to an interest, right or option within subsection (1)” .

23.3

In subsection (3)—

23.3.a

omit paragraph (b);

23.3.b

in paragraph (c), for “under that Schedule” substitute  “under Schedule 15 to
the Finance Act 1999 (stamp duty: bearer instruments)” .

24

24.1

Section 143 of FA 1988 (stamp duty: paired shares) is amended as follows.

24.2

Omit subsections (2) and (3).

24.3

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), for “such as is mentioned in subsection
(3)(a) above” substitute  “for sale of such units to the public made at the
same time and at a broadly equivalent price in a country other than the United
Kingdom or the foreign country” .

##### Commencement and transitional provision

###### Commencement

25

The amendments made by this Schedule have effect—

25.a

as they apply for the purposes of stamp duty, in relation to instruments
executed on or after 1 January 2024;

25.b

as they apply for the purposes of stamp duty reserve tax, in relation to—

25.b.i

agreements to transfer chargeable securities made on or after that day;

25.b.ii

the transfer or issue of chargeable securities on or after that day.

###### Transitional provision: depositary receipts: exception from SDRT for replacement securities

26

26.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of section 95A of FA 1986 (depositary
receipts: exception for replacement securities) where the securities mentioned
in subsection (3)(a) of that section were issued before 1 January 2024.

26.2

The amendments made by  paragraphs 7  and  10  are to be disregarded.

###### Transitional provision: clearance services: exception from SDRT for replacement securities

27

27.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of section 97ZA of FA 1986 (clearance
services: exception for replacement securities) where the securities mentioned
in subsection (3)(a) of that section were issued before 1 January 2024.

27.2

The amendments made by  paragraphs 11  and  13  are to be disregarded.

###### Transitional provision: bearer instruments

28

28.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies in relation to bearer instruments issued before 1
January 2024—

28.1.a

in the United Kingdom, or

28.1.b

outside the United Kingdom by or on behalf of a UK company.

28.2

The amendment made by  paragraph 19 (3)  is to be disregarded.

28.3

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ bearer instrument ” and “ UK company ” have the same
meaning as in Schedule 15 to FA 1999 (see paragraphs 3 and 11 of that
Schedule).

28.4

Sub-paragraph (5) applies in relation to UK bearer instruments within the
meaning of section 99(1A) of FA 1986 issued before 1 January 2024.

28.5

The amendments made by paragraph 6(2) and (3) are to be disregarded.

###### Transitional provision: warrants to purchase Government stock etc

29

29.1

This paragraph applies in relation to securities constituted by or
transferable by means of an instrument issued before 1 January 2024.

29.2

The amendments made by  paragraph 23  are to be disregarded.

  Pillar Two

Section 22

##### Introduction

1

1.1

F(No.2)A 2023 is amended in accordance with  Parts 2  to  4  of  this Schedule
.

1.2

The amendments made by those Parts have effect for accounting periods
beginning on or after 31 December 2023.

##### Multinational top-up tax

###### Partnerships

2

2.1

In section 122 (chargeable persons)—

2.1.a

in subsection (1)(a)(ii), omit “that is not a body corporate”,

2.1.b

in subsection (2)(c)(ii), omit “that is not a body corporate”, and

2.1.c

omit subsections (4) to (6).

2.2

After section 232, insert—

############ Partnerships

2.2.232A

2.2.232A.1

A partnership is to be regarded for the purposes of this Part as continuing to
be the same partnership regardless of a change in membership, provided that a
person who was a member before the change remains a member after the change.

2.2.232A.2

Where—

2.2.232A.2.a

ownership interests in a partnership are transferred to more than one
individual or entity, and

2.2.232A.2.b

the result is a partnership of which none of the original partners are
members,

that new partnership is to be treated as if it were the same partnership as
the old partnership.

2.2.232A.3

Where a partnership is otherwise dissolved in an accounting period—

2.2.232A.3.a

the partnership is to be treated as a continuing entity for the purpose of
dealing with its rights and obligations under this Part in respect of that
accounting period and previous accounting periods, and

2.2.232A.3.b

for the purposes of Schedule 14 (administration) each person who was a partner
in that accounting period (before the partnership’s dissolution) is to be
treated as a partner of the continuing entity.

2.2.232A.4

The reference in  subsection (2)  to a transfer of ownership interests
includes any series of transactions having the effect of a transfer (including
by way of the cancellation of interests and the issue of corresponding
interests).

2.3

In section 259 (other definitions), in subsection (1) at the appropriate place
insert—

      “ partnership ” does not include anything that is a body corporate;

2.4

After section 268 insert—

############ Partnerships

2.4.268A

Section 232A (partnerships) applies for the purposes of this Part as it
applies for the purposes of Part 3.

2.5

In section 269 (chargeable persons for domestic top-up tax)—

2.5.a

in subsection (1)—

2.5.a.i

in paragraph (a), omit “that is not a body corporate”, and

2.5.a.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “that is not a body corporate” in the second place it
occurs, and

2.5.b

omit subsections (4) to (6).

2.6

In Schedule 14 (administration of multinational top-up tax)—

2.6.a

in paragraph 3—

2.6.a.i

in paragraph (a) of sub-paragraph (2), omit “or a limited liability
partnership”,

2.6.a.ii

in that sub-paragraph, omit paragraph (c), and

2.6.a.iii

for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

2.6.a.iii.3

In this Schedule—

2.6.a.iii.3.a

“ limited partnership ” includes an entity established under the law of a
territory outside the United Kingdom that is equivalent to a limited
partnership, and

2.6.a.iii.3.b

“ general partner ” includes a partner of such an entity that corresponds to a
general partner.

2.6.a.iii.4

See also section 232A, which contains provision about the continuity of
partnerships which is relevant to this paragraph.

2.6.a.iii.5

Where an obligation of a partnership may be met by one of its partners and the
partnership does not comply with that obligation—

2.6.a.iii.5.a

an officer of Revenue and Customs may by notice require any such partner to
meet the obligation, and

2.6.a.iii.5.b

that partner is to be treated for that purpose as the filing member (and
accordingly may be subject to any penalty for a failure to comply).

,

2.6.b

after paragraph 37 insert—

############## Partnership payment notices

2.6.b.37A

2.6.b.37A.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may issue a partnership payment notice if an
amount of multinational top-up tax payable by a member of a multinational
group that is a partnership (including any interest on that amount) is not
paid by the end of the period of three months beginning with the relevant date
(see paragraph 34(7) to (9)).

2.6.b.37A.2

A partnership payment notice may be issued to any person (wherever in the
world they are located) who—

2.6.b.37A.2.a

is a partner, or

2.6.b.37A.2.b

was a partner at any time in the accounting period to which the amount payable
relates.

2.6.b.37A.3

A partnership payment notice is a notice requiring the recipient to pay an
outstanding amount of multinational top-up tax payable by a member of the
group that is a partnership by a date specified in the notice.

2.6.b.37A.4

Sub-paragraphs (4) to (9) of paragraph 34 and paragraph 36 apply to a
partnership payment notice as they apply to a group payment notice.

2.6.b.37A.5

In this paragraph and in  paragraph 37B , reference to a partner, in the case
of a limited partnership, is to a general partner.

############## Recovery of partnership payment and effect for tax purposes etc

2.6.b.37B

2.6.b.37B.1

This paragraph applies where a partner of a member of a multinational group
that is a partnership (the “payer”) makes a payment in respect of the
liability to pay multinational top-up tax of the partnership (whether or not
in consequence of a partnership payment notice).

2.6.b.37B.2

The payer may recover the amount from the other partners.

2.6.b.37B.3

In calculating the payer's income, profits or losses for tax purposes—

2.6.b.37B.3.a

the payment is not allowed as a deduction, and

2.6.b.37B.3.b

the reimbursement of any such payment is not to be regarded as a receipt.

2.6.b.37B.4

The payment or its reimbursement—

2.6.b.37B.4.a

is not (otherwise) to be taken into account in calculating the profits or
losses of for corporation tax or income tax purposes of either the payer or
the other partners, and

2.6.b.37B.4.b

is not to be regarded as a distribution for income tax or corporation tax
purposes.

2.6.b.37B.5

The amount paid by the payer is to be taken into account in calculating—

2.6.b.37B.5.a

the amount of multinational top-up tax unpaid by the partnership, and

2.6.b.37B.5.b

the amount due by virtue of a partnership payment notice relating to the
amount unpaid.

2.6.b.37B.6

Similarly, any payment by the partnership or by any of the other partners of
any of the amount unpaid is to be taken into account in calculating the amount
due by virtue of a partnership payment notice (or by virtue of any other
partnership payment notice relating to the amount unpaid).

2.6.b.37B.7

In this paragraph, “ for tax purposes ” means for the purposes of income tax,
corporation tax, multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax.

, and

2.6.c

in paragraph 39—

2.6.c.i

omit the “or” after paragraph (a) in sub-paragraph (1),

2.6.c.ii

after that paragraph insert—

2.6.c.ii.aa

a partner of a partnership makes a payment on behalf of the partnership or
another partner, or

, and

2.6.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (2), after paragraph (a) insert—

2.6.c.iii.aa

deeming a payment made by a partner of a partnership to have been made by the
partnership or another partner;

.

2.7

In Schedule 17 (index of defined expressions), in the table, at the
appropriate places insert—

    general partner (in Schedule 14) paragraph 3(3) of Schedule 14

;

    limited partnership (in Schedule 14) paragraph 3(3) of Schedule 14

;

    partnership section 259(1);

.

###### Qualifying non-profit subsidiaries

3

In section 127 (excluded entities), in subsection (5)—

3.a

for paragraph (b) substitute—

3.a.b

the revenue (see section 129(5)) of the multinational group of which the
entity is a member, excluding the revenues of each member that is a non-profit
organisation, a qualifying service entity or a qualifying exempt income
entity—

3.a.b.i

would not exceed the threshold set out in section 129(4), and

3.a.b.ii

is less than 25% of the total revenue of the group, and

, and

3.b

omit paragraph (c) (and the “and” after it).

###### Charging permanent establishments of intermediate/partially-owned parent members

4

4.1

Section 128 (responsible members) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (3), for paragraph (c) substitute—

4.2.c

at least one member of the group in which it has an ownership interest, or a
permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, has a top-up amount
or an additional top-up amount.

4.3

In subsection (4), after “for” insert

—

4.3.a

every permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, and

4.3.b



.

4.4

In subsection (5), for paragraph (b) substitute—

4.4.b

at least one member of the group in which it has an ownership interest, or a
permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, has a top-up amount
or an additional top-up amount.

4.5

In subsection (6), after “for” insert

—

4.5.a

every permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, and

4.5.b



.

4.6

In section 232, after subsection (3) insert—

4.6.3A

But an entity with a permanent establishment is not to be taken as having
ownership interests in that permanent establishment.

###### De-merged groups

5

5.1

Section 131 (whether de-merged groups meet the revenue threshold) is amended
as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1), omit “if” in the second place it occurs (immediately
following “A de-merged group meets condition A”).

5.3

For subsection (2) substitute—

5.3.2

In this section “ qualifying de-merger ” means the separation of members of a
relevant multinational group into two or more consolidated groups in an
accounting period of the relevant multinational group, such that those members
cease to all be consolidated by the same ultimate parent.

5.3.3

A multinational group is relevant in an accounting period if—

5.3.3.a

it meets condition A in section 129(2) for that period (revenue threshold
exceeded in at least 2 of previous 4 accounting periods), and

5.3.3.b

Pillar Two rules apply to any member of the group for that period.

###### Adjustment for changes in accounting policies and prior period errors

6

In section 146 (adjustment for changes in accounting policies and prior period
errors), in paragraph (b), for the words from “correction”, in the second
place it occurs, to the end substitute  “error results in a recalculation
under section 217(5) (post filing adjustments of covered taxes)” .

###### Pension expense

7

For section 147 (accrued pension expense) substitute—

########## Accrued pension expense

7.147

7.147.1

This section applies in an accounting period where a member of a multinational
group—

7.147.1.a

has made contributions to a pension fund in the period,

7.147.1.b

has received amounts from the pension fund in the period, or

7.147.1.c

otherwise has amounts of income or expense relating to the pension fund
reflected in its underlying profits.

7.147.2

Take the amount of income or expense (expressed as a negative number where
expense) that has arisen directly in respect of the fund as reflected in the
member’s underlying profits and—

7.147.2.a

add the sum of contributions made to the fund by the member in the period, and

7.147.2.b

subtract any amount received by the member from the fund in the period.

7.147.3

If the result of subsection (2)—

7.147.3.a

is more than nil, reduce the underlying profits by that result, or

7.147.3.b

is less than nil, increase the underlying profits by that result (as expressed
a positive number).

###### Tax credits

8

8.1

After section 147 insert—

############ Treatment of tax credits

8.1.147A

8.1.147A.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group, and the covered
tax balance of that member (see Chapter 5), are to be adjusted (if necessary)
to secure that—

8.1.147A.1.a

qualifying refundable tax credits are accounted for as income rather than as
tax expense,

8.1.147A.1.b

tax credits that are marketable transferable tax credits in relation to the
member are accounted for as income rather than as tax expense, and

8.1.147A.1.c

other tax credits are accounted for as tax expense rather than as income.

8.1.147A.2

Section 148 sets out when tax credits are qualifying refundable tax credits.

8.1.147A.3

Section  148A  sets out the meaning of “transferable tax credit” and
“marketable transferable tax credit”.

8.1.147A.4

Sections  148B  and  148C  set out rules about the value of marketable
transferable tax credits.

8.1.147A.5

Sections  176A  to  176C  (in Chapter 5) set out rules about the value of tax
credits that are not marketable transferable tax credits but which are
transferable or were transferred (and which as a result of  subsection (1) (c)
are generally to be accounted for as tax expense).

8.1.147A.6

See also sections  176D  to  176F  which contain special rules for tax credits
received in under a tax equity partnership arrangement.

8.2

In section 148 (treatment of qualifying refundable tax credits)—

8.2.a

in the heading, for “Treatment” substitute  “Meaning” ,

8.2.b

omit subsection (1), and

8.2.c

in subsection (4)(b), omit “tax”.

8.3

After that section insert—

############ Transferable tax credits

8.3.148A

8.3.148A.1

A tax credit is a transferable tax credit in relation to a member of a
multinational group if—

8.3.148A.1.a

the member is—

8.3.148A.1.a.i

the person to whom the credit was originally granted (“the originator”), or

8.3.148A.1.a.ii

a person (“a purchaser”) who has acquired the credit (whether from the
originator or anyone else), and

8.3.148A.1.b

the transferability condition is met in relation to the member.

8.3.148A.2

A transferable tax credit is a marketable transferable tax credit in relation
to a member of a multinational group if—

8.3.148A.2.a

it is a transferable tax credit, and

8.3.148A.2.b

the marketable condition is met in relation to the member.

8.3.148A.3

Those conditions are met differently depending on whether the member is the
originator or a purchaser.

8.3.148A.4

The transferability condition is met—

8.3.148A.4.a

in relation to the originator if, under the law of the territory in which the
credit was granted, credits of that type may be transferred to a person or
entity that is not connected with originator before the end of 15 months after
the end of the accounting period in which the credit is granted, and

8.3.148A.4.b

in relation to a purchaser if, under the law of that territory, credits of
that type may be transferred to a person or entity that is not connected with
the purchaser—

8.3.148A.4.b.i

under the same or similar conditions as would apply to the originator, and

8.3.148A.4.b.ii

before the end of the accounting period in which it was transferred to the
purchaser.

8.3.148A.5

The marketable condition is met—

8.3.148A.5.a

in relation to the originator, if—

8.3.148A.5.a.i

the credit is transferred to a person or entity that is not connected with the
originator before the end of 15 months of the accounting period in which the
credit was granted at a price equal to or in excess of 80% of its net present
value, or

8.3.148A.5.a.ii

similar credits are traded between persons or entities that are not connected
to each other before the end of 15 months of the accounting period in which
they are granted, and are typically traded at a price equal to or in excess of
80% of their net present value, and

8.3.148A.5.b

in relation to a purchaser, if the purchaser acquired the credit from a person
or entity that is not connected to the purchaser at a price equal to or in
excess of 80% of its net present value.

8.3.148A.6

Subsections  (7)  and  (8)  apply for the purposes of determining the net
present value of a tax credit.

8.3.148A.7

In making that determination, assume that the entity that holds it will be
able to use it in the accounting periods in which it may be used.

8.3.148A.8

The discount rate to be used in making that determination is to be determined
by reference to the return on debt instruments that are issued by the
government of the territory in which the credit was granted—

8.3.148A.8.a

that have—

8.3.148A.8.a.i

the same, or a similar, maturity to the period over which the credit is to be
used, or

8.3.148A.8.a.ii

in a case in which the credit is to be used over a period exceeding 5 years, a
maturity of 5 years, and

8.3.148A.8.b

that are issued—

8.3.148A.8.b.i

in relation to a credit that has been transferred, in the accounting period in
which the credit was transferred, or

8.3.148A.8.b.ii

in relation to a credit held that has not been transferred, in the accounting
period in which it was granted.

8.3.148A.9

References in  subsections (6)  and  (8)  to an accounting period are—

8.3.148A.9.a

in relation to determining net present value in connection with determining
whether the marketable condition is met by the originator, an accounting
period of the originator, and

8.3.148A.9.b

in relation to determining net present value in connection with determining
whether the marketable condition is met by a purchaser, an accounting period
of the purchaser.

8.3.148A.10

Where a transferable tax credit is also a qualifying refundable tax credit, it
is to be treated as not being a transferable tax credit for the purposes of
this Part.

############ Value of marketable transferable tax credits: originator

8.3.148B

8.3.148B.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is the
originator in relation to a marketable transferable tax credit are to be
adjusted to secure that the value of marketable transferable tax credits it
holds, and has held, as originator are reflected as follows.

8.3.148B.2

Where the credit is not transferred before the end of 15 months after the end
of the accounting period in which it was granted, the full value of the credit
is to be recognised as income.

8.3.148B.3

Where the credit is subsequently transferred for consideration which is less
than the value of the credit, the difference between the value of the credit
and the consideration received for its transfer is to be recognised as a loss
in the accounting period in which it is transferred.

8.3.148B.4

Where the credit is transferred before the end of 15 months after the end of
the accounting period in which the credit is granted, the consideration for
the transfer (rather than the value of the credit) is to be recognised as
income.

8.3.148B.5

Where the credit has not been transferred, and was not fully used, before its
expiry, the value of so much of the credit as has not been used is to be
reflected as a loss in the accounting period in which the credit expired.

############ Value of marketable transferable tax credits: purchaser

8.3.148C

8.3.148C.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is the
purchaser in relation to a marketable transferable tax credit are to be
adjusted to secure that the value of marketable transferable tax credits it
holds, and has held, as purchaser are reflected as follows.

8.3.148C.2

On using an amount of the credit in an accounting period, the amount given by
subsection (3) is to be recognised as income.

8.3.148C.3

That amount is the amount given by multiplying—

8.3.148C.3.a

the amount used divided by the full value of the credit, by

8.3.148C.3.b

the amount given by subtracting the purchase price of the credit from the full
value of the credit.

8.3.148C.4

On transferring the credit, the amount in subsection (5) is to be reflected in
the underlying profits for the accounting period in which the transfer
occurred—

8.3.148C.4.a

if positive, as a gain, or

8.3.148C.4.b

if negative, as a loss.

8.3.148C.5

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

8.3.148C.5.a

the sum of—

8.3.148C.5.a.i

the purchase price of the credit, and

8.3.148C.5.a.ii

any amounts recognised as income in accordance with subsection (2) (whether in
that accounting period or a previous accounting period), from

8.3.148C.5.b

the sum of—

8.3.148C.5.b.i

the amount of the credit that has been used, and

8.3.148C.5.b.ii

the consideration for the transfer.

8.3.148C.6

Where the credit has not been transferred, and was not fully used, before its
expiry, the amount in subsection (7) is to be reflected as a loss in the
accounting period in which the credit expired.

8.3.148C.7

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

8.3.148C.7.a

the amount of the credit that was used, from

8.3.148C.7.b

the sum of the purchase price of the credit and any amounts recognised in
accordance with subsection (2).

8.4

In section 175 (amounts excluded from covered tax balance), in subsection (2),
in paragraph (c), after “credit”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “, or
in respect of a marketable transferable tax credit,” .

8.5

In section 176 (amounts to be reflected in covered tax balance), in subsection
(2)—

8.5.a

in paragraph (d), in sub-paragraph (i), after “credit” insert  “or a
marketable transferable tax credit” , and

8.5.b

in paragraph (e), after “credit” insert  “or a marketable transferable tax
credit” .

8.6

After section 176 insert—

############ Transferable tax credits

############# Meaning of “non-marketable transferable tax credits”

8.6.176A

8.6.176A.1

Sections  176B  and  176C  make provision about “non-marketable transferable
tax credits”.

8.6.176A.2

A tax credit held by a member of a multinational group that is the originator
of the credit is a non-marketable transferable tax credit if—

8.6.176A.2.a

it may be transferred to another person or entity, and

8.6.176A.2.b

it is neither a marketable transferable tax credit nor a qualifying refundable
tax credit.

8.6.176A.3

A tax credit held by a member of a multinational group as a purchaser of the
credit is a non-marketable transferable tax credit if it is neither a
marketable transferable tax credit nor a qualifying refundable tax credit.

8.6.176A.4

In this section and in sections  176B  and  176C  “originator” and “purchaser”
are to be construed in accordance with  section 148A (1) (a) .

############# Value of non-marketable transferable tax credits: originator

8.6.176B

8.6.176B.1

The covered tax balance of a member of a multinational group that holds a non-
marketable transferable tax credit as originator is to be adjusted to secure
that the value of the credit is reflected as follows.

8.6.176B.2

The value of the tax credit is to be reflected as it is used.

8.6.176B.3

If the credit is transferred (after the end of the period of 15 months after
the accounting period in which the credit is granted), the consideration for
the transfer is to be reflected as a credit in the accounting period in which
the transfer occurred.

############# Value of non-marketable transferable tax credits: purchaser

8.6.176C

8.6.176C.1

The covered tax balance of a member of a multinational group that holds a non-
marketable transferable tax credit as purchaser is to be adjusted to secure
that the value the credit is reflected as follows.

8.6.176C.2

On using an amount of the credit, the amount given by subsection (3) is to be
reflected as a credit in the covered tax balance for the accounting period in
which it is used.

8.6.176C.3

That amount is the amount given by multiplying—

8.6.176C.3.a

the amount used divided by the full value of the credit, by

8.6.176C.3.b

the amount given by subtracting the purchase price of the credit from the full
value of the credit.

8.6.176C.4

On transferring the credit, the amount in subsection (5) is—

8.6.176C.4.a

if positive, to be reflected as a credit in the covered tax balance for the
accounting period in which the transfer occurred, or

8.6.176C.4.b

if negative, to be reflected as a loss in the underlying profits of the member
for that period.

8.6.176C.5

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

8.6.176C.5.a

the sum of—

8.6.176C.5.a.i

the purchase price of the credit, and

8.6.176C.5.a.ii

any amounts recognised reflected in the covered tax balance in accordance with
subsection (2) (whether in that accounting period or a previous accounting
period), from

8.6.176C.5.b

the sum of—

8.6.176C.5.b.i

the amount of the credit that has been used, and

8.6.176C.5.b.ii

the consideration for the transfer.

8.6.176C.6

Where the credit has not been transferred, and was not fully used, before its
expiry, the amount in subsection (7) is to be reflected as a loss in the
underlying profits of the member for the accounting period in which the credit
expired.

8.6.176C.7

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

8.6.176C.7.a

the amount of the credit that was used, from

8.6.176C.7.b

the sum of the purchase price of the credit and any amounts recognised in
accordance with subsection (2).

###### Adjustments for companies in distress

9

9.1

Section 151 (adjustments for companies in distress) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)—

9.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “group” insert  “for an accounting
period” ,

9.2.b

omit the “and” after paragraph (a),

9.2.c

after that paragraph insert—

9.2.c.aa

that release is reflected in the underlying profits of the member for that
period,

, and

9.2.d

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

9.2.d.c

the filing member of the group elects that this section should apply to the
member for that period.

9.3

In subsection (6)(c) for “deferred tax assets” substitute  “local tax
attributes” .

9.4

After subsection (6) insert—

9.4.6A

For the purposes of subsection (6)(c) “ local tax attributes ” means any tax
attributes (which may include foreign tax credits) of the member that are
recognised under the law of the territory in which the member is located
(whether or not such tax attributes are excluded from the member’s covered tax
balance).

9.5

 For subsection (7) substitute—

9.5.7

Where more than one debt is released at the same time, the debts released are
to be treated as a single aggregate amount for the purpose of assessing
whether conditions in this section are met (for example, whether the member’s
assets exceed its liabilities at any time).

9.6

After that subsection insert—

9.6.8

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
subsection (1)(c).

###### Adjustments where life assurance business carried on

10

10.1

Section 152 is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (2), for “formed part of the member’s tax expense amount”
substitute  “been included in the member’s covered tax balance” .

10.3

For subsection (4) substitute—

10.3.4

In this section “ life assurance business ” means—

10.3.4.a

a life assurance business within the meaning of section 56 of FA 2012, or

10.3.4.b

a business regulated as a life assurance business under the law of a territory
outside the United Kingdom.

###### Exclusion of certain insurance reserve movement expense

11

In section 153 (exclusion of certain insurance reserve movement expense), in
subsection (1) after “excluded dividends” insert  “falling within section
141(2)(b)” .

###### Permanent establishment income and expense attribution

12

12.1

Section 159 (permanent establishment income and expense attribution) is
amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1), for the words from “only” to the end substitute  “—

12.2.a

reflect all amounts of income and expense that are attributable to it in
accordance with the tax treaty under which it is treated as a permanent
establishment, and

12.2.b

do not reflect amounts attributable to its main entity in accordance with that
treaty.

12.3

In subsection (2), for the words from “only” to the end substitute

—

12.3.a

reflect all amounts of income and expense that are attributable to it in
accordance with the law of the territory in which the member is located, and

12.3.b

do not reflect amounts attributable to its main entity in accordance with the
law of that territory.

12.4

In subsection (3), for the words from “only” to the end substitute

—

12.4.a

reflect all amounts of income and expense that would be attributed to it in
accordance with Article 7 of the OECD tax model, and

12.4.b

do not reflect amounts that would be attributed to its main entity in
accordance with the OECD tax model.

12.5

After that subsection insert—

12.5.4

Amounts are to be reflected (or, as the case may be, not reflected) in the
underlying profits of a permanent establishment in accordance with subsections
(1) to (3) whether or not—

12.5.4.a

in the case of an amount of income, it is subject to tax or not, or

12.5.4.b

in the case of an amount of expense, it is deductible or not.

###### Election to spread certain capital gains

13

13.1

Section 163 (election to spread capital gains over five years) is amended as
follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), for “collectively” substitute  “and those preceding periods
are referred to collectively as” .

13.3

In subsection (2)—

13.3.a

for Step 1 substitute—

      Step 1       For each standard member of the group in the territory in
the first accounting period of the look-back period (“the carry-back period”),
determine whether it has net losses in respect of the disposal of local
tangible assets (ignoring any losses in relation to which these steps have
previously been carried out).

, and

13.3.b

for Steps 9 to 11 substitute—

      Step 9       Determine which of the standard members of the group
(“current gain members”) located in the territory have net gains from the
disposal of local tangible assets in the election period.       A current gain
member is not to be regarded as a current gain member in any accounting period
in which—         it is not a standard member of the group, or           it is
not located in the territory.                 Step 10       For the election
period and each accounting period that is in the look-back period, adjust the
underlying profits for that period (“the adjustment period”) of each current
gain member by adding the amount given by multiplying—         the result of
Step 8, by           the amount given by dividing—         the net gains of
the current gain member from the disposal of local tangible assets in the
election period, by           the sum of net gains from the disposal of local
tangible assets in the election period of all current gain members in the
adjustment period.                       Step 11       Where there are no
current gain members in an accounting period in the look-back period, adjust
the underlying profits for that period of each standard member located in the
territory for that period by adding the amount given by multiplying—
the result of Step 8, by           the amount given by dividing 1 by the
number of standard members of the group in the territory in that accounting
period.                 Step 12       Where there are no standard members of
the group in the territory in one or more accounting periods in the look-back
period, further adjust the underlying profits for the election period of each
current gain member by adding the amount given by multiplying—         the
result of Step 8 multiplied by the number of accounting periods in the look-
back period in which no standard members of the group were located in the
territory, by           the amount given by dividing—         the net gains of
the current gain member from the disposal of local tangible assets in the
election period, by           the sum of net gains from the disposal of local
tangible assets in the election period of all current gain members.

13.4

In subsection (3), omit “standard”.

###### Transparent entities etc

14

14.1

Section 168 (underlying profits of transparent and reverse hybrid entities) is
amended in accordance with  sub-paragraphs (2)  to  (8) .

14.2

In subsection (2), in paragraph (b), after territory insert  “as a result of
being tax resident in that territory” .

14.3

In subsection (3), after “entity” insert  “or individual” .

14.4

In subsection (6), in paragraph (a), after “is” insert  “an entity that is”

14.5

For subsection (9) substitute—

14.5.9

Where underlying profits of M—

14.5.9.a

are allocated to an individual or an entity that is not a member of the group
of which M is a member, or

14.5.9.b

would be allocated to such an individual or entity if M were regarded as tax
transparent in the territory in which the individual or entity is located,

those profits are to be excluded from the adjusted profits of M.

14.6

In subsection (10), after “entity” insert  “or an individual” .

14.7

In subsection (11), in the words before paragraph (a), for “is located”
substitute  “was created, R is not tax resident in any territory” .

14.8

After that subsection insert—

14.8.12

For the purposes of applying this section in relation to a multinational group
whose ultimate parent is a flow-through entity, the ultimate parent is to be
treated as if it were not regarded as tax transparent in the territory in
which it is located.

14.9

In section 170 (adjustments for ultimate parent that is a flow-through
entity)—

14.9.a

in subsection (2), for “an ownership interest (direct or indirect)” substitute
“a direct ownership interest” , and

14.9.b

after that subsection insert—

14.9.b.2A

Where profits are allocated to the ultimate parent as a result of section 168
(underlying profits of transparent and reverse hybrid entities), those profits
are to be regarded, for the purposes of this section, as profits to which
holders of ownership interests in the ultimate parent are entitled (to each in
proportion to the proportion of those profits to which they would have been
entitled had those profits actually accrued to the ultimate parent).

14.10

In section 238 (tax transparency of entities)—

14.10.a

for “if” substitute  “to the extent that” , and

14.10.b

for “and”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “or” .

###### Covered taxes

15

In section 173 (covered taxes), in subsection (1)(c) for “of the member”
substitute  “in which the tax is imposed” .

###### Tax equity partnerships

16

16.1

After section  176C  (as inserted by  paragraph 8 ), insert—

############ Tax equity partnerships

############# Tax credits etc allocated under tax equity partnerships

16.1.176D

16.1.176D.1

Where—

16.1.176D.1.a

a member of a multinational group is an investor in a tax equity partnership
arrangement, and

16.1.176D.1.b

an election under section 165 (excluded equity gains and losses included)
applies in relation to the member for an accounting period,

qualifying flow-through tax benefits provided to the member under that
arrangement in that period are to be excluded from the covered tax balance of
that member for that period.

16.1.176D.2

“ Flow-through tax benefits ” means tax credits, other than qualifying
refundable tax credits, and the value of amounts of tax deductible losses made
available to be used by an investor in a tax equity partnership arrangement
under that arrangement (whether or not those credits or losses are used by the
investor).

16.1.176D.3

Section  176E  (proportional amortisation method) applies for the purposes of
determining the extent to which flow-through tax benefits are “qualifying”
where—

16.1.176D.3.a

in determining the underlying profits of the investor, the proportional
amortisation method is used to account for the arrangement, or

16.1.176D.3.b

the filing member of the multinational group of which the investor is a member
has elected that section 176D should apply for those purposes in relation to
the member.

16.1.176D.4

Otherwise, section  176F  (subtraction method) applies for those purposes.

16.1.176D.5

For the purposes of this Part, a member of a multinational group is an
investor in a tax equity partnership arrangement if—

16.1.176D.5.a

the member has made an investment in an entity that is tax transparent in the
territory in which the member is located,

16.1.176D.5.b

the investment is treated as an equity interest for tax purposes in the
territory in which the member is located,

16.1.176D.5.c

the investment would, under an authorised accounting standard of the territory
in which the entity operates, be treated as an equity interest,

16.1.176D.5.d

the entity is not a member of the multinational group, and

16.1.176D.5.e

it is reasonable to expect, at the time of making the investment, that the
return on the investment would be negative in the absence of the provision of
flow-through tax benefits.

16.1.176D.6

But a member of a multinational group is not to be regarded as an investor in
a tax equity partnership arrangement if—

16.1.176D.6.a

the investment in the entity does not represent a genuine economic interest in
that entity such that the member is exposed to the possibility of a loss on
the investment, or

16.1.176D.6.b

the territory in which the member is located limits the use of tax equity
partnership arrangements to arrangements that involve a multinational group
subject to multinational top-up tax or its equivalent under the law of a
territory outside the United Kingdom.

16.1.176D.7

Flow-through tax benefits provided to a member of a multinational group in an
accounting period that are not qualifying are to be reflected as a credit in
the covered tax balance for that period.

16.1.176D.8

Flow-through tax benefits (whether qualifying or not) provided to a member of
a multinational group are not to be reflected in the underlying profits of
that member, even if that would be the effect of the election under section
165.

16.1.176D.9

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (a) , the “ proportional amortisation
method ” means a method of accounting under which—

16.1.176D.9.a

the initial capital investment in the arrangement is amortised over the term
of the investment with the amortisation expense for an accounting period based
on the proportion of the flow-through tax benefits expected to be provided
over the term of the arrangement that are expected to be provided in that
period, and

16.1.176D.9.b

the difference between the flow-through tax benefits received in an accounting
period and that amortisation expense for that period is reflected as tax
expense.

16.1.176D.10

For the purposes of this section and sections  176E  and  176F , the value of
an amount of tax deductible losses made available to be used by an investor is
given by multiplying the amount multiplied by the tax rate that applies to the
investor.

16.1.176D.11

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
subsection (3) (b) .

############# Flow-through tax benefits: proportional amortisation method

16.1.176E

16.1.176E.1

Where this section applies, to determine the extent to which flow-through tax
benefits provided to an investor in an accounting period under a tax equity
partnership arrangement are qualifying, take the following steps—

      Step 1       Determine the amount of capital investment provided by the
investor to the arrangement at its commencement.           Step 2       Divide
the flow-through through tax benefits provided under the arrangement in the
accounting period by the total flow-through tax benefits expected to be
provided over the whole term of the arrangement.           Step 3
Multiply the result of Step 1 by the result of Step 2.           Step 4
Add the following together—         the amounts, if any, of tax credits made
available to be used by the investor under the arrangement in the accounting
period;           the value of the amounts, if any, of tax deductible losses
made available to be used by the investor under the arrangement in the
accounting period;           the amounts, if any, of distributions made to the
investor in the accounting period;           the amounts, if any, received by
the investor for the sale of any part of its investment in the arrangement in
the accounting period.                 Step 5       If the result of Step 3 is
equal to or greater than the result of Step 4, all of the flow-through tax
benefits provided under the arrangement in the accounting period are
qualifying.       Otherwise proceed to Step 6.           Step 6       Subtract
the result of Step 3 from the result of Step 4.           Step 7       The
amount of the flow-through benefits provided under the arrangement in the
accounting period that is qualifying is the amount given by reducing the
amount of those benefits (but not below nil) by the result of Step 6.

16.1.176E.2

Accordingly, the amount by which those benefits are reduced in accordance with
Step 7 represents non-qualifying flow-through tax benefits which are to be
reflected as a credit in the investor’s covered tax balance.

############# Flow-through tax benefits: subtraction method

16.1.176F

Where this section applies, to determine the extent to which flow-through tax
benefits provided to an investor in an accounting period under a tax equity
partnership arrangement are qualifying, take the following steps—

      Step 1       Determine the amount of capital investment provided by the
investor to the arrangement at its commencement.           Step 2
Subtract the following from that amount—         the amounts, if any, of tax
credits made available to be used by the investor under the arrangement since
the commencement of the arrangement, other than tax credits that are not
qualifying refundable tax credits that were made available in the accounting
period;           the value of the amounts, if any, of tax deductible losses
made available to be used by the investor under the arrangement since its
commencement, other than losses made available in the accounting period;
the amounts, if any, of distributions made to the investor since the
arrangement’s commencement;           the amounts, if any, received by the
investor for the sale of any part of its investment in the arrangement.
Step 3       If the result of Step 2 is nil or less, no flow-through tax
benefits provided under arrangement in the accounting period are qualifying.
If the result of that step is more than nil, proceed to Step 4.           Step
4       Subtract the flow-through tax benefits provided to the investor in the
accounting period under the arrangement from the result of Step 2.
Step 5       If the result of Step 4 is nil or greater, all of the flow-
through tax benefits provided under the arrangement in the accounting period
are qualifying.       Otherwise, the amount of those benefits that is
qualifying is the amount of those benefits that when subtracted from the
result of Step 2 would give a result of nil.

16.2

In Schedule 15 (elections), in paragraph 2(1), before paragraph (a) insert—

16.2.za

section 176D (3) (b) ;

.

###### Reallocation of tax expense

17

17.1

In section 177 (permanent establishments), in subsection (1), after
“establishment”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “(and is to be
regarded as qualifying current tax expense of the permanent establishment for
the purposes of applying section 175(2)(a))” .

17.2

Section 178 (reallocation of tax expense) is amended as follows.

17.3

In subsection (1), in the words after paragraph (b) after “qualifying” insert
“current” .

17.4

After subsection (1) insert—

17.4.1A

Where—

17.4.1A.a

a member of a multinational group has an amount of qualifying current tax
expense,

17.4.1A.b

that amount is in respect of profits not included in the member’s underlying
profits, and

17.4.1A.c

if those profits had been included in the member’s underlying profits, a
corresponding amount of adjusted profits would have been allocated to another
member of the group (“ O ”) under section 167 or 168,

that qualifying current tax expense is to be allocated to O (and is to be
regarded as qualifying current tax expense of O for the purposes of applying
section 175(2)(a)).

17.4.1B

Section 175(2)(a) (exclusion of amounts relating to income or gains not
included in adjusted profits) applies to an amount of qualifying current tax
expense allocated in accordance with subsection (1) as if—

17.4.1B.a

the reference to the member’s adjusted profits were to the adjusted profits of
the member from whom the amount of qualifying current tax expense was
allocated, and

17.4.1B.b

profits allocated from that member to O under section 167 or 168 were not
excluded from the adjusted profits of that member.

17.5

In subsection (2), in the words before Step 1, after “O” insert  “(under
subsections (1) and (1A))” .

17.6

After subsection (4) insert—

17.6.5

Where an amount of qualifying current tax expense would have been allocated to
O, but the amount allocated is limited as a result of subsection (2) the
amount not allocated remains with the member from whom it otherwise would have
been allocated.

17.6.6

But if an amount would, ignoring this subsection, remain with the member from
whom it would have otherwise been allocated, and that amount relates to income
or gains that are not included in the adjusted profits of O, that amount is to
be excluded from the covered tax balance of both the member and O.

17.7

In section 179 (controlled foreign company tax regimes)—

17.7.a

after subsection (1) insert—

17.7.a.1A

Qualifying current tax expense allocated to F is to be regarded as qualifying
current tax expense of F for the purposes of applying section 175(2)(a).

17.7.b

after subsection (3) insert—

17.7.b.3A

Where an amount of qualifying current tax expense would have been allocated to
F but the amount allocated is limited as a result of subsection (2), the
amount not allocated remains with C.

17.7.b.3B

But if an amount would, ignoring this subsection, remain with C and that
amount relates to income or gains that are not included in the adjusted
profits of F, that amount is to be excluded from the covered tax balance of
both C and F.

###### Controlled foreign company tax regimes

18

18.1

Section 179 (controlled foreign company tax regimes) is amended as follows.

18.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (b), for “controlled foreign company”
substitute  “CFC entity” .

18.3

In subsection (4), after the definition of “controlled foreign company tax
regime” insert—

      “ CFC entity ”, in relation to a member of a multinational group who is
subject to a controlled foreign company tax regime, means—         a
controlled foreign company in relation to that member,           a permanent
establishment of such a controlled foreign company, or           an entity
whose profits are treated, for the purposes of the regime, as the profits of
such a controlled foreign company;

.

18.4

In section 180 (blended CFC regimes)—

18.4.a

in subsection (2)(b), omit “blended”,

18.4.b

in subsection (4), omit “blended” in the third place it occurs,

18.4.c

in subsection (5)—

18.4.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “blended” in the second place it
occurs, and

18.4.c.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “blended”,

18.4.d

in subsection (6)(a), omit “blended”,

18.4.e

in subsection (8)—

18.4.e.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “blended”, and

18.4.e.ii

in paragraph (b), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), omit “blended”, and

18.4.f

omit subsection (10).

18.5

In Schedule 17 (index of defined expressions), in the table, at the
appropriate place insert—

    CFC entity section 179(4)

.

###### Blended CFC regimes

19

19.1

Section 180 (blended CFC regimes) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (5)(a), after “C” insert  “in relation to the CFC entity” .

19.3

In subsection (7)—

19.3.a

after “C” insert  “in relation to a CFC entity in which C has an ownership
interest” , and

19.3.b

for “F” substitute  “the entity” .

19.4

In subsection (8)(b) for sub-paragraph (ii) substitute—

19.4.ii

the result of Step 2 in section 132(1) for those entities were the aggregate
of their profits (and losses) before tax as shown in their financial accounts,

19.4.iia

the combined covered tax balance for those entities were the aggregate of the
taxes shown in their financial accounts,

.

###### Qualifying foreign tax credits (substitute loss carry forward assets)

20

20.1

Section 183 (substitute loss carry forward assets) is amended as follows.

20.2

In subsection (3), in paragraph (b), for “in respect of which the foreign tax
was calculated” substitute  “in the territory in which the member is located”
.

20.3

In subsection (4), after “qualifying” insert  “foreign” .

20.4

In subsection (5), after “section” insert “and in  section 183A “

20.5

After section 183 insert—

############ Alternative to section 183 where carry forward of credits not permitted

20.5.183A

20.5.183A.1

A special foreign tax asset of a member of a multinational group is to be used
to increase its covered tax balance in accordance with this section.

20.5.183A.2

Subsection (3) applies where—

20.5.183A.2.a

the territory in which a member of a multinational group is located requires
that domestic losses are offset against relevant foreign income before foreign
tax credits can be applied against tax on foreign income,

20.5.183A.2.b

the territory limits the extent to which foreign tax credits can be applied
against tax in a taxable period,

20.5.183A.2.c

the territory allows foreign tax credits to be used to a greater extent where
a domestic loss has been used to offset (in whole or in part) relevant foreign
income in a prior period, and

20.5.183A.2.d

the member has used a domestic loss to offset (in whole or in part) relevant
foreign income.

20.5.183A.3

Where this subsection applies, the member has a special foreign tax asset
arising in the accounting period in which the loss was used.

20.5.183A.4

The amount of that special foreign tax asset is the amount of the domestic
loss used to offset relevant foreign income multiplied by the lesser of—

20.5.183A.4.a

the nominal rate of tax in the member’s territory for the taxable period in
which it was used, and

20.5.183A.4.b

15%.

20.5.183A.5

Where a member of a multinational group has a special foreign tax asset that
arose in any previous accounting period, the member is to use that amount to
increase its covered tax balance.

20.5.183A.6

The amount of the special foreign tax asset that is to be used in an
accounting period is the lesser of—

20.5.183A.6.a

the amount of the asset, and

20.5.183A.6.b

so much of the amount of foreign tax credits credited against tax in the
taxable period corresponding to that accounting period as is capable of being
credited only as a result of the prior use of the domestic loss.

Any remainder continues to be a special foreign tax asset (and is available
for use in subsequent account periods where subsection (5) applies).

###### Substance based income exclusion: inter-jurisdictional employees and assets

21

21.1

In section 196 (eligible payroll costs)—

21.1.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (c) for “those activities are substantially
performed” substitute  “at least some of the work is carried out” , and

21.1.b

after that subsection insert—

21.1.b.1A

But where—

21.1.b.1A.a

an employee carries out the work in the period both in the territory in which
the member is located and outside that territory, and

21.1.b.1A.b

the proportion of the time spent carrying out the work in that territory in
the period is 50% or less,

the payroll costs in respect of the employee are to be multiplied by that
proportion to determine how much of those costs are eligible payroll costs.

21.2

In section 197 (eligible tangible asset amounts) after subsection (6) insert—

21.2.6A

Where an asset falling within paragraph (a), (c) or (d) of subsection (6) is
only located in the same territory as the member for part of the period—

21.2.6A.a

it is to be regarded for the purposes of this section as located in that
territory for the whole period, but

21.2.6A.b

where the proportion of the period in which the asset (or in the case of a
right, the asset to which the right relates) is located in the territory is
50% or less, the carrying values for the purposes of subsection (1)(a) and (b)
are to be multiplied by that proportion.

###### Substance based income exclusion: inclusion of payroll costs and assets voluntary

22

22.1

In section 196, in subsection (1)—

22.1.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (c), and

22.1.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

, and,

22.1.b.e

the filing member chooses to include those costs in calculating the substance
based income exclusion for the period.

22.2

In section 197, in subsection (5)—

22.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “it is”,

22.2.b

in paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “it is” ,

22.2.c

omit the “and” after that paragraph,

22.2.d

in paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “it is” , and

22.2.e

at the end of that paragraph insert

and,

22.2.e.c

the filing member chooses to include the asset in calculating the substance
based income exclusion for the period.

###### Substance based income exclusion: impairment losses

23

In section 197(4)—

23.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (b), and

23.b

after paragraph (c) insert—

23.b.d

any impairment loss, and

23.b.e

so much of the reversal of a previous impairment loss as does not cause the
carrying value to exceed the value it would have been had the impairment loss
not been recognised,

.

###### Substance based income exclusion: dual use assets

24

In section 197, after subsection (7) insert—

24.7A

Where part of an asset comprising property is held by a member of a
multinational group for lease, but another part of that property is retained
for use by the member—

24.7A.a

the parts are to be treated as separate assets for the purposes of this
section and section 197A, and

24.7A.b

the carrying value of the asset is to be allocated between the separate parts
on a just and reasonable basis.

###### Substance based income exclusion: leases

25

25.1

In section 195 (calculation of substance based income exclusion), after
subsection (7) insert—

25.1.7A

Section 197A sets out the treatment of operating leases.

25.2

After section 197 insert—

############ Operating leases

25.2.197A

25.2.197A.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

25.2.197A.1.a

a member of a multinational group holds property located in the same territory
as the member in an accounting period,

25.2.197A.1.b

that property is held for lease by the member, and

25.2.197A.1.c

the lease is accounted for in the underlying profits accounts of the member as
an operating lease for that period.

25.2.197A.2

The operating lease is to be regarded as an eligible tangible asset of the
member for that period (despite the exclusion in section 197(7)(a)).

25.2.197A.3

But where the property is not a short-term rental asset for that period, any
carrying value of the operating lease recorded at the start or the end of the
period is to be reduced by the right-of-use amount for the property at that
time for the purposes of carrying out the calculation in section 197(1).

25.2.197A.4

In a case where the lessee is a member of the same multinational group as the
lessor, the right-of-use amount in relation to the property at the start or
the end of the period is the carrying value of the lessee’s right-of-use asset
in relation to the property recorded at that time.

25.2.197A.5

Where the lessee is not a member of the same multinational group as the
lessor, the right-of-use amount in relation to the property at the start or
end of the period is the undiscounted value of any outstanding payments under
the lease at that time.

25.2.197A.6

In determining the value of those outstanding payments—

25.2.197A.6.a

apply the accounting standard used in determining the underlying profits of
the member,

25.2.197A.6.b

include the value of any outstanding payments that would be due under any
extension to the lease that would fall to be accounted for in accordance with
that standard.

25.2.197A.7

For the purposes of this section, property held for lease is a short-term
rental asset in an accounting period if—

25.2.197A.7.a

the property was leased regularly during that period to different lessees, and

25.2.197A.7.b

the average length of the periods for which it was leased does not exceed 30
days.

###### Substance based income exclusion: power to make further provision

26

After section 198 insert—

########## Power to make provision about treatment of payroll costs and assets

26.198A

26.198A.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about the treatment of payroll
costs and tangible assets in specified circumstances.

26.198A.2

Regulations may, in particular, provide that in determining the substance
based income exclusion for a territory—

26.198A.2.a

specified eligible tangible assets or eligible payroll costs are to be treated
as having a different value;

26.198A.2.b

specified eligible tangible assets or eligible payroll costs are to be
attributed to a different member of a multinational group or to a different
territory;

26.198A.2.c

specified eligible tangible assets or eligible payroll costs are to be
excluded from that determination;

26.198A.2.d

specified assets that are not eligible tangible assets are to be treated as
eligible tangible assets;

26.198A.2.e

specified costs that are not eligible payroll costs are to be treated as
eligible payroll costs.

26.198A.3

In this section “ specified ” means specified or described in regulations.

###### Transfer of assets or liabilities to a member of a multinational group

27

In section 211 (transfer of assets or liabilities to a member of a
multinational group)—

27.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

27.a.1

Subsection  (1A)  applies where there has been a transfer of assets or
liabilities to a member of a multinational group and—

27.a.1.a

the transfer forms part of a qualifying reorganisation (see section 212), or

27.a.1.b

the transferor is a member of the group and—

27.a.1.b.i

the transferee is located in the same territory as the transferor,

27.a.1.b.ii

the transferee and transferor are included in the same tax consolidation group
in that territory (within the meaning of section 164(5)), and

27.a.1.b.iii

an election under section 164 (election to exclude intra-group transactions)
has effect in relation to those members at the time of the transfer.

27.a.1A

The value of the assets or liabilities is, for the purpose of determining the
adjusted profits of the member, the carrying value of the assets or
liabilities in the hands of the transferor immediately before the transfer.

27.a.1B

Subsection  (1C)  applies where there has been a transfer of assets or
liabilities to a member of a multinational group and subsection  (1A)  does
not apply.

27.a.1C

The value of the assets or liabilities is, for the purpose of determining the
adjusted profits of the member, the carrying value of the assets or
liabilities immediately after the transfer as determined under the accounting
standard used in determining the underlying profits of the member for the
purposes of this Part and subject to the adjustments to those profits made in
accordance with Chapter 4.

, and

27.b

in subsection (2)(a), for “subsection (1)(b) applies” substitute  “subsection
(1C)  applies in relation” .

###### Investment entity tax transparency election

28

In section 213 (investment entity tax transparency election), after subsection
(6) insert—

28.6A

Where, ignoring the election, profits and amounts of qualifying tax expense
would be allocated to M in accordance with sections 168 and 178 to 181, those
profits and amounts are to be allocated—

28.6A.a

first to M, and then

28.6A.b

to O in proportion to the direct ownership interests O is treated as having in
M.

###### Meaning of country-by-country report

29

29.1

After section 251 insert—

############ Meaning of country-by-country report

29.1.251A

29.1.251A.1

In this Part “ country-by-country report ” means a country-by-country report
in respect of a multinational group that is prepared and filed in accordance
with legislation implementing the OECD’s guidance on country-by-country
reporting.

29.1.251A.2

But where the legislation of a territory permits the preparation and filing of
a partial country-by country report, such a partial report is not to be
regarded as country-by-country report for the purposes of this Part.

29.1.251A.3

Reference to a country-by-country report in respect of a multinational group
that is a multi-parent group is to a report in respect of all of the
constituent groups.

29.1.251A.4

“ The OECD’s guidance on country-by-country reporting ” means the guidance on
country-by-country reporting contained in the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (“ OECD ”) Guidance on Transfer Pricing
Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting, published in 2014, as
modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time.

29.2

In Schedule 16 (transitional provision), in paragraph 3, for sub-paragraphs
(7) and (8) substitute—

29.2.7

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule, a country-by-country report in
relation to a territory is “qualifying” if the information relating to the
territory is prepared on the basis of qualified financial statements of the
multinational group (see paragraph 4).

29.2.8

Where there is no requirement under the law of any territory for a country-by-
country report to be prepared and filed in respect of a multinational group,
the filling member may include, in the information return in which the
election is made, the information that would have been in such a report—

29.2.8.a

prepared in accordance with legislation implementing the OECD’s guidance on
country-by-country reporting under the law of the territory of the ultimate
parent, or

29.2.8.b

where there is no such legislation, prepared in accordance with that guidance.

29.2.9

Where such information has been included in that information return, that
information is to be treated as if it were a country-by-country report in
relation to the territory for the purposes of this Chapter (and where that
information complies with sub-paragraph (7), the condition in sub-paragraph
(2)(b) is to be treated as met).

29.3

In section 276(b)(i) (application of transitional provision for domestic top-
up tax purposes), for “and (8)” substitute  “to (9)” .

###### Joint ventures

30

In section 227 (application of Part to joint venture groups), in subsection
(2) for “the multinational group” substitute  “each multinational group” .

###### Insurance investment entities

31

31.1

Section 236 (investment funds and investment entities) is amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (2)—

31.2.a

omit paragraph (b),

31.2.b

for paragraph (c) substitute—

31.2.b.c

the income or gains the entity is designed to generate are intended to offset
liabilities under insurance or annuity contracts;

, and

31.2.c

for paragraph (e) substitute—

31.2.c.e

regulated entities hold 100% of the ownership interests in it (see section 244
for how to calculate this).

31.3

After that subsection insert—

31.3.2A

An entity is a regulated entity if—

31.3.2A.a

the entity is subject to a regulatory regime in the territory in which it is
established or managed, and

31.3.2A.b

that regime is specific to persons engaged in the business of entering into
insurance or annuity contracts or of performing activities ancillary to such
business.

###### Location of entities

32

32.1

In section 239(6)—

32.1.a

in paragraph (c), omit “(3) or”, and

32.1.b

in the words after paragraph (d), for “and 126” substitute  “, 128 and 129” .

32.2

In section 240 (location of flow-through entities), for subsection (1)
substitute—

32.2.1

Where a flow-through entity would be a responsible member of a multinational
group if the entity were located in the territory in which it is created, it
is located in that territory.

###### Currency

33

33.1

For section 254 (use of currency) substitute—

############ Use of currency

33.1.254

33.1.254.1

Calculations under this Part in relation to a multinational group, or any
member of such a group, are to be carried out in the currency of the
consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent (“the CFS currency”).

33.1.254.2

Where it is necessary to convert an amount into the CFS currency, that
conversion is to be made in accordance with the authorised accounting
standard—

33.1.254.2.a

that was used in preparing the consolidated financial statements of the
ultimate parent, or

33.1.254.2.b

where no such statements were prepared, that is used as the basis for the
statements that would have been prepared.

33.1.254.3

For the purpose of comparing an amount to a figure expressed in this Part in
euros, the amount is to be converted to euros for that purpose (from the CFS
currency) by reference to the average exchange rate for the month of December
that preceded the beginning of the accounting period to which the amount
relates.

33.1.254.4

Where the European Central Bank publishes exchange rates for the CFS currency,
use those rates for the purposes of the conversion under subsection (3) and
any conversion under step 4 in section 123 (amount charged by reference to
top-up amounts).

33.1.254.5

Otherwise—

33.1.254.5.a

where the Bank of England publishes exchange rates for the CFS currency, use
those rates for the purposes of that conversion, or

33.1.254.5.b

where the Bank of England does not publish exchange rates for that currency,
use such a rate as appears, on a just and reasonable basis, to reflect the
average exchange rate for the period in question.

33.2

In section 123 (amount charged by reference to “top-up amounts”), for Step 4
substitute—

      Step 4       Convert the result of Step 3 (which in accordance with
section 254 will be expressed in the CFS currency) to sterling using the
average exchange rate for the accounting period (if the CFS currency is not
sterling).

###### Application of Pillar Two rules to members of a group

34

34.1

In section 255 (meaning of Pillar Two rules)—

34.1.a

after subsection (2) insert—

34.1.a.2A

Pillar Two rules apply to a member of a multinational group (“the relevant
member”) in an accounting period if conditions A, B and C are met.

,

34.1.b

in subsection (3)—

34.1.b.i

for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “Condition A is met if—” ,

34.1.b.ii

in paragraph (a), after “multinational group” insert  “for the accounting
period” , and

34.1.b.iii

in paragraph (b), after “multinational group” insert  “for the accounting
period” , and

34.1.c

after that subsection insert—

34.1.c.4

Condition B is that—

34.1.c.4.a

the ultimate parent is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax for the accounting period
and is not located in the same territory as the relevant member,

34.1.c.4.b

an intermediate parent member of the group is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax
for the accounting period, is not located in the same territory as the
relevant member and has an ownership interest in—

34.1.c.4.b.i

the relevant member, or

34.1.c.4.b.ii

a member of the group located in the same territory as the relevant member, or

34.1.c.4.c

any member of the group is located in a territory in which a qualifying
undertaxed profits tax is in force for the accounting period.

34.1.c.5

Condition C is that no transitional safe harbour election applies to the
relevant member for that period.

34.1.c.6

For the purposes of this Part “ transitional safe harbour election ” means—

34.1.c.6.a

an election under paragraph 3(1) (transitional safe harbour), or

34.1.c.6.b

an election corresponding to that election for the purposes of a tax imposed
by a Pillar Two territory that is equivalent to multinational top-up tax so
far as it relates to top-up tax under the IIR (within the meaning of the
Pillar Two rules).

34.2

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 16 (intra-group transfers before entry into
regime)—

34.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for paragraph (b) substitute—

34.2.a.b

the Pillar Two rules do not apply to the transferor for the accounting period
in which the transfer takes place (but in determining this, section 255(4) has
effect as if sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) were omitted),

34.2.a.ba

a qualifying domestic top-up tax does not apply in relation to the transferor
for that period, and

,

34.2.b

in sub-paragraph (4)(b)—

34.2.b.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “which” insert  “the Pillar Two
rules apply to the transferee.” , and

34.2.b.ii

omit sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii),

34.2.c

in sub-paragraph (6), in paragraph (a) of Step 2, for paragraph (a)
substitute—

34.2.c.a

the ultimate parent had been located in the United Kingdom and the accounting
period commenced on or after 31 December 2023, and

, and

34.2.d

in sub-paragraph (11)—

34.2.d.i

the words from ““a transfer” to the end become paragraph (a), and

34.2.d.ii

after that paragraph insert—

34.2.d.ii.b

a qualifying domestic top-up tax is not to be taken as applying to a member of
a multinational group if provision for a QDMTT Safe Harbour (within the
meaning of the Pillar Two rules) applies to it.

34.3

In paragraph 3 of that Schedule—

34.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(c)(ii), for “applied to members” substitute  “would,
ignoring any transitional safe harbour election, have applied to any member” ,
and

34.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (4).

###### Qualifying domestic top-up tax not treated as accruing

35

35.1

After section 256 insert—

############ Qualifying domestic top-up tax treated as not accruing where contested etc

35.1.256A

35.1.256A.1

Subsection  (2)  applies for the purposes of sections 194(2) to (7), 203(3) to
(7) and 206(4) to (8) (application of QDT credits in determination of top-up
amounts).

35.1.256A.2

An amount of qualifying domestic tax accruing to a member of a multinational
group is to be treated as not accruing to the member where the enforceability
of the amount is in question.

35.1.256A.3

For the purposes of this section, the enforceability of an amount of
qualifying domestic top-up tax accruing to a member of a multinational group
is in question if—

35.1.256A.3.a

the member disputes its enforceability on any of the grounds set out in
subsection (4) , or

35.1.256A.3.b

the tax authority of the territory in which the qualifying domestic top-up tax
is imposed considers the amount unenforceable on the basis of any of those
grounds.

35.1.256A.4

Those grounds are that—

35.1.256A.4.a

the amount is unenforceable on constitutional grounds or as a result of other
superior law applying in the territory in which the qualifying domestic top-up
tax is imposed, or

35.1.256A.4.b

the amount is unenforceable as a result of a specific agreement with the
government of that territory as to the tax liability of the member or the
group.

35.1.256A.5

Subsection  (2)  ceases to apply where the enforceability of an amount of
qualifying domestic top-up tax ceases to be in question.

35.1.256A.6

Where the enforceability of an amount of qualifying domestic top-up tax was in
question, it ceases to be in question where—

35.1.256A.6.a

the amount has been paid, and

35.1.256A.6.b

the enforceability of the amount may no longer be disputed as a result of—

35.1.256A.6.b.i

a settlement,

35.1.256A.6.b.ii

the time for any appeal having passed and there being no reasonable prospect
of the time being extended, or

35.1.256A.6.b.iii

the exhaustion of any rights to appeal.

35.2

In section 194 (total top-up amount for a territory), in subsection (3), for
“section 256” substitute  “sections 256 and 256A” .

###### Consistency with Pillar Two rules

36

In section 262 (power to amend to ensure consistency with Pillar Two) after
subsection (1) insert—

36.1A

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection (1) includes
provision designed to secure the effective implementation of the Pillar Two
rules including—

36.1A.a

provision to ensure consistency with commentaries or guidance published by the
OECD that has effect from a time before the commentary or guidance was
published;

36.1A.b

provision that the Treasury consider necessary to secure the effective
operation of multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax (see Part 4)
where—

36.1A.b.i

the provision does not, at the time of making it, reflect the Pillar Two
rules, but

36.1A.b.ii

it is reasonable for the Treasury to believe that changes will be made to the
rules that are consistent with, or are similar to, the provision.

36.1B

Provision made by regulations under subsection (1) may not have effect—

36.1B.a

in the case of provision falling within subsection (1A)(a), in relation to
accounting periods ending before the commentary or guidance was published, or

36.1B.b

in the case of any other provision, in relation to accounting periods ending
before the regulations are made.

36.1C

Provision that has effect in relation to accounting periods that begin before
the regulations are made may only be made if the Treasury consider that the
provision is generally beneficial to—

36.1C.a

persons affected by the implementation of the Pillar Two rules, or

36.1C.b

persons affected by the provision.

36.1D

The reference in subsection (1C) to provision being generally beneficial
includes the provision being beneficial by reference to it—

36.1D.a

simplifying, or reducing the costs of, compliance with—

36.1D.a.i

multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax, or

36.1D.a.ii

taxes imposed under the law of a territory outside the United Kingdom that
correspond to multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax;

36.1D.b

generally (but not necessarily in every case) resulting in a reduction or
elimination of a liability to—

36.1D.b.i

multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax, or

36.1D.b.ii

taxes imposed under the law of a territory outside the United Kingdom that
correspond to multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax.

###### Overpaid tax

37

37.1

Schedule 14 is amended as follows.

37.2

In paragraph 51 (claims in relation to overpaid tax)—

37.2.a

in sub-paragraph (5)—

37.2.a.i

omit the words from “otherwise” to “paragraph,”, and

37.2.a.ii

after “due” insert  “otherwise than—

37.2.a.ii.a

pursuant to a claim under this paragraph, or

37.2.a.ii.b

in accordance with another provision of this Schedule.

, and

37.2.b

omit sub-paragraphs (6) and (7).

37.3

After paragraph 33 insert—

37.3.33A

37.3.33A.1

Where a person has paid an amount that has been paid by way of multinational
top-up tax but the amount is not due, the amount incurs interest at the rate
provided for in regulations made under section 178 of FA 1989 from the later
of—

37.3.33A.1.a

the day after the latest day (under paragraph 32) by which the amount paid
would have been required to be paid as multinational top-up tax if it were
due, and

37.3.33A.1.b

the day on which the amount was paid.

37.3.33A.2

See paragraph 51 for provision about making claims for the repayment of an
amount that is not tax that was due (but see also paragraph 52 which, for
example, prevents such a claim being made where an amendment to an assessment
can be, or could have been, made).

###### Intragroup transfers before entry into regime

38

38.1

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 16 (intra-group transfers before entry into regime) is
amended as follows.

38.2

In sub-paragraph (3)(b), after “limited to” insert  “the lesser of the cap
amount and the sum of—

38.2.i

the value of deferred tax assets that arose in relation to the assets before
their transfer, and

38.2.ii



.

38.3

After that sub-paragraph insert—

38.3.3A

For the purposes of determining the value of a deferred tax asset under sub-
paragraph (3)(b)(i)—

38.3.3A.a

if the rate of tax in relation to that asset is greater than 15%, the value is
to be adjusted so that it reflects the value it would be if the rate had been
15%, and

38.3.3A.b

exclude the impact of any valuation adjustments or accounting recognition
adjustments.

38.4

In sub-paragraph (5)(b), for “is” substitute  “, and the value of deferred tax
assets that arose in relation to the assets before their transfer, are” .

38.5

For sub-paragraph (7) substitute—

38.5.7

In determining the tax expense of the transferor in relation to the transfer
of the assets—

38.5.7.a

where any loss arising in the accounting period in which the transfer took
place is offset against any taxable gain arising on the transfer, ignore that
offsetting, and

38.5.7.b

exclude the impact of any valuation adjustments or accounting recognition
adjustments.

38.6

In sub-paragraph (9)—

38.6.a

for “, ignoring sub-paragraph (7),” substitute  “the sum of” ,

38.6.b

for “in relation to the transfer of assets would exceed” substitute  “and the
value of deferred tax assets that arose in relation to the assets before their
transfer is greater than” , and

38.6.c

omit “in relation to it”.

38.7

In sub-paragraph (11), for “substantially the same economic effect as”
substitute  “a similar effect for accounting purposes to” .

38.8

After sub-paragraph (11) insert—

38.8.12

Where assets are transferred from one member of a multinational group to
another member of that group as a result of a series of transfers that—

38.8.12.a

fall within sub-paragraph (1), but

38.8.12.b

do not fall within sub-paragraph (2),

that series is to be treated as a single transfer of assets that falls within
sub-paragraph (1).

38.8.13

This paragraph applies to that single transfer as if—

38.8.13.a

the reference to the transferor in sub-paragraph (3)(a) were to the transferor
in relation to the first transfer in the series,

38.8.13.b

the references in sub-paragraph (3)(b) to the cap amount, the value of
deferred tax assets that arose in relation to the assets before their transfer
and the tax paid amount were to the aggregate of each such amount or value as
determined for the purpose of each transfer that makes up the series,

38.8.13.c

the reference to the date of the transfer in sub-paragraph (4)(a) were to the
date of the last transfer in the series, and

38.8.13.d

the references to the transferee in sub-paragraph (4)(b) were to the
transferee in relation to the last transfer in the series.

###### Transitional safe harbour

39

39.1

Part 2 of Schedule 16 (transitional safe harbour) is amended as follows.

39.2

In paragraph 3, for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

39.2.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make a transitional safe
harbour election for an accounting period in respect of a territory.

39.2.1A

The effect of the election is that all of the standard members of the group
located in the territory are to be treated as not having top-up amounts or
additional top-up amounts for the purpose of determining the liability of any
member of the group to multinational top-up tax.

39.3

In paragraph 4—

39.3.a

in sub-paragraph (3)—

39.3.a.i

omit the “and” after paragraph (b), and

39.3.a.ii

after paragraph (c) insert

, and

39.3.a.ii.d

qualified substance based income amount (see paragraph 9(2)).

, and

39.3.b

in sub-paragraph (5), in the words before paragraph (a), for “(c)” substitute
“(d)” .

39.4

In paragraph 6(6), for “if” substitute  “unless” .

###### Transitional reporting election

40

40.1

In Schedule 16 (transitional provision), at the end insert—

############ Transitional reporting election

############# Transitional reporting election

40.1.13

40.1.13.1

HMRC may publish a notice that provides for alternative requirements for the
information that must be contained in an information return in respect of
members of a multinational group to which an election under  sub-paragraph (3)
applies.

40.1.13.2

Where—

40.1.13.2.a

HMRC have published a notice under paragraph (1) containing alternative
requirements, and

40.1.13.2.b

an election under  sub-paragraph (3)  applies to members of a multinational
group for an accounting period,

paragraph 10 of Schedule 14 applies to the filing member of the group for that
period subject to the notice.

40.1.13.3

An election under this sub-paragraph—

40.1.13.3.a

is to be made in respect of all of the members of a multinational group in a
territory,

40.1.13.3.b

is to be made by the filing member of the group,

40.1.13.3.c

may only have effect in relation to an accounting period that begins on or
before 31 December 2028 and ends before 1 July 2030, and

40.1.13.3.d

may only be made if condition A, B or C is met.

40.1.13.4

Condition A is that none of the members in the territory have top-up amounts
or additional top-up amounts for the accounting period to which the election
is to apply.

40.1.13.5

Condition B is that—

40.1.13.5.a

there is only one responsible member responsible for all of the members in the
territory for the accounting period to which the election is to apply, and

40.1.13.5.b

the sum of amounts attributed under Chapter 7 of Part 3 to that responsible
member for that period in respect of those members’ top-up amounts and
additional top-up amounts is equal to the sum of the members’ top-up amount
and additional top-up amounts.

40.1.13.6

Condition C is that—

40.1.13.6.a

there is more than one responsible member responsible for the members of the
group in the territory for the accounting period to which the election is to
apply, and

40.1.13.6.b

each responsible member is responsible for every member of the group in the
territory and has the same inclusion ratio for each member it is responsible
for.

40.1.13.7

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
this paragraph.

40.2

In Schedule 15 (elections), in paragraph 2(1), after paragraph (j) insert—

40.2.k

paragraph 14 of Schedule 16;

.

###### Qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour

41

41.1

After Schedule 16 insert—

  Multinational top-up tax: safe harbours

Section 260

############## Qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour

############### Qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election

################ Election for qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour

41.1.1

41.1.1.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make a qualifying domestic top-
up tax safe harbour election for an accounting period in respect of a
territory.

41.1.1.2

The effect of the election is that all of the standard members of the group
located in the territory are to be treated as not having top-up amounts or
additional top-up amounts for the purpose of determining the liability of any
member of the group to multinational top-up tax.

41.1.1.3

An election may only be made for an accounting period if—

41.1.1.3.a

a qualifying domestic top-up tax applies in that territory for that period,

41.1.1.3.b

that tax is accredited for the purposes of the election (see  paragraph 2 ),
and

41.1.1.3.c

none of the disqualifying conditions in  paragraph 3  apply for that period.

41.1.1.4

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
this paragraph.

################ Accredited qualifying domestic top-up tax

41.1.2

A qualifying domestic top-up tax is accredited for the purposes of an election
under  paragraph 1  if that tax is specified as such in regulations made by
the Treasury.

################ Disqualifying conditions

41.1.3

41.1.3.1

Conditions A to D are disqualifying conditions for the purposes of  paragraph
1 (3) (c)  in relation to a multinational group and a territory.

41.1.3.2

Condition A is that—

41.1.3.2.a

the ultimate parent is located in the territory,

41.1.3.2.b

the ultimate parent is a flow-through entity, and

41.1.3.2.c

the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the territory—

41.1.3.2.c.i

does not generally impose a charge on the ultimate parent as a result of it
being a flow-through entity, and

41.1.3.2.c.ii

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on the ultimate parent
in circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

41.1.3.3

Condition B is that—

41.1.3.3.a

a responsible member of the group is located in the territory,

41.1.3.3.b

the member is not the ultimate parent of the group,

41.1.3.3.c

the member is a flow-through entity, and

41.1.3.3.d

the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the territory—

41.1.3.3.d.i

does not generally impose a charge on the member as a result of it being a
flow-through entity, and

41.1.3.3.d.ii

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on the member in
circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

41.1.3.4

Condition C is that—

41.1.3.4.a

the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the territory provides that it
does not apply to a multinational group in the initial phase of the group’s
international expansion,

41.1.3.4.b

that provision is not limited in application to circumstances where the
members of a multinational group in the territory are not subject to Pillar
Two rules, and

41.1.3.4.c

that provision applies to the group.

41.1.3.5

Condition D is that the enforceability of an amount of qualifying domestic
top-up tax accruing to a standard member of the group is in question.

41.1.3.6

Subsections  (3) ,  (4)  and  (6)  of section 256A (qualifying domestic top-up
tax treated as not accruing where contested) apply for the purpose of
determining whether the enforceability of an amount of qualifying domestic
top-up tax is in question.

############### Application to non-standard members of a multinational group

################ Application in the case of joint venture group

41.1.4

41.1.4.1

For the purpose of applying Chapter 1 of this Part of this Schedule to a joint
venture group (see section 227 which applies this Schedule generally, with
modifications, to joint venture groups), that Chapter has effect as if in
paragraph 3—

41.1.4.1.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “Conditions A to D” there were substituted
“Conditions A to E” ,

41.1.4.1.b

after sub-paragraph (6), there were inserted—

41.1.4.1.b.7

Condition E is that the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the
territory—

41.1.4.1.b.7.a

does not generally impose a charge on members of the group that are members of
a joint venture group, and

41.1.4.1.b.7.b

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on such members in
circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

41.1.4.2

For that purpose ignore section 227(1)(a) (reference to ultimate parent
treated as reference to joint venture parent).

41.1.4.3

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election in respect of joint
venture members of a joint venture group in a territory.

################ Application in the case of investment entities

41.1.5

41.1.5.1

Chapter 1 of this Part of this Schedule to applies to investment entities and
has effect for that purpose as if—

41.1.5.1.a

references to standard members of a multinational group were to members of the
group that are investment entities, and

41.1.5.1.b

in paragraph 3—

41.1.5.1.b.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “Conditions A to D” there were substituted
“Conditions A to E” ,

41.1.5.1.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (6), there were inserted—

41.1.5.1.b.ii.7

Condition E is that the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the
territory—

41.1.5.1.b.ii.7.a

does not generally impose a charge on members of the group that are investment
entities, and

41.1.5.1.b.ii.7.b

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on such members in
circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

41.1.5.2

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election in respect of members of
the group that are investment entities.

################ Application in the case of minority owned members

41.1.6

41.1.6.1

Chapter 1 of this Part of this Schedule to applies to minority owned members
of a multinational group and has effect for that purpose as if references to
standard members of a multinational group were to members of the group that
are minority owned members.

41.1.6.2

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election in respect of minority
owned members of the group.

41.2

In section 227 (application of Part to joint venture groups), in subsection
(1), in the words before paragraph (a), for “Schedule 16” substitute
“Schedules 16 and 16A” .

41.3

For section 260 (transitional provision) substitute—

############ Transitional provision and safe harbours

41.3.260

41.3.260.1

Schedule 16 contains transitional provision and provision about a general
transitional safe harbour.

41.3.260.2

Schedule 16A contains provision about other safe harbours.

41.4

In Schedule 15 (elections), in paragraph 2(1), after paragraph (k) (as
inserted by  paragraph 40 (2)  of this Schedule) insert—

41.4.l

paragraph 1 of Schedule 16A.

##### Domestic top-up tax

###### Securitisation entities

42

42.1

In section 267 (DTT excluded entities)—

42.1.a

after subsection (3) insert—

42.1.a.3A

A securitisation company that is not a member of a group for the purposes of
domestic top-up tax is a DTT excluded entity (and see section 267A).

42.1.b

in subsection (4)—

42.1.b.i

the words from ““qualifying” to the end become the first definition, and

42.1.b.ii

after that definition insert—

      “ securitisation company ” has the meaning it has in the Taxation of
Securitisation Companies Regulations 2006 (see regulation 4).

42.2

After section 267 insert—

############ Securitisation companies in a group treated as not consolidated

42.2.267A

42.2.267A.1

Subsection (2) applies to a securitisation company that is a member of a
group.

42.2.267A.2

The company is only to be regarded as a member of the group for the purposes
of applying Condition C in section 266 in relation to other members of the
group (revenue threshold for group).

42.2.267A.3

Otherwise, the company is to be treated as not being a member of any group for
the purposes of domestic top-up tax.

42.3

After section 272 insert—

############ Treatment of covered bond vehicles

42.3.272A

42.3.272A.1

This section applies where—

42.3.272A.1.a

a covered bond vehicle that is a member of a group would, ignoring this
section, have a top-up amount or an additional top-up amount for an accounting
period, and

42.3.272A.1.b

at least one of the other members of the group in that period—

42.3.272A.1.b.i

is located in the United Kingdom, and

42.3.272A.1.b.ii

is not a covered bond vehicle.

42.3.272A.2

For domestic purposes, section 193 (calculation of top-up amounts) has effect
for the purpose of determining the top-up amounts (and additional top-up
amounts) of—

42.3.272A.2.a

the covered bond vehicle, and

42.3.272A.2.b

the other members of the group that are located in the United Kingdom,

as if the adjusted profits of the covered bond vehicle were nil.

42.3.272A.3

But subsection (4) applies if none of the members of the group that are
located in the United Kingdom, and are not covered bond vehicles, have made a
profit for that period (and accordingly will not, ignoring that subsection,
have top-up amounts).

42.3.272A.4

Each of those members has a top-up amount equal to the amount given by
dividing—

42.3.272A.4.a

the sum of the top-up amounts and additional top-up amounts that, ignoring
subsection (2), each covered bond vehicle located in the United Kingdom would
otherwise have, by

42.3.272A.4.b

the number of those members.

42.3.272A.5

For the purposes of this section “ covered bond vehicle ” has the meaning
given by paragraph 53(7) of Schedule 19 to FA 2011.

###### Investment entities

43

43.1

In section 267—

43.1.a

in subsection (2), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or  (3B) (b) ” , and

43.1.b

after subsection (3A) (as inserted by  paragraph 42 ) insert—

43.1.b.3B

An investment entity is a DTT excluded entity if—

43.1.b.3B.a

it is not a member of a group, or

43.1.b.3B.b

it is a member of group that is comprised only of members located in the
United Kingdom.

43.1.b.3C

An investment entity that is a member of a group that is not comprised only of
members located in the United Kingdom—

43.1.b.3C.a

is not to be regarded as a qualifying entity, but

43.1.b.3C.b

top-up amounts of that entity are to be determined under sections 220 to 224
(see also section 272(8)(e) which has the effect of attributing those amounts
to standard members of the group that are qualifying entities and are located
in the same territory as the investment entity).

43.1.b.3D

An investment entity that falls within subsection (3C) is not to be regarded
as a member of any group for any purpose other than for the purposes of—

43.1.b.3D.a

determining the top-up amounts of that entity under those sections,

43.1.b.3D.b

applying Condition C in section 266 in relation to other members of the group
(revenue threshold for group), and

43.1.b.3D.c

subsections (8)(e)  (9) ,  (10)  and  (11)  of section 272.

43.2

In consequence of the amendments made by sub-paragraph  (1) , in section
266(1) (qualifying entities) omit “or an investment entity”.

43.3

In section 272 (determining top-up amounts of entity that is a member of a
group)—

43.3.a

in subsection (8), in paragraph (e)—

43.3.a.i

after “effect” insert  “in relation to a qualifying entity that is a standard
member of a group”  and

43.3.a.ii

after “of” insert  “qualifying” , and

43.3.b

after that subsection insert—

43.3.b.9

An investment entity is a qualifying investment entity in relation to a
qualifying entity if it is

43.3.b.9.a

a member of the same group as the qualifying entity, and

43.3.b.9.b

located in United Kingdom.

43.3.b.10

Subsection  (11)  applies to qualifying entities that are standard members of
a group for an accounting period where—

43.3.b.10.a

the total top-up amount referred to in section 193 for that period is greater
than nil as a result of the modification of that section set out in subsection
(8)(e), and

43.3.b.10.b

none of those members have made a profit for that period (and accordingly will
not, ignoring subsection  (11) , have top-up amounts).

43.3.b.11

Where this subsection applies, each of those members has a top-up amount (for
the purposes of domestic top-up tax) equal to the total top-up amount divided
by the number of qualifying entities that are standard members of the group.

###### Treatment of qualifying refundable tax credits

44

44.1

In section 272(8), after paragraph (d) insert—

44.1.da

in section 182(2)(e), after “credits”, in the first place it occurs, there
were inserted  “other than qualifying refundable tax credits” ;

.

44.2

In section 273(3) (determining top-up amounts of entity that is not a member
of a group), after paragraph (b) insert—

44.2.ba

in section 182(2)(e), after “credits”, in the first place it occurs, there
were inserted  “other than qualifying refundable tax credits” ;

.

###### Effect of becoming subject to Pillar Two rules

45

45.1

After section 273 insert—

############ References to Pillar Two rules

45.1.273A

45.1.273A.1

The provisions mentioned in subsection (2) apply to a qualifying entity, for
domestic or domestic entity purposes, as if the references to the first
accounting period for which the Pillar Two rules apply were to the first
accounting period for which the entity is a qualifying entity.

45.1.273A.2

Those provisions are—

45.1.273A.2.a

section 185;

45.1.273A.2.b

section 187;

45.1.273A.2.d

sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph 2 of Schedule 16 (but see also section
276(c)(iii) which omits that paragraph in the case of a qualifying entity that
is not a member of a group).

############ Effect of becoming subject to Pillar Two rules

45.1.273B

45.1.273B.1

This section applies where the Pillar Two rules did not apply to a qualifying
entity for one or more accounting periods (each a “pre-Pillar Two period”).

45.1.273B.2

Where—

45.1.273B.2.a

the entity has a recaptured deferred tax liability arising as a result of
section 184 (recaptured deferred tax liabilities),

45.1.273B.2.b

the initial period, in relation to that liability, is a pre-Pillar Two period,
and

45.1.273B.2.c

the first accounting period in which the Pillar Two rules apply to the entity
is earlier than the sixth accounting period after the initial period,

section 184(2) (recalculation in initial period taking account of recaptured
deferred tax liability) does not apply in relation to that recaptured deferred
tax liability.

45.1.273B.3

Where an election under section 187 (election for losses to be treated as
special loss deferred tax assets) applied to the entity in a pre-Pillar Two
period—

45.1.273B.3.a

the election ceases to have effect for the first accounting period in which
the Pillar Two rules apply, and

45.1.273B.3.b

subsection (2)(b) of section 187 does not apply to prevent the making of an
election under section 187 that applies to the entity and that has effect for
that period, but

45.1.273B.3.c

no remaining amount of special loss deferred tax assets that arose in a pre-
Pillar Two period may be used in that first accounting period or any
subsequent accounting period.

45.1.273B.4

Subsection (5) or (6) (as the case may be) applies where—

45.1.273B.4.a

a deferred tax asset arises to the entity in a pre-Pillar Two period,

45.1.273B.4.b

section 185(7)—

45.1.273B.4.b.i

applies to that asset for the purposes of multinational top-up tax, or

45.1.273B.4.b.ii

would, ignoring subsection (5) below, apply to that asset for those purposes,
and

45.1.273B.4.c

the asset is reflected in a collective additional amount for the purposes of
domestic top-up tax.

45.1.273B.5

Where—

45.1.273B.5.a

an election has been made under section 205 (election to carry forward) in
relation to the collective additional amount,

45.1.273B.5.b

the subtraction required by subsection (2)(a) of that section has not occurred
in a pre-Pillar Two period,

the amount to be subtracted as a result of that subsection is to be reduced by
so much of that amount as reflects the asset.

45.1.273B.6

Otherwise, section 185(7) does not apply to the asset for the purposes of
multinational top-up tax to the extent it was reflected in a collective
additional amount for the purposes domestic top-up tax.

45.2

In section 276 (application of transitional provision)—

45.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

45.2.a.aa

where a qualifying member is a member of a group, for paragraph 3(2)(c) there
were substituted—

45.2.a.aa.c

the election has been made in respect of the territory for each preceding
accounting period that commenced on or after 31 December 2023—

45.2.a.aa.c.i

in which the Pillar Two rules would, ignoring any transitional safe harbour
election, have applied to any member of the group in the territory, and

45.2.a.aa.c.ii

in which any member of the group is a qualifying entity for the purposes of
domestic top-up tax,

,

, and

45.2.b

in paragraph (c), after sub-paragraph (iii) insert—

45.2.b.iiia

for paragraph 3(2)(c) there were substituted—

45.2.b.iiia.c

the election has been made in respect of the territory for each preceding
accounting period that commenced on or after 31 December 2023 in which the
member was a qualifying entity for the purposes of domestic top-up tax,

,

.

###### Dividends from protected cell companies

46

After section 273B (as inserted by  paragraph 45 ) insert—

########## Dividends from protected cell companies

46.273C

46.273C.1

This section applies to a dividend or other distribution made by a protected
cell company that is received or accrued by—

46.273C.1.a

a qualifying entity that is not a member of a group, or

46.273C.1.b

a member of a group that has no members located outside of the United Kingdom.

46.273C.2

A dividend or other distribution to which this section applies is to be
treated as an excluded dividend (see section 141) for domestic purposes and
domestic entity purposes.

###### Consistency with Pillar Two rules

47

47.1

In section 262(1) (power to amend to ensure consistency with Pillar Two)—

47.1.a

in paragraph (a), for “or of Schedule 14 to Schedule 16” substitute  “, Part 4
or any of Schedules 14 to 16A and 18” , and

47.1.b

in paragraph (b), for “or Schedule 14 to Schedule 17” substitute  “, Part 4 or
any of Schedules 14 to 18” .

47.2

In consequence of the amendments made by sub-paragraph (1), omit section 274
(application of section 262).

##### Minor and technical changes

###### Chapter 2 of Part 3 (qualifying multinational groups and their members)

48

48.1

In section 127(12) (excluded entities) for “pensions service” substitute
“pension services” .

48.2

In section 128 (responsible members)—

48.2.a

in subsection (2)—

48.2.a.i

for “its members” substitute  “the members of the group” , and

48.2.a.ii

for “it” substitute  “the ultimate parent” , and

48.2.b

in subsection (7)—

48.2.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “tax” insert  “for an accounting
period” ,

48.2.b.ii

in paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “the period commences on or after
31 December 2023 and” , and

48.2.b.iii

in paragraph (b), in sub-paragraph (i), after “force” insert  “for the period”
.

48.3

In section 130 (change in composition of multinational group), in subsection
(5)—

48.3.a

after “in” insert  “all, or substantially all, of the members of” , and

48.3.b

after “becoming” insert  “members of” .

###### Chapter 3 of Part 3 (effective tax rate)

49

49.1

In section 132(2) (effective tax rate), in the words after paragraph (c) for
“164” substitute  “174” .

###### Chapter 4 of Part 3 (calculation of adjusted profits)

50

50.1

In section 138(1) (profits adjusted to be before tax), omit “its”.

50.2

In section 140 (profits adjusted to be profits before certain purchase
accounting adjustments)—

50.2.a

in subsection (2), for “shares” substitute  “ownership interests” , and

50.2.b

in subsection (3)—

50.2.b.i

for “shares” substitute  “ownership interests” , and

50.2.b.ii

for the words from “it” to the end substitute  “the members of the group do
not have sufficient records to identify the adjustment made with reasonable
accuracy.”

50.3

In section 142 (excluded equity gain or loss), in subsection (2)(b) omit
“other than an interest to which subsection (3) applies,”.

50.4

In section 149 (arm’s length requirement for certain transactions), in
subsection (6) for “the member” substitute  “both that member and the other
member” .

50.5

In section 150 (tax treatment of transactions between members of a
multinational group)—

50.5.a

in subsection (6)—

50.5.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “in the territory in which the member is located”
substitute  “that applies to the member” , and

50.5.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “that territory” substitute  “the territory in which the
member is located” , and

50.5.b

after that subsection insert—

50.5.b.6A

But—

50.5.b.6A.a

for the purposes of subsection (6)(b), ignore any accounting period in which
there was no standard member of the group in that territory to which the
Pillar Two rules applied, and

50.5.b.6A.b

a standard member of a multinational group is always to be regarded as a high
tax member for an accounting period if a transitional safe harbour election
applies to it for that period.

50.6

In section 165 (election to have excluded equity gains and losses included),
in subsection (2)—

50.6.a

after the words before paragraph (a) insert—

50.6.a.a

either—

,

50.6.b

the existing paragraphs (a) and (b) become sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of the
paragraph (a) inserted above, and

50.6.c

at the end of sub-paragraph (ii) insert

, and

50.6.c.b

in the case of gains or losses falling within section 142(2)(b), the gains or
losses are not in respect of an interest to which section 142(3) applies.

###### Chapter 5 of Part 3 (covered tax balance)

51

51.1

In section 185(2)(a) (inclusion of existing deferred tax assets and
liabilities on entry into regime), after “asset” insert  “or liability” .

51.2

In section 186 (deferred tax assets recorded at less than minimum rate)—

51.2.a

for subsection (2) substitute—

51.2.a.2

But this section only applies in relation to a deferred tax asset of the
member falling within subsection (1) if the filing member accounts for all
such assets of the member in accordance with this section in an information
return submitted to HMRC or a qualifying authority (see paragraph 10(5) of
Schedule 14).

, and

51.2.b

omit subsection (8).

51.3

In section 187 (election for losses to be treated as special loss deferred tax
assets), in subsection (6)—

51.3.a

for paragraph (b) substitute—

51.3.a.b

the result of Step 2 in section 132(1) multiplied by 15%.

, and

51.3.b

in the words after paragraph (b), for “where subsection (5) applies”
substitute  “in which the election has effect” .

###### Chapter 6 of Part 3 (calculation of top-up amounts)

52

52.1

In section 194 (total top-up amount for a territory), in subsection (3), for
“in”, in the third place it occurs, substitute  “for” .

52.2

In section 196 (eligible payroll costs), in subsection (3), for ““Employee””
substitute  “In this section “employee”” .

52.3

In section 197 (eligible tangible asset amount)—

52.3.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

52.3.a.1

To determine the eligible tangible asset amount of a member of a multinational
group for an accounting period—

52.3.a.1.a

add together—

52.3.a.1.a.i

the sum of the recorded carrying values of each eligible tangible asset held
by the member at the start of the period, and

52.3.a.1.a.ii

the sum of the recorded carrying values of each eligible tangible asset held
by the member at the end of the period, and

52.3.a.1.b

divide the result of  paragraph (a)  by 2.

, and

52.3.b

omit subsection (2).

###### Chapter 7 of Part 3 (allocating top-up amounts)

53

53.1

Section 201 (inclusion ratio) is amended as follows.

53.2

In subsection (1), in Step 2, after “held by” insert  “individuals and” .

53.3

In subsection (2)—

53.3.a

after “held by” insert  “individuals and” , and

53.3.b

after “such” insert  “individuals and” .

###### Chapter 8 of Part 3 (further adjustments)

54

54.1

In section 205 (election to carry forward and reduce collective additional
amount)—

54.1.a

in subsection (1), after “amount” insert  “under section 203” ,

54.1.b

in subsection (2)(a)—

54.1.b.i

after “amount”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “under section 203” ,
and

54.1.b.ii

for “those members” substitute  “the members of the group in the relevant
territory” ,

54.1.c

in subsection (2)(b), after “amount”, in the first place it occurs, insert
“under section 203” , and

54.1.d

in subsection (3), after “amount”, in the second place it occurs, insert
“under section 203” .

54.2

In section 217(8) (post filing adjustments of covered taxes), in paragraph
(a), at the beginning insert  “the reduction of the covered tax balance of the
member for the prior period resulting from” .

###### Chapter 9 of Part 3 (special provision for investment entities etc)

55

55.1

In section 220(3) (top-up amount of investment entity) for “section 33(2)”
substitute  “that Chapter” .

55.2

In section 221(4) (substance based income exclusion for investment entity),
for “Schedule 12” substitute  “Schedule 14” .

55.3

In section 229(3) (multi-parent groups), for “section 127(3)” substitute
“section 128(3)” .

###### Chapter 10 of Part 3 (definitions etc)

56

56.1

In section 231(1) (meaning of entity)—

56.1.a

after paragraph (a), insert  “or” ,

56.1.b

omit paragraphs (b) and (c), and

56.1.c

in paragraph (d)—

56.1.c.i

omit “other”, and

56.1.c.ii

after “the arrangement” insert  “(such as a partnership or trust)” .

56.2

In section 232(1)(a) (permanent establishments treated as entities), for “of
the main entity” substitute  “in which the main entity is located” .

56.3

In section 235(1)(b) (pension funds and pension services entities), at the
beginning insert  “it is” .

56.4

In section 244 (calculating percentage ownership interests of a class), in
subsection (2)(a), after “by” insert  “an individual or by” .

56.5

In section 245 (calculating percentage ownership interests: excluded
entities), in subsection (2), after “Where” insert  “an individual or” .

56.6

In section 246(1)(b)(ii) (calculating percentage direct and indirect ownership
interests) for “E” substitute  “F” .

56.7

In section 248 (exclusion of indirect interests held through ultimate parent),
after “entity” insert  “or individual” .

56.8

In section 249(2) (consolidated financial statements)—

56.8.a

for “an” substitute  “the” , and

56.8.b

after “standard” insert  “that is used as the basis for the statements that
would have been prepared” .

56.9

In section 252(3) (application to sovereign wealth funds), for “government”
substitute  “governmental” .

56.10

In section 253 (refundable imputation taxes)—

56.10.a

in subsection (1)(a)(i)—

56.10.b

for “in respect of a dividend made by the member and is” substitute  “as a
result of a dividend made by the member,” , and

56.10.c

in subsection (2)(b)—

56.10.c.i

in sub-paragraph (v), for the words from “, a resident pension fund” to the
end substitute  “or a resident pension fund” ,

56.10.c.ii

omit the “or” after that sub-paragraph, and

56.10.c.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

56.10.c.iii.va

a resident investment entity that is not a member of the group, or

.

56.11

In section 259 (other definitions), in subsection (1)—

56.11.a

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ deemed distribution ” has the meaning given by section 215(4)(c);

, and

56.11.b

in the definition of “tax treaty”, for “agreement for” substitute
“international agreement for, or provision of an international agreement
concerned with,” .

###### Part 4 (domestic top-up tax)

57

57.1

In section 271 (election to make one member of a group liable for amounts
charged)—

57.1.a

in subsection (1) for “responsible” substitute  “elected” ,

57.1.b

in subsection (2) for “responsible”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“elected” , and

57.1.c

in subsection (3) for “responsible” substitute  “elected” .

57.2

In section 272 (determining top-up amounts of entity that is a member of a
group), in subsection (8)(c)(i) for “after subsection (1) there were inserted”
substitute  “for subsection (1A) there were substituted” .

57.3

In section 273 (determining top-up amounts of entity that is not a member of a
group), in subsection (4)—

57.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “domestic” insert  “entity” ,

57.3.b

in paragraph (e), for “subsection (2)(c)” substitute  “subsection (3)(c)” ,

57.3.c

after paragraph (p), insert—

57.3.c.pa

in section 173 (covered taxes), subsection (1)(b);

.

###### Schedules 14 to 17

58

58.1

In Schedule 14 (administration)—

58.1.a

in paragraph 6 (registration), after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

58.1.a.1A

The reference to a multinational group in sub-paragraph (1) does not include a
group exclusively comprised of excluded entities (who are only regarded as
members of the group for certain purposes in accordance with section 127(2)).

58.1.b

in paragraph 34 (group payment notices)—

58.1.b.i

in sub-paragraph (2), for “the time the liability to tax arose” substitute
“any time in the accounting period to which the amount payable relates” ,

58.1.b.ii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

58.1.b.ii.2A

The references to a member of a group in sub-paragraph (2) do not include a
member of a group that is—

58.1.b.ii.2A.a

a securitisation company (within the meaning given by section 267(4)),

58.1.b.ii.2A.b

a covered bond vehicle (within the meaning given by  section 272A (5) ), or

58.1.b.ii.2A.c

an investment entity.

,

58.1.c

in paragraph 35(1), for “ring-fenced entity”, in the second place it occurs,
substitute  “member of a ring-fenced body sub-group that the entity is a
member of” ,

58.1.d

in paragraph 36(3), for the words from “person” to the end substitute
“recipient is not a person to whom the notice can be given (see paragraphs
34(2) and (2A) and 35(1)).” , and

58.1.e

in paragraph 37—

58.1.e.i

in sub-paragraph (4)(b), after “for” insert  “income tax or” , and

58.1.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (6), for “payer” substitute  “payee” .

58.2

In Schedule 15 (elections)—

58.2.a

in paragraph 1(1), after paragraph (a) insert—

58.2.a.aa

section 141(7);

, and

58.2.b

in paragraph 2(1)—

58.2.b.i

after paragraph (e) insert—

58.2.b.i.ea

section 199;

, and

58.2.b.ii

after paragraph (f) insert—

58.2.b.ii.fa

section 216;

.

58.3

In Schedule 16 (multinational top-up tax: transitional provision), in
paragraph 10—

58.3.a

the existing words become sub-paragraph (1),

58.3.b

in the words before paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph—

58.3.b.i

for “section 226” substitute  “section 227” , and

58.3.b.ii

after “groups)” insert  “, that Chapter has effect as if” ,

58.3.c

in paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph, for “3(2)(c)” substitute  “3(2)(b)” ,
and

58.3.d

after that sub-paragraph insert—

58.3.d.2

For that purpose ignore section 227(1)(a) (reference to ultimate parent
treated as reference to joint venture parent).

58.3.d.3

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
transitional safe harbour election in respect of joint venture members of a
joint venture group in a territory.

58.4

In Schedule 17 (index of defined expressions), in the table—

58.4.a

in the definition of “government entity”, for “government” substitute
“governmental” ,

58.4.b

in the definition of “pensions services entity” for “pensions” substitute
“pension” , and

58.4.c

at the appropriate places insert—

    CFS currency section 254(1)

;

    country-by-country report section 251A

;

    covered bond vehicle section 272A (5)

;

    domestic purposes (in Part 4) section 272(1)

;

    domestic entity purposes (in Part 4) section 273(1)

;

    securitisation company section 267(4)

;

    tax equity partnership arrangement section 176D (5)

;

    transitional safe harbour election section 255 (6)

.

  Promotion of tax avoidance schemes

Section 33

##### Disqualification for promoting tax avoidance

1

In CDDA 1986, after section 8ZE insert—

######### Disqualification for promoting tax avoidance

########## Disqualification following winding up under s.85 of Finance Act 2022

1.8ZF

1.8ZF.1

The court must make a disqualification order against a person if, on an
application under this section, it is satisfied—

1.8ZF.1.a

that the person has at any time after the coming into force of this section
been a director of a company while the company was a relevant body within the
meaning of section 85(4) of the Finance Act 2022 (winding up of promoters of
tax avoidance schemes), and

1.8ZF.1.b

that a court has made a winding-up order in respect of the company under
section 85(3) of that Act (whether while the person was a director or
subsequently).

1.8ZF.2

An officer of Revenue and Customs may make an application to the court for a
disqualification order against a person under this section if it appears to
the officer that it is expedient in the public interest for such an order to
be made.

1.8ZF.3

Except with the permission of the court, an application under  subsection (2)
may not be made after the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the day
on which the winding-up order in question is made.

1.8ZF.4

Under this section the minimum period of disqualification is 2 years, and the
maximum is 15 years.

1.8ZF.5

An officer of Revenue and Customs may accept a disqualification undertaking if
it appears to the officer—

1.8ZF.5.a

that the conditions mentioned in  subsection (1)  are satisfied in relation to
the person who has offered to give the disqualification undertaking, and

1.8ZF.5.b

that it is expedient in the public interest that the officer should accept the
undertaking (instead of applying, or proceeding with an application, for a
disqualification order).

1.8ZF.6

In this section—

      “ company ” includes overseas company;           “ court ” means—
the court having jurisdiction for the purposes of the Insolvency Act 1986, or
the High Court in Northern Ireland;                 “ director ” includes a
shadow director.

########## Disqualification on finding of unfitness: promoters of tax avoidance

1.8ZG

1.8ZG.1

The court may make a disqualification order against a person if, on an
application under this section, it is satisfied—

1.8ZG.1.a

that the person—

1.8ZG.1.a.i

is a director of a company that carries on business as a promoter within the
meaning of Part 5 of the Finance Act 2014 (promoters of tax avoidance
schemes), or

1.8ZG.1.a.ii

after the coming into force of this section, was a director of a company at a
time at which it did so, and

1.8ZG.1.b

that the person’s conduct in relation to the company (either taken alone or
taken together with the person’s conduct as a director of one or more other
companies) makes the person unfit to be concerned in the management of a
company.

1.8ZG.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a) (i) , Part 5 of the Finance Act 2014
has effect as if, in section 234 of that Act—

1.8ZG.2.a

references to “tax” included value added tax and other indirect taxes, and

1.8ZG.2.b

the definition of “tax advantage” also included a tax advantage as defined for
VAT in paragraph 6, and for other indirect taxes in paragraph 7, of Schedule
17 to the Finance (No. 2) Act 2017 (disclosure of tax avoidance schemes: VAT
and other indirect taxes).

1.8ZG.3

References in  subsection (1) (b)  to a person’s conduct include conduct
occurring before, as well as after, the coming into force of this section.

1.8ZG.4

An officer of Revenue and Customs may make an application to the court for a
disqualification order against a person under this section if it appears to
the officer that it is expedient in the public interest for such an order to
be made.

1.8ZG.5

The maximum period of disqualification under this section is 15 years.

1.8ZG.6

An officer of Revenue and Customs may accept a disqualification undertaking if
it appears to the officer—

1.8ZG.6.a

that the conditions mentioned in  subsection (1)  are satisfied in relation to
the person who has offered to give the disqualification undertaking, and

1.8ZG.6.b

that it is expedient in the public interest that the officer should accept the
undertaking (instead of applying, or proceeding with an application, for a
disqualification order).

1.8ZG.7

In this section—

      “ company ” includes overseas company;           “ the court ” means—
in England and Wales, the High Court;           in Scotland, the Court of
Session;           in Northern Ireland, the High Court in Northern Ireland;
“ director ” includes a shadow director;           “ indirect tax ” has the
same meaning as in Schedule 17 to the Finance (No. 2) Act 2017 (see paragraph
2(1) of that Schedule).

##### Minor and consequential amendments

2

2.1

CDDA 1986 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 1 (disqualification orders: general)—

2.2.a

in subsection (1), after “6” insert  “,  8ZF ” ;

2.2.b

in subsection (2), for “and 8ZA” substitute  “, 8ZA and  8ZF ” .

2.3

In section 1A (disqualification undertakings: general)—

2.3.a

in subsection (1)—

2.3.a.i

for “and 8ZE” substitute  “, 8ZE,  8ZF  and  8ZG ” , and

2.3.a.ii

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate authority” ;

2.3.b

in subsection (2), for “or 8ZC” substitute  “, 8ZC or  8ZF ” ;

2.3.c

in subsection (4), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
authority” ;

2.3.d

after subsection (4) insert—

2.3.d.5

In this section “ the appropriate authority ” means—

2.3.d.5.a

in relation to an undertaking under section  8ZF  or  8ZG , an officer of
Revenue and Customs;

2.3.d.5.b

in any other case, the Secretary of State.

2.4

In section 8A (variation etc. of disqualification undertaking)—

2.4.a

after subsection (2) insert—

2.4.a.2ZA

Subsection (2) does not apply to an application in the case of an undertaking
given under section  8ZF  or  8ZG , and in such a case on the hearing of the
application an officer of Revenue and Customs—

2.4.a.2ZA.a

must appear and call the attention of the court to any matters which appear to
the officer to be relevant;

2.4.a.2ZA.b

may give evidence or call witnesses.

;

2.4.b

in subsection (3), in paragraph (b), for “or 8” substitute  “, 8,  8ZF  or
8ZG ” .

2.5

In section 12A (Northern Irish disqualification orders), in the words before
paragraph (a), after “2002” insert  “or made by the High Court of Northern
Ireland under section  8ZF  or  8ZG ” .

2.6

In section 12B (Northern Irish disqualification undertakings), in the words
before paragraph (a), after “undertaking” insert  “under section  8ZF  or  8ZG
so far as they extend to Northern Ireland or” .

2.7

In section 12C (determining unfitness etc: matters to be taken into account)—

2.7.a

in subsection (1)—

2.7.a.i

in paragraph (b), after “8” insert  “,  8ZG ” , and

2.7.a.ii

in paragraph (c), after “6” insert  “or  8ZF ” ;

2.7.b

after subsection (3) insert—

2.7.b.3A

This section also applies where an officer of Revenue and Customs must
determine—

2.7.b.3A.a

whether a person's conduct as a director of one or more companies or overseas
companies makes the person unfit to be concerned in the management of a
company;

2.7.b.3A.b

whether to exercise any discretion the officer has to accept a
disqualification undertaking under section  8ZF  or  8ZG .

;

2.7.c

in subsection (4), after “Secretary of State” insert  “or the officer (as the
case may be)” .

2.8

In section 16(4) (application for disqualification order: parties), after
paragraph (b) insert—

2.8.ba

an officer of Revenue and Customs;

.

2.9

In section 17 (application for leave under an order or undertaking)—

2.9.a

after subsection (3ZB) insert—

2.9.a.3ZC

Where a person is subject to a disqualification undertaking accepted at any
time under section  8ZF  or  8ZG , any application for leave for the purposes
of section 1A(1)(a) must be made to any court to which, if an officer of
Revenue and Customs had applied for a disqualification order under the section
in question at that time, the application could have been made.

;

2.9.b

after subsection (5) insert—

2.9.b.5A

Subsection (5) does not apply to an application for leave—

2.9.b.5A.a

for the purposes of section 1(1)(a) if the application for the
disqualification order was made by an officer of Revenue and Customs, or

2.9.b.5A.b

for the purposes of section 1A(1)(a) if the disqualification undertaking was
accepted by an officer of Revenue and Customs.

2.9.b.5B

In such a case, on the hearing of the application an officer of Revenue and
Customs—

2.9.b.5B.a

must appear and call the attention of the court to any matters which appear to
the officer to be relevant;

2.9.b.5B.b

may give evidence or call witnesses.

2.10

In section 18(2A) (disqualification undertakings to be included in register),
after paragraph (a) insert—

2.10.aa

disqualification undertakings accepted by an officer of Revenue and Customs
under section  8ZF  or  8ZG ;

.

2.11

In section 20 (admissibility in evidence of statements)—

2.11.a

in subsection (1), after “1986” insert  “or under the 1989 Order” ;

2.11.b

in subsection (3)—

2.11.b.i

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (c);

2.11.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (d), insert

; or

2.11.b.ii.e

an offence under Article 10 of the Perjury (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 (
S.I. 1979/1714 (N.I. 19))  (false statements made otherwise than on oath).

;

2.11.c

after subsection (4) insert—

2.11.c.5

In subsection (1), “ the 1989 Order ” means the Insolvency (Northern Ireland)
Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) .

2.12

In section 21 (interaction with Insolvency Act 1986)—

2.12.a

in the heading, after “1986” insert  “etc” ;

2.12.b

after subsection (4) insert—

2.12.b.5

Sections  8ZF  and  8ZG  and the other provisions of this Act so far as
relating to applications and orders made, and undertakings accepted, under
those provisions in Northern Ireland, are deemed included in Parts 2 to 7 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19))  for
the purposes of the following Articles of that Order—

      Article 359 (power to make insolvency rules);           Article 361
(fees orders).

2.13

In section 22 (interpretation), after subsection (2A) insert—

2.13.2B

So far as this Act extends to Northern Ireland, subsections (2) and (2A) do
not apply and instead—

      “ company ” means—         a company registered under the Companies Act
2006 in Northern Ireland, or           a company that may be wound up under
Part 6 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I.
19))  (unregistered companies), and                 “ overseas company ” means
a company which is incorporated or formed outside Northern Ireland.

2.14

In section 22H (application of Act to protected cell companies)—

2.14.a

in subsection (1)(a), at the beginning, insert  “so far as this section
extends to England and Wales and Scotland,” ,

2.14.b

after subsection (1)(a) insert—

2.14.b.aa

so far as this section extends to Northern Ireland, “ protected cell company ”
means a protected cell company incorporated under Part 4 of the Risk
Transformation Regulations 2017 which has its registered office in Northern
Ireland;

2.14.c

in subsection (4)(j), at the beginning insert  “so far as this section extends
to England and Wales and Scotland,” ;

2.14.d

after subsection (4)(j), insert—

2.14.d.k

so far as this section extends to Northern Ireland, references to an overseas
company include references to a protected cell company incorporated under the
Risk Transformation Regulations 2017 which has its registered office in
England and Wales (or Wales) or Scotland.

2.15

In section 24 (extent), after subsection (2) insert—

2.15.3

For provision extending this Act (other than sections 13 to 15) to Northern
Ireland so far as relating to applications and orders made, and undertakings
accepted, under section  8ZF  or  8ZG , see  paragraph 4  of  Schedule 13  to
the Finance Act 2024.

3

In the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4)) , in the heading of Article 17, for “in Great Britain”
substitute  “under the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986” .

##### Extent

4

4.1

The amendments made by  paragraph 1  extend to England and Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.

4.2

The amendments made by  paragraph 2  extend to—

4.2.a

England and Wales and Scotland, and

4.2.b

Northern Ireland, so far as relating to applications and orders made, and
undertakings accepted, under sections  8ZF  or  8ZG  of CDDA 1986 (inserted by
paragraph 1 ).

4.3

The other provisions of CDDA 1986, except for sections 13 to 15 (consequences
of contravention), extend to Northern Ireland (as well as England and Wales
and Scotland) so far as relating to applications and orders made, and
undertakings accepted, under section  8ZF  or  8ZG .

##### Practice and procedure

5

5.1

The procedural rules for applications under section 8 of CDDA 1986 apply to
HMRC disqualification applications as they apply to applications by the
Secretary of State, subject to any necessary modifications.

5.2

The procedural rules for applications under Article 11 of the Company
Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I. 2002/3150
(N.I. 4))  apply to HMRC disqualification applications as they apply to
applications by the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, subject to
any necessary modifications.

5.3

Sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  apply only if, and to the extent that, there
are not otherwise procedural rules for HMRC disqualification applications.

5.4

In this paragraph—

5.4.a

the “procedural rules” for applications of a particular kind are the rules,
regulations or practice directions for the time being governing the practice
and procedure (including fees) in respect of applications of that kind, and

5.4.b

an “HMRC disqualification application” is an application by an officer of
Revenue and Customs under section  8ZF  or  8ZG  of CDDA 1986.

##### Interpretation

6

In this Schedule, “ CDDA 1986 ” means the Company Directors Disqualification
Act 1986.

