Title: Housing (Cladding Remediation) (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-09-25
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/7

## Housing (Cladding Remediation) (Scotland) Act 2024

### The Cladding Assurance Register

#### The register

1

1.1

The Scottish Ministers are to maintain a register of buildings (“ the cladding
assurance register ”).

1.2

An entry for a building is to be created in the register once a single-
building assessment has been carried out in relation to it.

1.3

A building’s entry in the register—

1.3.a

must, when first created, include the following information—

1.3.a.i

when a single-building assessment was carried out in relation to it,

1.3.a.ii

what work (if any) a single-building assessment report identified as being
needed to eliminate or mitigate risks to human life that are (directly or
indirectly) created or exacerbated by the building’s external wall cladding
system,

1.3.b

must be amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after any additional work
assessment is carried out in relation to it, to include the following
information—

1.3.b.i

when the additional work assessment was carried out,

1.3.b.ii

what additional work (if any) the additional work assessment report identified
as being needed to eliminate or mitigate risks to human life that are
(directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated by the building’s external
wall cladding system,

1.3.c

must be amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Scottish
Ministers are satisfied that any work mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii) and any
work mentioned in paragraph (b)(ii) has been completed, to include the date on
which they were so satisfied,

1.3.d

may include any other information that the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

1.4

The Scottish Ministers may amend an entry in the register if they consider any
information contained in it to be inaccurate.

1.5

The Scottish Ministers may charge for access to the register.

#### Offence of providing false or misleading information for the register

2

2.1

A person commits an offence if—

2.1.a

the person gives information that the person knows, or ought to know, is false
or misleading to—

2.1.a.i

the Scottish Ministers, or

2.1.a.ii

a person carrying out a single-building assessment or an additional work
assessment, and

2.1.b

the person knows, or is reckless as to whether, giving the information is
likely to result in—

2.1.b.i

a material inaccuracy in an entry in the cladding assurance register, or

2.1.b.ii

an entry for a building not being created in the register when it otherwise
would.

2.2

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

2.3

For the avoidance of doubt, the reference in  subsection (1)  to giving the
Scottish Ministers information is not limited to doing so in response to a
requirement imposed under  section 5 .

### Powers to assess and address danger

#### Scottish Ministers’ powers

##### Powers to assess danger

###### Power to arrange single-building assessment

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers may arrange for a single-building assessment to be
carried out in relation to a building.

3.2

Anything that needs to be done on premises for the purposes of carrying out an
assessment arranged under  subsection (1)  may not be done, without the
consent of the premises’ owner, before the end of the notice period.

3.3

The notice period is a period of 7 days beginning with the day that the
Scottish Ministers give the premises’ owner a written notice explaining what
the carrying out of the assessment may entail.

3.4

At the same time as giving notice to the premises’ owner in order to begin the
notice period, the Scottish Ministers are to give a written notice in the same
terms to any occupier of the premises.

###### Power to arrange additional work assessment

4

4.1

The Scottish Ministers may arrange for an additional work assessment to be
carried out in relation to a building in relation to which a single-building
assessment has been carried out.

4.2

Subsection (3) applies where—

4.2.a

something needs to be done on premises for the purposes of carrying out an
assessment arranged under subsection (1), and

4.2.b

the premises are not premises on which a person carrying out work under an
arrangement made under  this Chapter  is entitled, by virtue of  section 13 ,
to do anything reasonably required to carry out that work.

4.3

Anything that needs to be done on the premises for the purposes of carrying
out an assessment arranged under subsection (1) may not be done, without the
consent of the owner, before the end of the notice period.

4.4

The notice period is a period of 7 days beginning with the day that the
Scottish Ministers give the premises’ owner a written notice explaining what
the carrying out of the assessment may entail.

4.5

At the same time as giving notice to the premises’ owner in order to begin the
notice period, the Scottish Ministers are to give a written notice in the same
terms to any occupier of the premises.

###### Power to require information for assessments and the register

5

5.1

The Scottish Ministers may require any person to supply them with information
which is reasonably required—

5.1.a

by a person for the purpose of carrying out a single-building assessment or an
additional work assessment, or

5.1.b

by them for the purpose of maintaining the cladding assurance register.

5.2

A requirement under  subsection (1)  is imposed on a person by the Scottish
Ministers giving the person a written notice specifying—

5.2.a

the information, or the nature of the information, which is to be supplied,

5.2.b

the form in which it is to be supplied,

5.2.c

the date on or by which it is to be supplied,

5.2.d

why it is required.

5.3

A person may not be required under  subsection (1)  to supply information
which that person would be entitled to refuse to provide in proceedings in a
court in Scotland.

5.4

The Scottish Ministers may relieve a person from a requirement to supply
information under  subsection (1)  by giving the person a written notice to
that effect.

5.5

In  this section , “ information ” includes unrecorded information.

###### Offence of failing to comply with requirement under 

6

6.1

A person who is required under  section 5 (1)  to supply information commits
an offence if the person fails, without reasonable excuse, to supply the
information in the required form by the date on or by which it is to be
supplied.

6.2

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

##### Powers to address danger

###### Power to arrange remediation work

7

7.1

The Scottish Ministers may arrange for work to be carried out that is
identified as being needed to eliminate or mitigate risks to human life that
are (directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated by a building’s external
wall cladding system in—

7.1.a

a single-building assessment report, or

7.1.b

an additional work assessment report.

7.2

Work arranged under  subsection (1) (a) or (b) may not begin on premises,
without the consent of the premises’ owner—

7.2.a

before the end of the notice period in relation to the work identified as
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or, as the case may be, (b), or

7.2.b

if an appeal against the decision to arrange for the work to be carried out is
made within that period, before the appeal is finally determined or withdrawn.

7.3

The notice period is a period of 21 days beginning with the day that the
Scottish Ministers give the premises’ owner a written notice explaining—

7.3.a

what work is to be carried out,

7.3.b

what a person carrying it out is entitled to do by  section 13 ,

7.3.c

the right to appeal under  section 12  against the decision to arrange for the
work to be carried out.

7.4

At the same time as giving notice to the premises’ owner in order to begin the
notice period, the Scottish Ministers are to give a written notice in the same
terms to any occupier of the premises.

###### Power to arrange urgent remediation work

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers may arrange for work to be carried out where—

8.1.a

the work is identified as being needed to eliminate or mitigate a risk to
human life that is (directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated by a
building’s external wall cladding system either—

8.1.a.i

in a single-building assessment report or an additional work assessment
report, or

8.1.a.ii

by a person carrying out a single-building assessment or an additional work
assessment raising the risk with the Scottish Ministers before completing the
assessment, and

8.1.b

the risk to human life is so immediate that it would be inappropriate to delay
the work starting by arranging for it to be carried out under  section 7
instead.

8.2

Where the Scottish Ministers arrange under  subsection (1)  for work to be
carried out on premises, they are to give the premises’ owners and occupiers
such notice of the work (if any) as the circumstances permit.

###### Power to evacuate

9

9.1

The Scottish Ministers may require the occupants of premises to remove from
them in any of the following circumstances—

9.1.a

in the Scottish Ministers’ opinion—

9.1.a.i

there is a substantial risk to the occupants’ lives, or

9.1.a.ii

continued occupation of the premises would mean that there would be a
substantial risk to the lives of the occupants of any other premises,

due (directly or indirectly) to the external wall cladding system of a
building that is undergoing, or has undergone, a single-building assessment or
an additional work assessment,

9.1.b

the Scottish Ministers have arranged for work to be carried out under  section
7  or  8  and, in their opinion, the occupants of the premises may be
endangered by the carrying out of the work.

9.2

A requirement to remove from premises in the circumstance mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) —

9.2.a

may be imposed by informing the occupants verbally, or by giving them written
notice, that they are to remove from the premises,

9.2.b

may require the occupants to remove from the premises immediately.

9.3

A requirement to remove from premises in the circumstance mentioned in
subsection (1) (b) —

9.3.a

may be imposed only by giving the occupants a written notice that they are to
remove from the premises by a date specified in the notice,

9.3.b

may not require the occupants to remove before the end of the 14 day period
beginning with the day that the notice required by  paragraph (a)  is given.

9.4

Having imposed a requirement to remove from premises under  this section , and
having since become satisfied that no-one would be endangered by occupying the
premises, the Scottish Ministers must—

9.4.a

cause notice to that effect to be conspicuously displayed on or near the
premises for a period of at least 14 days, and

9.4.b

take all reasonable steps to give notice to that effect to any person who—

9.4.b.i

removed from the premises in accordance with a requirement imposed under  this
section , or

9.4.b.ii

was ejected from them by virtue of a warrant granted under  paragraph 3  of
the schedule .

9.5

A person’s tenancy of premises is not to be taken to have been terminated,
varied or altered by reason of the person’s—

9.5.a

removing from the premises in accordance with a requirement imposed under
this section , or

9.5.b

being ejected from the premises by virtue of a warrant granted under
paragraph 3  of  the schedule .

9.6

The schedule  makes provision about the granting of warrants for the ejection
of occupants required to remove under  this section .

###### Offence of occupying evacuated premises

10

10.1

A person commits an offence if the person occupies premises when forbidden to
do so.

10.2

A person is forbidden to occupy premises during the period that—

10.2.a

begins with the person’s—

10.2.a.i

removing from the premises in accordance with a requirement imposed under
section 9 , or

10.2.a.ii

being ejected from the premises by virtue of a warrant granted under
paragraph 3  of  the schedule , and

10.2.b

ends with the first day on which notice is displayed in accordance with
section 9 (4) (a)  that the Scottish Ministers have become satisfied that no-
one would be endangered by occupying the premises.

10.3

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to—

10.3.a

a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale,

10.3.b

a term of imprisonment not exceeding 3 months, or

10.3.c

both.

##### Personal emergency evacuation plans

###### Personal emergency evacuation plans

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision in relation to the
development and provision of personal emergency evacuation plans for occupiers
of a building to which a single-building assessment applies who have a
disability.

11.2

Regulations must provide for any personal emergency evacuation plan to expire
on the day on which the Scottish Ministers amend the cladding assurance
register under section 1(3)(c) to confirm that all necessary works have been
completed.

11.3

Regulations under subsection (1) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Appeal

###### Appeal against arranged remediation work

12

12.1

The owner of premises, having received notice under  section 7  that the
Scottish Ministers have arranged for work to be carried out on the premises,
may appeal to the sheriff against the Scottish Ministers’ decision to make
that arrangement.

12.2

An appeal may be made under  this section —

12.2.a

without the sheriff’s permission within the 21 day period described by
section 7 (3) ,

12.2.b

only with the sheriff’s permission on cause shown outwith that period.

12.3

The sheriff must—

12.3.a

hold a hearing on an appeal under this section within 21 days of the appeal
being made, and

12.3.b

give the parties to the appeal an opportunity to make representations at the
hearing.

12.4

At the hearing, the sheriff may—

12.4.a

determine the appeal, or

12.4.b

on a motion of a party or on the sheriff’s own initiative, continue the
proceedings.

12.5

In deciding whether to continue the proceedings and, if so, to when, the
sheriff must have regard to all the circumstances of the case, including the
effect that any continuation of proceedings would have in relation to the
elimination or mitigation of risks to human life that—

12.5.a

are (directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated by a building’s external
wall cladding system, and

12.5.b

were identified in the single-building assessment report or the additional
work assessment report which identified the need for the work to which the
decision appealed relates.

12.6

On an appeal under  this section , the sheriff may—

12.6.a

dismiss it,

12.6.b

order that only some of the work in question be carried out,

12.6.c

order that none of the work be carried out,

12.6.d

make any other order the sheriff thinks just.

12.7

The decision of the sheriff on an appeal under  this section  is final.

#### Carrying out assessments and work

##### Authority for carrying out assessment or work

13

13.1

A person carrying out, under an arrangement made under  Chapter 1 , a single-
building assessment, an additional work assessment or work is entitled by
this subsection  to do anything reasonably required to carry out that
assessment or work, including—

13.1.a

entering premises (subject to  subsections (3)  and  (4) (a) ),

13.1.b

taking other persons, and equipment, onto premises,

13.1.c

removing things from premises and arranging for their retention until claimed
by a person having a right of possession to them,

13.1.d

carrying out reasonable tests to determine the properties of any material.

13.2

Subsection (1)  does not, of itself, entitle a person to use force to enter
premises (for that a warrant is required under  section 14 ).

13.3

Subsection (1)  does not entitle a person to enter Crown premises without the
owner’s consent.

13.4

A person entitled to enter premises by  subsection (1) —

13.4.a

is entitled by that subsection to do so—

13.4.a.i

only at a reasonable time of day, and

13.4.a.ii

only if the premises’ occupants have been given at least 24 hours’ notice
(subject to  subsection (5) ),

13.4.b

if requested to do so when seeking entry to the premises, or while on them,
must produce written evidence of the legal basis for the person’s entitlement
to enter them,

13.4.c

must leave the premises no less effectually secured against unauthorised entry
as the person found them.

13.5

The requirement for notice under  subsection (4) (a) (ii)  does not apply in
an urgent situation.

13.6

A person’s entitlement to do anything mentioned in  this section  is subject
to any contrary or qualifying provision in a warrant under  section 14 .

13.7

Nothing in  this section  entitles a person to do any thing—

13.7.a

in breach of  section 3 (2) ,  4 (3)  or  7 (2) ,

13.7.b

without any warrant, permission, consent or other approval (however described)
from a public authority that would ordinarily be required in relation to doing
the thing.

##### Warrant authorising use of force to effect entry

14

14.1

The holder of a judicial office mentioned in  subsection (6)  may grant a
warrant authorising a person entitled to enter premises by  section 13 (1)  to
use reasonable force in accordance with the terms of the warrant.

14.2

An application for a warrant under this section may be made only by the
Scottish Ministers.

14.3

A warrant under this section may be granted only if the judicial office-holder
is satisfied, by evidence on oath—

14.3.a

that there are reasonable grounds for the person to enter the premises for the
purpose of doing something the person is entitled to do by  section 13 (1) ,
and

14.3.b

that—

14.3.b.i

entry to the premises has been refused,

14.3.b.ii

such a refusal is reasonably expected,

14.3.b.iii

the premises are unoccupied,

14.3.b.iv

the premises’ occupier is temporarily absent,

14.3.b.v

the case is one of urgency, or

14.3.b.vi

that an application for admission would defeat the object of the proposed
entry.

14.4

A judicial office-holder may not be satisfied that a condition specified by
any of  sub-paragraphs (ii)  to  (iv)  of  subsection (3) (b)  is met unless
the office-holder is also satisfied that notice of intention to apply for a
warrant has been given to the premises’ occupier.

14.5

A warrant under  this section  ceases to have effect—

14.5.a

when the purpose for which it was granted is fulfilled, or

14.5.b

if the warrant specifies a date for its own expiry, on that date (if it has
not already ceased to have effect by virtue of  paragraph (a) ).

14.6

The judicial offices referred to in  subsection (1)  are—

14.6.a

sheriff,

14.6.b

summary sheriff.

##### Offence of obstructing assessment or work

15

15.1

A person (“ A ”) commits an offence if—

15.1.a

another person (“ B ”) is carrying out a single-building assessment, an
additional work assessment or work arranged under  Chapter 1 ,

15.1.b

the use of reasonable force by B is authorised in connection with the carrying
out of the assessment or work by a warrant under  section 14 , and

15.1.c

without reasonable excuse, A intentionally obstructs B from doing something
that B is entitled to do by  section 13 (1) .

15.2

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

##### Offence of failing to assist with assessment or work

16

16.1

A person (“ A ”) commits an offence if—

16.1.a

another person (“ B ”)—

16.1.a.i

is on premises carrying out a single-building assessment, an additional work
assessment or work arranged under  Chapter 1 , and

16.1.a.ii

reasonably requests assistance or information from A for the purposes of
carrying out the assessment or work,

16.1.b

the use of reasonable force by B is authorised in connection with the carrying
out of the assessment or work by a warrant under  section 14 ,

16.1.c

A is either—

16.1.c.i

also on the premises, or

16.1.c.ii

is the owner or occupier of the premises, and

16.1.d

without reasonable excuse A fails to provide the requested assistance or
information.

16.2

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

#### Notices

##### Power to require information to give notice

17

17.1

The Scottish Ministers may, for the purpose of enabling them to give a notice
under  this Part , require any person to whom  subsection (2)  applies to
state, in writing, to the Ministers—

17.1.a

the nature of the person’s interest in the premises in connection with which
the notice is to be given, and

17.1.b

the name and address of any other person known by that person to have an
interest in the premises.

17.2

This subsection  applies to the following—

17.2.a

the owner of the premises in question,

17.2.b

the occupier of the premises,

17.2.c

any person who receives rent (directly or indirectly) in respect of the
premises.

17.3

A requirement under  subsection (1)  is imposed on a person by the Scottish
Ministers giving the person notice of—

17.3.a

the information required, and

17.3.b

the deadline for providing it.

17.4

A person may not be required under  subsection (1)  to disclose any
information which that person would be entitled to refuse to provide in
proceedings in a court in Scotland.

17.5

The Scottish Ministers may relieve a person from a requirement to provide
information under  subsection (1)  by giving the person a written notice to
that effect.

17.6

A person who is required under  subsection (1)  to provide information commits
an offence if the person—

17.6.a

without reasonable excuse fails to provide it by the deadline, or

17.6.b

knowingly or recklessly provides in response to the requirement a statement
that is false, or misleading, in a material particular.

17.7

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (6)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 2 on the standard scale.

##### Giving notice where recipient’s address is unknown

18

18.1

Where—

18.1.a

under  this Part , the Scottish Ministers are required to give notice to a
person, and

18.1.b

despite having made reasonable inquiries they cannot ascertain that person’s
proper address,

a written notice is to be taken to have been given to the person 48 hours
after the Scottish Ministers cause the notice to be conspicuously displayed on
or near the premises in connection with which the notice is to be given.

18.2

In  subsection (1) , “ proper address ” has the meaning given in section 26(4)
of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010.

##### Deemed receipt of notice

19

For the purposes of  this Part , where a notice is served as mentioned in
section 26(2)(b) or (c) of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act 2010, it is to be taken to have been received 48 hours after it
is sent.

### Offences under Parts 1 and 2

#### Individual culpability where organisation commits an offence

20

20.1

This section applies where—

20.1.a

an offence under  Part 1  or  2  is committed by an organisation, and

20.1.b

the commission of the offence—

20.1.b.i

involves consent or connivance on the part of a responsible individual, or

20.1.b.ii

is attributable to neglect on the part of a responsible individual.

20.2

The responsible individual (as well as the organisation) commits the offence.

20.3

For the purposes of this section, “ responsible individual ” means, in
relation to an organisation listed in the first column of the following table—

20.3.a

an individual falling within the corresponding entry in the second column of
the table,

20.3.b

an individual purporting to act in the capacity of an individual falling
within the corresponding entry.

    Organisation Individual   Company as mentioned in section 1 of the
Companies Act 2006 Director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, or,
where the company’s affairs are managed by its members, member Limited
liability partnership Member Other partnership Partner Any other body or
association Individual who is concerned in the management or control of its
affairs

#### Crown application: criminal offences

21

21.1

Nothing in  Part 1  or  2  makes the Crown criminally liable.

21.2

But the Court of Session may, on an application by the Lord Advocate, declare
unlawful any act or omission for which the Crown would be criminally liable
were it not for  subsection (1) .

21.3

Subsection (1)  does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

### Engagement with owners and occupiers

#### Pre-assessment engagement

22

22.1

The Scottish Ministers must, where a relevant assessment arranged by them
under Chapter 1 of Part 2 in relation to a building involves entry on
premises, use their best endeavours to ensure that, before the first premises
are entered for the purposes of the arrangement, the persons mentioned in
subsection (2) are—

22.1.a

informed that the assessment is to be carried out, and

22.1.b

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the assessment to a
person appointed for that purpose by the Scottish Ministers.

22.2

The persons are—

22.2.a

where the assessment is arranged by the Scottish Ministers in order to enable
a relevant assessment arranged by another person to be completed, the owners
and occupiers of premises that—

22.2.a.i

form part of the building to which the assessment relates, and

22.2.a.ii

are to be entered pursuant to the arrangement made by the Scottish Ministers,

22.2.b

otherwise, the owners and occupiers of the building to which the assessment
relates.

22.3

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers’
duty under that subsection is to be regarded as fulfilled if the person
carrying out the assessment arranged by the Scottish Ministers has a duty,
under an agreement with the Scottish Ministers, to use the person’s best
endeavours to ensure that the persons mentioned in subsection (2) are—

22.3.a

informed that the assessment is to be carried out, and

22.3.b

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the assessment to a
person appointed for that purpose by the person carrying out the assessment.

22.4

In this section and sections  23  and  24 , “ relevant assessment ” means—

22.4.a

a single-building assessment, or

22.4.b

an additional work assessment.

#### Post-assessment engagement: reports

23

23.1

The Scottish Ministers must, where they arranged a relevant assessment in
relation to a building under Chapter 1 of Part 2, use their best endeavours to
ensure that the persons mentioned in subsection (2) are—

23.1.a

so far as practicable, informed, in plain language, of the conclusions
contained in the report of the assessment, and

23.1.b

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the report to a person
appointed for that purpose by the Scottish Ministers.

23.2

The persons are—

23.2.a

where the assessment was arranged by the Scottish Ministers in order to enable
a relevant assessment arranged by another person to be completed, the owners
and occupiers of premises that—

23.2.a.i

form part of the building to which the assessment related, and

23.2.a.ii

were entered pursuant to the arrangement made by the Scottish Ministers,

23.2.b

otherwise, the owners and occupiers of the building to which the assessment
related.

23.3

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers’
duty under that subsection is to be regarded as fulfilled if the person who
carried out the assessment has a duty, under an agreement with the Scottish
Ministers, to use the person’s best endeavours to ensure that the persons
mentioned in subsection (2) are—

23.3.a

so far as practicable, informed, in plain language, of the conclusions
contained in the report of the assessment, and

23.3.b

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the report to a person
appointed for that purpose by the person who carried out the assessment.

#### Post-assessment engagement: remediation work

24

24.1

The Scottish Ministers must, where they arrange remediation work in relation
to a building under Chapter 1 of Part 2, use their best endeavours to ensure
that the persons mentioned in subsection (2) are—

24.1.a

before the remediation work begins—

24.1.a.i

informed that the work is to be carried out, and

24.1.a.ii

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the work to a person
appointed for that purpose by the Scottish Ministers,

24.1.b

while the remediation work is carried out—

24.1.b.i

kept informed, so far as is practicable, about the progress of the work, and

24.1.b.ii

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the progress of the work
to a person appointed for the purpose by the Scottish Ministers,

24.1.c

as soon as practicable after the building’s entry in the cladding assurance
register is amended to record the date on which the Sottish Ministers were
satisfied that the work had been completed, informed of that fact.

24.2

The persons are—

24.2.a

where the work is arranged by the Scottish Ministers in order to enable
remediation work arranged by another person to be completed, the owners and
occupiers of premises that—

24.2.a.i

form part of the building to which the relevant assessment that identified the
work as being needed related, and

24.2.a.ii

are to be entered pursuant to the arrangement made by the Scottish Ministers,

24.2.b

otherwise, the owners and occupiers of the building to which the relevant
assessment that identified the work as being needed related.

24.3

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers’
duty under that subsection is to be regarded as fulfilled if the person
carrying out the work arranged by the Scottish Ministers has a duty, under an
agreement with the Scottish Ministers, to use the person’s best endeavours to
ensure that the persons mentioned in subsection (2) are—

24.3.a

informed that the work is to be carried out, and

24.3.b

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the work to a person
appointed for that purpose by the person carrying out the assessment.

24.4

Where remediation work is arranged by the Scottish Ministers under  section 8
, the Scottish Ministers need comply with the duties imposed by  subsection
(1) (a)  and  (b)  only to the extent that is practicable in the
circumstances.

24.5

In this section, “ remediation work ” means work identified in a single-
building assessment report or an additional work assessment report as being
needed to eliminate or mitigate risks to human life that are (directly or
indirectly) created or exacerbated by a building’s external wall cladding
system.

### Responsible developers scheme

#### Power to establish scheme

25

25.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations establish a responsible developers
scheme (or more than one).

25.2

The purpose of a responsible developers scheme is to secure that persons in
the building industry address, or contribute towards the costs of addressing,
risks to human life created or exacerbated (directly or indirectly) by the
external wall cladding systems of buildings that are wholly or partly
residential.

25.3

Regulations establishing a scheme are to include provision about—

25.3.a

who is eligible to be a member of a responsible developers scheme,

25.3.b

the conditions of becoming, and remaining, a member,

25.3.c

loss of membership,

25.3.d

the consequences of a person who is eligible to be a member not being a
member.

25.4

Without prejudice to the generality of any other provision in  this Part ,
regulations under  subsection (1)  may in particular—

25.4.a

make provision about who is to operate a scheme (including by allowing a
person to be appointed for that purpose in accordance with the regulations),

25.4.b

confer functions on persons,

25.4.c

require members, or persons seeking to become members, of a scheme to pay
fees,

25.4.d

make provision about the processes to be followed by the person operating a
scheme (including in relation to decisions by the person about another
person’s membership of the scheme),

25.4.e

make different provision for different developers with regard to the size or
other characteristics of a developer,

25.4.f

make provision—

25.4.f.i

requiring the Scottish Ministers to use their best endeavours to secure the
outcome mentioned in subsection (5), and

25.4.f.ii

describing circumstances in which such a requirement is to be regarded as
having been complied with.

25.5

The outcome is that, in relation to any single-building assessment, additional
work assessment or work identified in a single-building assessment report or
an additional work assessment report as being needed to eliminate or mitigate
risks to human life that are (directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated
by a building’s external wall cladding system arranged by a member of the
scheme, the member uses the member’s best endeavours to ensure that the owners
and occupiers of the building are—

25.5.a

informed that the assessment or work is to be carried out, and

25.5.b

given a reasonable opportunity to put questions about the assessment or work
to a person appointed for that purpose by the member.

25.6

Before making regulations under subsection (1), the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

25.6.a

such persons as appear to the Scottish Ministers to represent the interests of
persons carrying on, for business purposes, activities connected with the
construction or other development of buildings which are wholly or partly
residential, and

25.6.b

such other persons,

as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

#### Eligibility for membership

26

26.1

This section  elaborates on the provision that is to be made by regulations in
accordance with  section 25 (3) (a) .

26.2

Regulations must make being eligible for membership of a scheme depend on a
person—

26.2.a

being a developer, and

26.2.b

having a connection to a building of a kind described by the regulations that
has problematic cladding.

26.3

It is for the regulations to describe the kind of connection to a building
that a developer must have in order to be eligible for membership of a scheme.

26.4

The regulations may provide for a connection of an indirect kind to suffice.

26.5

Subsection (2)  is not exhaustive of the matters that regulations may specify
as criteria for being eligible for membership of a scheme.

26.6

In  this section —

      “ developer ” means a person carrying on, for business purposes,
activities connected with the construction or other development of buildings,
“ problematic cladding ” means an external wall cladding system in relation to
which a single-building assessment report states that—         (directly or
indirectly) the cladding system creates or exacerbates a risk to human life,
and           work is needed to eliminate or mitigate that risk.

#### Conditions of membership

27

27.1

This section  elaborates on the provision that is to be made by regulations in
accordance with  section 25 (3) (b) .

27.2

Conditions of becoming, and remaining, a member of a scheme may include
conditions relating to—

27.2.a

carrying out single-building assessments and additional work assessments and
the carrying out of work identified as needed in a single-building assessment
report or an additional work assessment report,

27.2.b

making financial contributions towards meeting costs associated with carrying
out single-building assessments and additional work assessments and the
carrying out of work identified as needed in a single-building assessment
report or an additional work assessment report,

27.2.c

the provision of information to the Scottish Ministers or any other person,

27.2.d

abiding by the terms of an agreement.

27.3

Regulations must provide for a right of appeal to a court or tribunal against
a decision of the person operating a scheme to refuse to allow another person
to become a member of the scheme on the grounds that the person does not meet
the conditions for becoming a member.

#### Loss of membership

28

28.1

This section  elaborates on the provision that is to be made by regulations in
accordance with  section 25 (3) (c) .

28.2

Regulations must enable a person who has become a member of a scheme to choose
to stop being a member.

28.3

Regulations must provide for a right of appeal to a court or tribunal against
a decision of the person operating a scheme to stop another person’s
membership of a scheme on the grounds that the person has not met the
conditions for becoming or remaining a member.

#### Consequences of not being a member

29

29.1

This section  elaborates on the provision that is to be made by regulations in
accordance with  section 25 (3) (d) .

29.2

Regulations are to provide that the person operating a scheme is to publish a
list of persons who are eligible to be members of the scheme but are not (“a
prohibited developers list”).

29.3

Regulations may, in relation to a person included on a prohibited developers
list—

29.3.a

prohibit the person from carrying out—

29.3.a.i

any development, or

29.3.a.ii

development of a kind described in the regulations,

29.3.b

prevent a building warrant from being granted, or amended, on an application
by the person,

29.3.c

require a verifier to reject any completion certificate submitted by the
person.

29.4

Regulations may modify any enactment for a purpose mentioned in  subsection
(3) .

29.5

Regulations may, in particular, modify Part 6 (enforcement) of the Town and
Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997 so that its provisions apply in relation
to the carrying out of development in breach of a prohibition created by
virtue of  subsection (3) (a)  as though doing so were a breach of planning
control.

29.6

Regulations may create offences in connection with breaching a prohibition on
carrying out development created by virtue of  subsection (3) (a) .

29.7

The maximum penalties that may be provided for in respect of offences created
by virtue of  subsection (6)  are—

29.7.a

on summary conviction, a fine not exceeding £50,000,

29.7.b

on conviction on indictment, a fine.

29.8

Regulations must provide for a right to appeal to a court against a decision
to include a person on a prohibited developers list.

29.9

In  this section —

29.9.a

“ development ” has the meaning given by section 26 (meaning of “ development
”) of the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997,

29.9.b

the following terms have the meanings given by section 56 (interpretation) of
the Building (Scotland) Act 2003—

29.9.b.i

building warrant,

29.9.b.ii

completion certificate,

29.9.b.iii

verifier.

### Progress reports

#### Reports on progress with single-building assessments and remediation work

30

30.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare a report on the progress made during each
reporting period in the arranging and carrying out of—

30.1.a

single-building assessments, and

30.1.b

remediation work identified as being needed in single-building assessment
reports and additional work assessment reports.

30.2

A report under subsection (1)—

30.2.a

must include the information described in  section 31 (1) ,

30.2.b

may include such other information as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

30.3

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as practicable after the end of each
reporting period—

30.3.a

lay the report prepared under subsection (1) for that period before the
Scottish Parliament, and

30.3.b

publish the report.

30.4

In this section and  section 31 —

      “ remediation work ” means work to eliminate or mitigate any risk to
human life that is (directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated by a
building’s external wall cladding system,           “ reporting period ”
means—         the period of 18 months beginning with the day on which this
section comes into force,           each of the subsequent 9 periods of one
year beginning with the day after the last day of the preceding reporting
period.

30.5

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend subsection (4) to increase the
number of one year reporting periods in relation to which a report under
subsection (1) must be prepared.

#### Content of reports under 

31

31.1

The information referred to in  section 30 (2) (a)  is the following
information—

31.1.a

the number of persons who are, on the last day of the reporting period, a
member of a responsible developers scheme established by regulations made
under section 25(1),

31.1.b

the number of buildings in relation to which a single-building assessment
arranged by—

31.1.b.i

the Scottish Ministers,

31.1.b.ii

a responsible developers scheme member,

is in progress on the last day of the reporting period,

31.1.c

the number of buildings in relation to which remediation work identified as
being needed in a single-building assessment report or an additional work
assessment report and arranged by—

31.1.c.i

the Scottish Ministers,

31.1.c.ii

a responsible developers scheme member,

is in progress on the last day of the reporting period,

31.1.d

the number of times during the reporting period that each type of event listed
in subsection (2) occurred,

31.1.e

the number of entries for buildings in the cladding assurance register
(whenever created) that—

31.1.e.i

record that the single-building assessment report relating to the building
identifies remediation work as being needed, but

31.1.e.ii

have not, on or before the last day of the reporting period, been amended to
include a date on which the Scottish Ministers were satisfied that the work
was completed,

31.1.f

the number of entries for buildings in the register (whenever created) that—

31.1.f.i

have been amended (at any time) to record that an additional work assessment
relating to the building identifies remediation work as being needed, but

31.1.f.ii

have not, on or before the last day of the reporting period, been amended to
include a date on which the Scottish Ministers were satisfied that the work
was completed.

31.2

The events referred to in subsection (1)(d) are—

31.2.a

the creation of an entry for a building in the register that records that the
single-building assessment report relating to the building—

31.2.a.i

identifies remediation work as being needed,

31.2.a.ii

does not identify any such work as being needed,

31.2.b

the amendment of an entry for a building in the register (whenever created) to
record that an additional work assessment report relating to the building—

31.2.b.i

identifies remediation work as being needed,

31.2.b.ii

does not identify any such work as being needed,

31.2.c

the amendment of an entry for a building in the register (whenever created)
that records that a single-building assessment report relating to the building
identifies remediation work as being needed to include the date on which the
Scottish Ministers were satisfied that the work was complete,

31.2.d

the amendment of an entry for a building in the register (whenever created)
that has been amended (at any time) to record that an additional work
assessment report relating to the building identifies remediation work as
being needed to include the date on which the Scottish Ministers were
satisfied that the work was complete.

### Interpretation and final provisions

#### Interpretation

##### Meaning of single-building assessment

32

32.1

In this Act, a “ single-building assessment ” means an assessment that—

32.1.a

relates to a building that—

32.1.a.i

is a flatted building as defined in section 16(4) of the Land Registration
etc. (Scotland) Act 2012,

32.1.a.ii

contains at least one flat that is used, or intended to be used, as a
dwelling,

32.1.a.iii

has an external wall cladding system,

32.1.a.iv

stands 11 metres or more above the ground, and

32.1.a.v

has been constructed, or otherwise undergone development, at any time within
the period beginning with 1 June 1992 and ending with 1 June 2022,

32.1.b

assesses, and culminates in a report on—

32.1.b.i

any risk to human life that is (directly or indirectly) created or exacerbated
by the building’s external wall cladding system, and

32.1.b.ii

what work (if any) is needed to eliminate or mitigate any risk of that kind
which is identified, and

32.1.c

is carried out—

32.1.c.i

in accordance with the standards for the time being specified by the Scottish
Ministers, and

32.1.c.ii

by a person authorised by the Scottish Ministers to carry it out.

32.2

For the purposes of—

32.2.a

subsection (1), a building stands 11 metres or more above the ground if,
excluding roof-top plant areas and any top storey consisting exclusively of
plant rooms, the building has at least one storey the finished floor level of
which, measuring vertically, is (or would be if it was directly above the
building’s lowest point) 11 metres or more higher than the building’s lowest
point,

32.2.b

paragraph (a), a building’s lowest point is the point at which the surface of
the ground adjacent to the building is lowest.

##### Power to modify meaning of single-building assessment

33

33.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  section 32  so as to change
or clarify the types of building in relation to which a single-building
assessment may be carried out.

33.2

Regulations under  this section  may not modify  section 32  so that a single-
building assessment may be carried out in relation to a building that—

33.2.a

is not, and does not contain any premises that are, a dwelling or intended to
be used as a dwelling,

33.2.b

does not have an external wall cladding system.

##### Meaning of additional work assessment

34

In this Act, an “ additional work assessment ” means an assessment that—

34.a

relates to a building in relation to which a single-building assessment has
been carried out,

34.b

is required as a result of additional information coming to light in the
period between—

34.b.i

the single-building assessment report being completed, and

34.b.ii

the date on which the Scottish Ministers were satisfied that any work
identified in that report, or in an additional work assessment report, as
being needed to eliminate or mitigate risks to human life that are (directly
or indirectly) created or exacerbated by the building’s external wall cladding
system had been completed,

34.c

assesses, and culminates in a report on, whether any additional work is needed
to eliminate or mitigate such risks, and

34.d

is carried out—

34.d.i

in accordance with the standards for the time being specified by the Scottish
Ministers, and

34.d.ii

by a person authorised by the Scottish Ministers to carry it out.

##### Meaning of “

35

35.1

In this Act, “ owner ” in relation to Crown premises specified in the first
column of the following table means the person specified in the corresponding
entry in the second column.

    Crown premises Person to be treated as owner   Premises an interest in
which belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms part of the
Crown Estate (that is, the property, rights and interests under the management
of the Crown Estate Commissioners) The Crown Estate Commissioners Premises an
interest in which belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms
part of the Scottish Crown Estate The person managing the premises Premises an
interest in which belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown other than
premises forming part of the Crown Estate or the Scottish Crown Estate The
office-holder in the Scottish Administration or, as the case may be, the
government department managing the premises Premises an interest in which
belongs to His Majesty in right of His private estates The person appointed by
His Majesty in writing under the Royal Sign Manual or, if no such appointment
is made, the Scottish Ministers Premises an interest in which belongs to an
office-holder in the Scottish Administration The office-holder in the Scottish
Administration Premises an interest in which belongs to a government
department The government department Premises an interest in which is held in
trust for His Majesty by an office-holder in the Scottish Administration for
the purposes of the Scottish Administration The office-holder in the Scottish
Administration Premises an interest in which is held in trust for His Majesty
for the purposes of a government department The government department

35.2

In  subsection (1) —

35.2.a

the reference to His Majesty’s private estates is to be construed in
accordance with section 1 of the Crown Private Estates Act 1862,

35.2.b

“ government department ” means a department of the Government of the United
Kingdom,

35.2.c

“ Scottish Crown Estate ” means the property, rights and interests to which
section 90B(5) of the Scotland Act 1998 applies.

35.3

It is for the Scottish Ministers to determine any question that arises as to
who is to be treated as the “owner” of any premises in accordance with
subsection (1) , and their decision is final.

##### Interpretation of other words and expressions

36

36.1

In this Act—

      “ additional work assessment report ” means the report of an additional
work assessment by the person who carried out the assessment,           “
occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person entitled to occupy them
under a lease, licence or other occupancy arrangement,           “ on ”, in
relation to premises, includes “ in ” (and “ onto ” includes “into”),
“ premises ” includes land,           “ single-building assessment report ”
means the report of a single-building assessment by the person who carried out
the assessment.

36.2

It is for the Scottish Ministers to determine any question that arises as to
whether, and to what extent, a structure constitutes, or a number of conjoined
structures constitute, one building for the purposes of any provision of this
Act, and their decision is final.

#### Final provisions

##### Ancillary provision

37

37.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, or in connection with, or for giving full
effect to this Act or any provision made under it.

37.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

##### Regulation-making powers

38

38.1

A power to make regulations conferred by this Act includes the power to make
different provision for different purposes.

38.2

Regulations under  section 30  are subject to the negative procedure.

38.3

Regulations under sections  25  and  33  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

38.4

Regulations under  section 37 —

38.4.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act, but

38.4.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Commencement

39

39.1

This Part comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

39.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

39.3

Regulations under this section may amend subsection (4) of  section 30  so
that the text referring to the day on which the section comes into force
instead specifies the date on which the section actually comes into force.

##### Short title

40

The short title of this Act is the Housing (Cladding Remediation) (Scotland)
Act 2024.

  Warrant to eject from evacuated premises

(introduced by section 9)

##### Application

1

1.1

The Scottish Ministers may apply to the sheriff for a warrant for the ejection
from premises of any occupants who have not removed from them in accordance
with a requirement to do so imposed under  section 9 .

1.2

Where the requirement to remove is imposed in the circumstance mentioned in
section 9 (1) (b) , an application for the ejection of an occupant may not be
made before the day after the date for removal specified in the written notice
to the occupant in accordance with  section 9 (3) (a) .

1.3

An application under  this paragraph  must be accompanied by a certificate
signed on behalf of the Scottish Ministers—

1.3.a

specifying which paragraph of  section 9 (1)  was the basis for their imposing
the requirement to remove from the premises, and

1.3.b

certifying that they continue to be of the opinion mentioned in that
paragraph.

##### Notice to occupants

2

On an application under  paragraph 1 , the sheriff may require the Scottish
Ministers to give a written notice to an occupant of the premises in question.

##### Disposal of application

3

3.1

Where the certificate accompanying an application under  paragraph 1
specifies that a requirement to remove was imposed under  section 9 (1) (a) ,
the sheriff must, if satisfied that it is reasonable to do so, grant a warrant
of ejection within the period of 7 days beginning with—

3.1.a

the date of the application, or

3.1.b

if the Scottish Ministers were required to give written notice under
paragraph 2 , the date that notice was given.

3.2

Where the certificate accompanying an application under  paragraph 1
specifies that a requirement to remove was imposed under  section 9 (1) (b) ,
the sheriff may, if satisfied that it is reasonable to do so, grant a warrant
of ejection.

3.3

A warrant under this paragraph may include such conditions (including
conditions with respect to payment of rent) as the sheriff thinks just and
equitable.

3.4

The sheriff’s decision on an application under  paragraph 1  is final.

##### Evidence

4

In proceedings under  this schedule , a certificate required by  paragraph 1
(3)  is sufficient evidence of the facts stated in it.

