Title: Investigatory Powers (Amendment) Act 2024
Date: 2024-10-16
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/9

## Investigatory Powers (Amendment) Act 2024

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Bulk personal datasets

#### Low or no reasonable expectation of privacy

##### Requirement for authorisation

1

1.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 199 (bulk personal datasets: interpretation)—

1.2.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “Part” insert
“and Part  7A ” ;

1.2.b

in subsection (2), after “Part” insert  “and Part  7A ” .

1.3

In the italic heading before section 200, for “warrant” substitute
“authorisation” .

1.4

In section 200 (requirement for authorisation by warrant: general)—

1.4.a

in subsection (1)—

1.4.a.i

the words “by a warrant under this Part” become paragraph (a);

1.4.a.ii

after that paragraph insert

, or

1.4.a.ii.b

by an individual authorisation under Part  7A  (low or no reasonable
expectation of privacy) (see section  226B ).

;

1.4.b

in subsection (2)—

1.4.b.i

the words “by a warrant under this Part” become paragraph (a);

1.4.b.ii

after that paragraph insert

, or

1.4.b.ii.b

by an individual authorisation under Part  7A .

;

1.4.c

in the heading, omit “by warrant”.

1.5

In section 201 (exceptions to section 200(1) and (2)), in subsection (3)—

1.5.a

for “and 220(5)” substitute  “, 220(5) and  (6)  and  226CC (3) ” ;

1.5.b

after “BPD warrants” insert  “or authorisations under Part  7A ” .

1.6

After section 201 insert—

  Restriction on use of class BPD warrants etc

.

1.7

In section 220 (initial examinations: time limits)—

1.7.a

in subsection (2), for step 3 substitute—

    Step 3       If the head of the intelligence service, or a person acting
on their behalf, decides to retain the set and hold it electronically for
analysis as mentioned in step 2, as soon as reasonably practicable after
making that decision—         apply for a specific BPD warrant (unless the
retention of the dataset is authorised by a class BPD warrant), or
where the head of the intelligence service, or the person acting on their
behalf, considers that section  226A  applies to the dataset, decide to grant
an individual authorisation under Part  7A .

;

1.7.b

after subsection (5) insert—

1.7.b.6

If the head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
decides to grant an individual authorisation under Part  7A  in accordance
with step  3  (set out in subsection (2))—

1.7.b.6.a

the intelligence service is not to be regarded as in breach of section 200(1)
by virtue of retaining the bulk personal dataset during any period when a
Judicial Commissioner is deciding whether to approve the decision to grant the
authorisation (see section  226B (5) ), and

1.7.b.6.b

the intelligence service is not to be regarded as in breach of section 200(2)
by virtue of examining the bulk personal dataset during that period if the
examination is necessary in connection with obtaining the approval of a
Judicial Commissioner.

1.8

In section 225 (application of Part 7 to bulk personal datasets obtained under
the Act)—

1.8.a

in subsection (4)—

1.8.a.i

the words “by a class BPD warrant or a specific BPD warrant under this Part”
become paragraph (a);

1.8.a.ii

after that paragraph insert

, or

1.8.a.ii.b

by an individual authorisation under Part  7A  (low or no reasonable
expectation of privacy).

;

1.8.b

in subsection (13)—

1.8.b.i

the words from “apply” to the end become paragraph (a);

1.8.b.ii

after that paragraph insert

, or

1.8.b.ii.b

decide to grant an individual authorisation under Part  7A .

##### Low or no reasonable expectation of privacy

2

After Part 7 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 insert—

######### Bulk personal dataset authorisations

########## Low or no reasonable expectation of privacy

########### Bulk personal datasets: low or no reasonable expectation of privacy

2.226A

2.226A.1

This section applies to a bulk personal dataset if the nature of the bulk
personal dataset is such that the individuals to whom the personal data
relates could have no, or only a low, reasonable expectation of privacy in
relation to the data.

2.226A.2

In considering whether this section applies to a bulk personal dataset, regard
must be had to all the circumstances, including in particular the factors in
subsection  (3) .

2.226A.3

Those factors are—

2.226A.3.a

the nature of the data;

2.226A.3.b

the extent to which—

2.226A.3.b.i

the data has been made public by the individuals, or

2.226A.3.b.ii

the individuals have consented to the data being made public;

2.226A.3.c

if the data has been published, the extent to which it was published subject
to editorial control or by a person acting in accordance with professional
standards;

2.226A.3.d

if the data has been published or is otherwise in the public domain, the
extent to which the data is widely known about;

2.226A.3.e

the extent to which the data has already been used in the public domain.

########## Issue of authorisations

########### Individual authorisation

2.226B

2.226B.1

In this Part “an individual authorisation” is an authorisation that authorises
an intelligence service to retain, or to retain and examine, any bulk personal
dataset described in the authorisation.

2.226B.2

See section 200 (requirement for authorisation) for provision about when an
individual authorisation under this Part is required.

2.226B.3

The head of an intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, may
grant an individual authorisation where the conditions in subsections  (4)
and  (5)  are met.

This is subject to subsection  (6) .

2.226B.4

The condition in this subsection is that the person granting the authorisation
considers that—

2.226B.4.a

section  226A  applies to the bulk personal dataset described in the
authorisation,

2.226B.4.b

the authorisation is necessary for the purpose of the exercise of any function
of the intelligence service,

2.226B.4.c

the conduct being authorised is proportionate to what is sought to be achieved
by the conduct, and

2.226B.4.d

there are for the time being in force arrangements made by the intelligence
service, and approved by the Secretary of State, for storing bulk personal
datasets to which section  226A  applies and for protecting them from
unauthorised disclosure.

2.226B.5

The condition in this subsection is that the decision to grant the
authorisation has been approved by a Judicial Commissioner.

2.226B.6

The condition in subsection  (5)  does not apply where—

2.226B.6.a

the bulk personal dataset described in the individual authorisation falls
within a category of bulk personal datasets authorised for the purposes of
this Part by a category authorisation (see section  226BA ), or

2.226B.6.b

the person granting the individual authorisation considers that there is an
urgent need to grant the authorisation.

2.226B.7

But subsection  (6) (a)  does not prevent a person granting an individual
authorisation from seeking the approval of a Judicial Commissioner in a case
where subsection  (6) (a)  applies if the person considers that it would be
appropriate to seek such approval.

2.226B.8

An individual authorisation relating to a bulk personal dataset (“dataset A”)
may also authorise the retention or examination of other bulk personal
datasets (“replacement datasets”) that do not exist at the time of the grant
of the authorisation but may reasonably be regarded as replacements for
dataset A.

########### Category authorisation

2.226BA

2.226BA.1

In this Part “a category authorisation” is an authorisation that authorises a
category of bulk personal datasets described in the authorisation for the
purposes of this Part.

2.226BA.2

The head of an intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, may
grant a category authorisation where—

2.226BA.2.a

they consider that section  226A  applies to any dataset that falls within the
category of datasets described in the authorisation, and

2.226BA.2.b

the decision to grant the authorisation has been approved by a Judicial
Commissioner.

2.226BA.3

A category authorisation may describe a category of bulk personal datasets by
reference to (among other things) the use to which the datasets will be put.

########### Approval of authorisations by Judicial Commissioners

2.226BB

2.226BB.1

In deciding whether to approve a decision to grant an individual authorisation
or a category authorisation, a Judicial Commissioner must review the
conclusions of the person who granted the authorisation as to the following
matters—

2.226BB.1.a

in relation to an individual authorisation, whether section  226A  applies to
the bulk personal dataset described in the authorisation, and

2.226BB.1.b

in relation to a category authorisation, whether section  226A  applies to any
dataset that falls within the category of datasets described in the
authorisation.

2.226BB.2

In doing so, the Judicial Commissioner must—

2.226BB.2.a

apply the same principles as would be applied by a court on an application for
judicial review, and

2.226BB.2.b

consider the matters referred to in subsection  (1)  with a sufficient degree
of care as to ensure that the Judicial Commissioner complies with the duties
imposed by section 2 (general duties in relation to privacy).

2.226BB.3

Where a Judicial Commissioner refuses to approve a decision to grant an
individual authorisation or a category authorisation, the Judicial
Commissioner must give the person who decided to grant the authorisation
written reasons for the refusal.

2.226BB.4

Where a Judicial Commissioner, other than the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner, refuses to approve a decision to grant an individual
authorisation or a category authorisation, the head of the intelligence
service, or a person acting on their behalf, may ask the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner to decide whether to approve the decision to grant the
authorisation.

########### Approval of individual authorisations granted in urgent cases

2.226BC

2.226BC.1

This section applies where—

2.226BC.1.a

an individual authorisation is granted without the approval of a Judicial
Commissioner, and

2.226BC.1.b

the person who granted the authorisation considered that there was an urgent
need to grant it.

2.226BC.2

The person who granted the authorisation must inform a Judicial Commissioner
that it has been granted.

2.226BC.3

The Judicial Commissioner must, before the end of the relevant period—

2.226BC.3.a

decide whether to approve the decision to grant the authorisation, and

2.226BC.3.b

notify the person who granted the authorisation of the Judicial Commissioner’s
decision.

The “ relevant period ” means the period ending with the third working day
after the day on which the authorisation was granted.

2.226BC.4

Subsections  (5)  to  (7)  apply if a Judicial Commissioner refuses to approve
the decision to grant an individual authorisation.

2.226BC.5

The authorisation—

2.226BC.5.a

ceases to have effect (unless already cancelled), and

2.226BC.5.b

may not be renewed,

and section  226BB (4)  does not apply in relation to the refusal to approve
the decision.

2.226BC.6

The head of the intelligence service must, so far as is reasonably
practicable, secure that anything in the process of being done in reliance on
the authorisation stops as soon as possible.

2.226BC.7

Section 220 (Part 7 initial examinations: time limits) applies in relation to
the bulk personal dataset described in the authorisation as if the
intelligence service had obtained that dataset at the time when the person who
granted the authorisation is notified that the Judicial Commissioner has
refused to approve the decision to grant the authorisation.

2.226BC.8

Nothing in subsection  (5)  or  (6)  affects the lawfulness of—

2.226BC.8.a

anything done in reliance on the authorisation before it ceases to have
effect;

2.226BC.8.b

if anything is in the process of being done in reliance on the authorisation
when it ceases to have effect—

2.226BC.8.b.i

anything done before that thing could be stopped, or

2.226BC.8.b.ii

anything done that it is not reasonably practicable to stop.

########## Duration, renewal and cancellation

########### Duration of authorisation

2.226C

2.226C.1

An individual authorisation or a category authorisation ceases to have effect
at the end of the relevant period unless—

2.226C.1.a

it is renewed before the end of that period (see section  226CA ), or

2.226C.1.b

it is cancelled or otherwise ceases to have effect before the end of that
period (see sections  226BC ,  226CB , and  226CD ).

2.226C.2

In this section the “relevant period”—

2.226C.2.a

in the case of an urgent individual authorisation, means the period ending
with the fifth working day after the day on which the authorisation was
granted;

2.226C.2.b

in any other case, means the period of 12 months beginning with—

2.226C.2.b.i

the day on which the authorisation was granted, or

2.226C.2.b.ii

in the case of an authorisation that has been renewed, the day after the day
at the end of which the authorisation would have ceased to have effect if it
had not been renewed.

2.226C.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (a) , an individual authorisation is an
“urgent individual authorisation” if—

2.226C.3.a

the authorisation was granted without the approval of a Judicial Commissioner,
and

2.226C.3.b

the person who granted the authorisation considered that there was an urgent
need to grant it.

########### Renewal of authorisation

2.226CA

2.226CA.1

If the renewal conditions are met for an individual authorisation or a
category authorisation, the head of an intelligence service, or a person
acting on their behalf, may, at any time during the renewal period, renew the
authorisation.

2.226CA.2

The renewal conditions for an individual authorisation are that—

2.226CA.2.a

the person renewing the authorisation considers that—

2.226CA.2.a.i

section  226A  continues to apply to the bulk personal dataset described in
the authorisation,

2.226CA.2.a.ii

the authorisation continues to be necessary for the purpose of the exercise of
any function of the intelligence service,

2.226CA.2.a.iii

the conduct being authorised continues to be proportionate to what is sought
to be achieved by the conduct, and

2.226CA.2.a.iv

there are for the time being in force arrangements made by the intelligence
service, and approved by the Secretary of State, for storing bulk personal
datasets to which section  226A  applies and for protecting them from
unauthorised disclosure, and

2.226CA.2.b

the decision to renew the authorisation has been approved by a Judicial
Commissioner.

2.226CA.3

But the condition in subsection  (2) (b)  does not apply where the bulk
personal dataset described in the individual authorisation falls within a
category of bulk personal datasets authorised for the purposes of this Part by
a category authorisation.

2.226CA.4

The renewal conditions for a category authorisation are that—

2.226CA.4.a

the person renewing the authorisation considers that section  226A  continues
to apply to any dataset that falls within the category of datasets described
in the authorisation, and

2.226CA.4.b

the decision to renew the authorisation has been approved by a Judicial
Commissioner.

2.226CA.5

In this section the “ renewal period ” means—

2.226CA.5.a

in the case of an urgent individual authorisation which has not been renewed,
the relevant period;

2.226CA.5.b

in the case of an individual authorisation to which section  226CD  (non-
renewal or cancellation of category authorisation) applies, the period of
three months ending with the day at the end of which the authorisation would
otherwise cease to have effect;

2.226CA.5.c

in any other case, the period of 30 days ending with the day at the end of
which the authorisation would otherwise cease to have effect.

2.226CA.6

Section  226BB  (approval of authorisations by Judicial Commissioner) applies
in relation to a decision to renew an authorisation under this section as it
applies in relation to a decision to grant an authorisation under this Part.

2.226CA.7

In this section—

      “ the relevant period ” has the same meaning as in section  226C ;
“ urgent individual authorisation ” is to be read in accordance with
subsection  (3)  of that section.

########### Cancellation of authorisation

2.226CB

2.226CB.1

The head of an intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, may,
at any time, cancel an individual authorisation or a category authorisation.

2.226CB.2

If the head of an intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
considers that any of the cancellation conditions are met in relation to an
individual authorisation, or that the cancellation condition is met in
relation to a category authorisation, they must cancel the authorisation.

2.226CB.3

The cancellation conditions for an individual authorisation are—

2.226CB.3.a

that section  226A  no longer applies to the dataset described in the
authorisation;

2.226CB.3.b

that the authorisation is no longer necessary for the purpose of the exercise
of any function of the intelligence service;

2.226CB.3.c

that the conduct authorised by the authorisation is no longer proportionate to
what is sought to be achieved by the conduct;

2.226CB.3.d

that there are no longer in force arrangements made by the intelligence
service, and approved by the Secretary of State, for storing bulk personal
datasets to which section  226A  applies and for protecting them from
unauthorised disclosure.

2.226CB.4

The cancellation condition for a category authorisation is that section  226A
no longer applies to any dataset that falls within the category of datasets
described in the authorisation.

########### Non-renewal or cancellation of individual authorisation

2.226CC

2.226CC.1

This section applies where an individual authorisation ceases to have effect
because it expires without having been renewed or because it is cancelled.

2.226CC.2

The head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, may,
before the end of the period of 5 working days beginning with the day on which
the authorisation ceases to have effect, decide to grant a new individual
authorisation (see section  226B ) to retain, or to retain and examine, any
material retained by the intelligence service in reliance on the authorisation
which has ceased to have effect.

2.226CC.3

Where an individual authorisation ceases to have effect because it expires
without having been renewed or because it is cancelled, an intelligence
service is not to be regarded as in breach of section 200(1) or (2) by virtue
of its retention or examination of any material to which the authorisation
related during the following periods—

2.226CC.3.a

the period of 5 working days beginning with the day on which the authorisation
ceases to have effect;

2.226CC.3.b

if the head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
decides to grant a new individual authorisation as mentioned in subsection
(2) , any period when a Judicial Commissioner is deciding whether to approve
the decision.

########### Non-renewal or cancellation of category authorisation

2.226CD

2.226CD.1

This section applies where—

2.226CD.1.a

a category authorisation ceases to have effect because it expires without
having been renewed or because it is cancelled, and

2.226CD.1.b

an individual authorisation describing a bulk personal dataset that falls
within the category of datasets described in the category authorisation has
been granted without the approval of a Judicial Commissioner in accordance
with section  226B (6) (a) .

2.226CD.2

The individual authorisation ceases to have effect at the end of the relevant
period unless—

2.226CD.2.a

it is renewed before the end of that period, or

2.226CD.2.b

it is cancelled or otherwise ceases to have effect before the end of that
period.

2.226CD.3

In this section the “ relevant period ” means the period of three months
beginning with the day after the day at the end of which the category
authorisation ceased to have effect.

########## Further and supplementary provision

########### Section 

2.226D

2.226D.1

Subsections  (2)  to  (4)  apply where—

2.226D.1.a

an individual authorisation is granted under this Part in relation to any bulk
personal dataset, and

2.226D.1.b

in the course of examining the dataset in accordance with the authorisation,
the head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
believes that section  226A  does not apply, or no longer applies, to part of
the dataset.

2.226D.2

The head of the intelligence service must, so far as is reasonably
practicable, secure that anything in the process of being done in relation to
that part of the bulk personal dataset in reliance on the authorisation stops
as soon as possible.

2.226D.3

Section 220 (Part 7 initial examinations: time limits) applies in relation to
that part of the bulk personal dataset as if the intelligence service had
obtained that part of the dataset at the time when the head of the
intelligence service, or the person acting on their behalf, first formed the
beliefs mentioned in subsection  (1) (b) .

2.226D.4

The individual authorisation in relation to that part of the bulk personal
dataset is to be treated as if it had been cancelled under section  226CB  at
that time.

2.226D.5

Nothing in this section affects the lawfulness of—

2.226D.5.a

anything done in reliance on the authorisation before it ceases to have
effect;

2.226D.5.b

if anything is in the process of being done in reliance on the authorisation
when it ceases to have effect—

2.226D.5.b.i

anything done before that thing could be stopped, or

2.226D.5.b.ii

anything done that it is not reasonably practicable to stop.

########### Annual report

2.226DA

2.226DA.1

The head of each intelligence service must provide an annual report to the
Secretary of State about the bulk personal datasets that were authorised under
this Part to be retained, or retained and examined, by the intelligence
service during the period to which the report relates.

2.226DA.2

The first report must relate to a period of at least one year and no more than
two years, beginning with the day on which this Part comes fully into force.

2.226DA.3

Subsequent reports must relate to a period of no more than one year, beginning
with the end of the period to which the previous report related.

2.226DA.4

Each report must be provided to the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably
practicable after the end of the period to which the report relates.

########### Report to Intelligence and Security Committee

2.226DB

2.226DB.1

The Secretary of State must for each relevant period provide to the
Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament a report setting out
information about category authorisations and renewals of category
authorisations granted in that period.

2.226DB.2

In  subsection (1)  “ relevant period ” means—

2.226DB.2.a

a period of at least one year and no more than two years beginning with the
date on which this Part comes fully into force, and

2.226DB.2.b

subsequent periods of no more than one year, beginning with the end of the
period to which the previous report related.

2.226DB.3

Each report must be provided to the Committee as soon as reasonably
practicable after the end of the period to which the report relates.

########### Part 

2.226DC

2.226DC.1

In this Part—

      “ category authorisation ” has the meaning given by section  226BA (1) ;
“ individual authorisation ” has the meaning given by section  226B (1) .

2.226DC.2

See also—

      section 199 (bulk personal datasets: interpretation),           section
263 (general definitions),           section 265 (index of defined
expressions).

2.226DC.3

For the purposes of this Part, only a person holding office under the Crown
may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

#### Bulk personal dataset warrants

##### Duration of bulk personal dataset warrants

3

3.1

In section 213 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (duration of warrants), in
subsection (2)(b), for “6 months” substitute  “12 months” .

3.2

The amendment made by subsection  (1)  has effect only in relation to a
warrant that is issued or renewed under Part 7 of that Act on or after the day
on which this section comes into force.

3.3

In subsection  (2)  “ warrant ” has the same meaning as in section 213(2)(b)
of that Act.

##### Agency head functions

4

4.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 202 (restriction on use of class BPD warrants)—

4.2.a

in subsections (1) and (2), after “head of the intelligence service” insert
“, or a person acting on their behalf,” ;

4.2.b

in subsection (3)—

4.2.b.i

after “head of the intelligence service”, in the first place it occurs, insert
“, or a person acting on their behalf,” ;

4.2.b.ii

omit “by the head of the intelligence service”;

4.2.c

after subsection (4) insert—

4.2.c.5

For the purposes of subsections (1), (2) and (3), only a person holding office
under the Crown may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

4.3

In section 206 (additional safeguards for health records)—

4.3.a

in subsections (4)(b) and (5)(a) and (b), after “head of the intelligence
service” insert  “, or a person acting on their behalf,” ;

4.3.b

after subsection (7) insert—

4.3.b.8

For the purposes of subsections (4)(b) and (5), only a person holding office
under the Crown may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

4.4

In section 219 (non-renewal or cancellation of BPD warrants)—

4.4.a

in subsection (2), after “addressed” insert  “, or a person acting on their
behalf,” ;

4.4.b

in the following provisions, after “the head of the intelligence service”
insert  “, or a person acting on their behalf,” —

4.4.b.i

subsection (2)(b);

4.4.b.ii

subsection (7), in both places it occurs;

4.4.b.iii

subsection (8), in both places it occurs;

4.4.c

after subsection (8) insert—

4.4.c.9

For the purposes of subsections (2), (7) and (8), only a person holding office
under the Crown may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

4.5

In section 220 (initial examinations: time limits)—

4.5.a

in the following provisions, after “head of the intelligence service” insert
“, or a person acting on their behalf,” —

4.5.a.i

subsection (1)(b);

4.5.a.ii

subsection (2);

4.5.a.iii

subsection (3);

4.5.a.iv

subsection (5);

4.5.b

after subsection (6) (inserted by section  1 ) insert—

4.5.b.7

For the purposes of this section, only a person holding office under the Crown
may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

4.6

In section 225 (application of Part 7 to bulk personal datasets obtained under
this Act)—

4.6.a

in subsection (3), after “head of the intelligence service” insert  “, or a
person acting on their behalf” ;

4.6.b

in subsection (13), after “head of an intelligence service” insert  “, or a
person acting on their behalf,” ;

4.6.c

after subsection (14) insert—

4.6.c.15

For the purposes of subsections (3) and (13), only a person holding office
under the Crown may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

#### Third party bulk personal datasets

##### Third party bulk personal datasets

5

After Part  7A  of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (as inserted by section
2 ) insert—

######### Third party bulk personal datasets

########## Interpretation

########### Third party bulk personal datasets: interpretation

5.226E

5.226E.1

For the purposes of this Part, an intelligence service examines a third party
bulk personal dataset if—

5.226E.1.a

the intelligence service has relevant access, whether on payment or otherwise,
to a set of information that is held electronically by a person other than an
intelligence service,

5.226E.1.b

the set includes personal data relating to a number of individuals,

5.226E.1.c

the nature of the set is such that the majority of the individuals are not,
and are unlikely to become, of interest to the intelligence service in the
exercise of its functions, and

5.226E.1.d

after any initial inspection of the contents (see section  226I ), the
intelligence service examines the set electronically (but does not obtain the
set) for the purpose of the exercise of its functions.

5.226E.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (a) , an intelligence service has
“relevant access” to a set of information that is held electronically by
another person where—

5.226E.2.a

the access is made available to the intelligence service as a result of
arrangements made directly between the intelligence service and that other
person,

5.226E.2.b

the type and extent of the access available to the intelligence service is not
generally available (whether on a commercial basis or otherwise), and

5.226E.2.c

the access is electronic.

########## Requirement for warrant

########### Requirement for authorisation by warrant

5.226F

5.226F.1

An intelligence service may not exercise a power to examine a third party bulk
personal dataset unless the examination of the dataset is authorised by a
third party BPD warrant.

5.226F.2

A “third party BPD warrant” is a warrant issued under this Part authorising an
intelligence service to examine any third party bulk personal dataset
described in the warrant.

5.226F.3

A third party BPD warrant may authorise the examination of a bulk personal
dataset—

5.226F.3.a

the content of which may vary from time to time, or

5.226F.3.b

that does not exist at the time of the issue of the warrant.

########### Exceptions to section 

5.226FA

5.226FA.1

Section  226F (1)  does not apply to the exercise of a power of an
intelligence service to examine a third party bulk personal dataset if the
intelligence service examines the bulk personal dataset under any other
warrant or authorisation issued or given under this Act.

5.226FA.2

See section  226I (5)  (initial inspection) for a further exception to  226F
(1) .

########## Issue of warrants

########### Application for third party BPD warrant

5.226G

5.226G.1

The head of an intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, may
apply to the Secretary of State for a third party BPD warrant.

5.226G.2

The application must include a general description of the bulk personal
dataset (or datasets) to which the application relates.

5.226G.3

Where the person making the application knows that subsection  (6)  applies to
any bulk personal dataset to which the application relates, the application
must also include a statement to that effect.

5.226G.4

The Secretary of State may issue the warrant if—

5.226G.4.a

the Secretary of State considers that the warrant is necessary—

5.226G.4.a.i

in the interests of national security,

5.226G.4.a.ii

for the purposes of preventing or detecting serious crime, or

5.226G.4.a.iii

in the interests of the economic well-being of the United Kingdom so far as
those interests are also relevant to the interests of national security,

5.226G.4.b

the Secretary of State considers that the conduct authorised by the warrant is
proportionate to what is sought to be achieved by the conduct,

5.226G.4.c

the Secretary of State considers that the arrangements made by the
intelligence service for examining the bulk personal dataset (or datasets) to
which the application relates are satisfactory, and

5.226G.4.d

except where the Secretary of State considers that there is an urgent need to
issue the warrant, the decision to issue the warrant has been approved by a
Judicial Commissioner.

5.226G.5

The fact that a third party BPD warrant would authorise the examination of
bulk personal datasets relating to activities in the British Islands of a
trade union is not, of itself, sufficient to establish that the warrant is
necessary on grounds falling within subsection  (4) (a) .

5.226G.6

This subsection applies to a bulk personal dataset if—

5.226G.6.a

the dataset consists of, or includes, protected data or health records,

5.226G.6.b

a substantial proportion of the dataset consists of sensitive personal data,
or

5.226G.6.c

the nature of the dataset, or the circumstances in which it was created, is or
are such that its examination by the intelligence service is likely to raise
novel or contentious issues.

5.226G.7

In this section—

      “ health record ” means a record, or a copy of a record which—
consists of information relating to the physical or mental health or condition
of an individual,           was made by or on behalf of a health professional
in connection with the care of that individual, and           was obtained, by
the person (mentioned in section  226E (1) (a) ) who holds the dataset, from a
health professional or a health service body or from a person acting on behalf
of a health professional or a health service body in relation to the record or
the copy;                 “ sensitive personal data ” has the meaning given by
section 202(4).

5.226G.8

In subsection  (7) , “health professional” and “health service body” have the
meaning given by section 206(7).

5.226G.9

An application for a third party BPD warrant may only be made on behalf of the
head of an intelligence service by a person holding office under the Crown.

########### Approval of warrants by Judicial Commissioners

5.226GA

5.226GA.1

In deciding whether to approve a decision to issue a third party BPD warrant,
a Judicial Commissioner must review the Secretary of State’s conclusions as to
the following matters—

5.226GA.1.a

whether the warrant is necessary on grounds falling within section  226G (4)
(a) , and

5.226GA.1.b

whether the conduct that would be authorised by the warrant is proportionate
to what is sought to be achieved by that conduct.

5.226GA.2

In doing so, the Judicial Commissioner must—

5.226GA.2.a

apply the same principles as would be applied by a court on an application for
judicial review, and

5.226GA.2.b

consider the matters referred to in subsection  (1)  with a sufficient degree
of care as to ensure that the Judicial Commissioner complies with the duties
imposed by section 2 (general duties in relation to privacy).

5.226GA.3

Where a Judicial Commissioner refuses to approve a decision to issue a third
party BPD warrant, the Judicial Commissioner must give the Secretary of State
written reasons for the refusal.

5.226GA.4

Where a Judicial Commissioner, other than the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner, refuses to approve a decision to issue a third party BPD
warrant, the Secretary of State may ask the Investigatory Powers Commissioner
to decide whether to approve the decision to issue the warrant.

########### Approval of third party BPD warrants issued in urgent cases

5.226GB

5.226GB.1

This section applies where—

5.226GB.1.a

a third party BPD warrant is issued without the approval of a Judicial
Commissioner, and

5.226GB.1.b

the Secretary of State considered that there was an urgent need to issue it.

5.226GB.2

The Secretary of State must inform a Judicial Commissioner that it has been
issued.

5.226GB.3

The Judicial Commissioner must, before the end of the relevant period—

5.226GB.3.a

decide whether to approve the decision to issue the warrant, and

5.226GB.3.b

notify the Secretary of State of the Judicial Commissioner’s decision.

The “ relevant period ” means the period ending with the third working day
after the day on which the warrant was issued.

5.226GB.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply if a Judicial Commissioner refuses to
approve the decision to issue a third party BPD warrant.

5.226GB.5

The warrant—

5.226GB.5.a

ceases to have effect (unless already cancelled), and

5.226GB.5.b

may not be renewed,

and section  226GA (4)  does not apply in relation to the refusal to approve
the decision.

5.226GB.6

The head of the intelligence service to whom the warrant was addressed must,
so far as is reasonably practicable, secure that anything in the process of
being done in reliance on the warrant stops as soon as possible.

5.226GB.7

Nothing in subsection  (5)  or  (6)  affects the lawfulness of—

5.226GB.7.a

anything done in reliance on the warrant before it ceases to have effect;

5.226GB.7.b

if anything is in the process of being done in reliance on the warrant when it
ceases to have effect—

5.226GB.7.b.i

anything done before that thing could be stopped, or

5.226GB.7.b.ii

anything done that it is not reasonably practicable to stop.

########### Decisions to issue warrants to be taken personally by Secretary of State

5.226GC

5.226GC.1

The decision to issue a third party BPD warrant must be taken personally by
the Secretary of State.

5.226GC.2

Before a third party BPD warrant is issued, it must be signed by the Secretary
of State.

5.226GC.3

But if it is not reasonably practicable for a third party BPD warrant to be
signed by the Secretary of State, it may be signed by a senior official
designated by the Secretary of State for that purpose.

5.226GC.4

In such a case, the warrant must contain a statement that—

5.226GC.4.a

it is not reasonably practicable for the warrant to be signed by the Secretary
of State, and

5.226GC.4.b

the Secretary of State has personally and expressly authorised the issue of
the warrant.

########### Requirements that must be met by warrants

5.226GD

A third party BPD warrant must—

5.226GD.a

be addressed to the head of the intelligence service by whom, or on whose
behalf, the application for the warrant was made, and

5.226GD.b

include a general description of the bulk personal dataset (or datasets) to
which the warrant relates.

########## Duration, renewal and cancellation

########### Duration of warrants

5.226H

5.226H.1

A third party BPD warrant ceases to have effect at the end of the relevant
period unless—

5.226H.1.a

it is renewed before the end of that period (see section  226HA ), or

5.226H.1.b

it is cancelled or otherwise ceases to have effect before the end of that
period (see sections  226GB  and  226HB ).

5.226H.2

In this section “the relevant period”—

5.226H.2.a

in the case of an urgent third party BPD warrant, means the period ending with
the fifth working day after the day on which the warrant was issued, and

5.226H.2.b

in any other case, means the period of 12 months beginning with—

5.226H.2.b.i

the day on which the warrant was issued, or

5.226H.2.b.ii

in the case of a warrant that has been renewed, the day after the day at the
end of which the warrant would have ceased to have effect if it had not been
renewed.

5.226H.3

For the purposes of this section, a third party BPD warrant is an “urgent
third party BPD warrant” if—

5.226H.3.a

the warrant was issued without the approval of a Judicial Commissioner, and

5.226H.3.b

the Secretary of State considered that there was an urgent need to issue it.

########### Renewal of warrants

5.226HA

5.226HA.1

If the renewal conditions are met, a third party BPD warrant may be renewed,
at any time during the renewal period, by an instrument issued by the
Secretary of State.

5.226HA.2

The renewal conditions are—

5.226HA.2.a

that the Secretary of State considers that the warrant continues to be
necessary on grounds falling within section  226G (4) (a) ,

5.226HA.2.b

that the Secretary of State considers that the conduct that would be
authorised by the renewed warrant continues to be proportionate to what is
sought to be achieved by the conduct, and

5.226HA.2.c

that the decision to renew the warrant has been approved by a Judicial
Commissioner.

5.226HA.3

In this section the “ renewal period ” means—

5.226HA.3.a

in the case of an urgent third party BPD warrant which has not been renewed,
the relevant period;

5.226HA.3.b

in any other case, the period of 30 days ending with the day at the end of
which the warrant would otherwise cease to have effect.

5.226HA.4

The decision to renew a third party BPD warrant must be taken personally by
the Secretary of State, and the instrument renewing the warrant must be signed
by the Secretary of State.

5.226HA.5

Section  226GA  (approval of warrants by Judicial Commissioner) applies in
relation to a decision to renew a warrant as it applies in relation to a
decision to issue a warrant.

5.226HA.6

In this section—

      “ the relevant period ” has the same meaning as in section  226H ;
“ urgent third party BPD warrant ” is to be read in accordance with subsection
(3)  of that section.

########### Cancellation of warrants

5.226HB

5.226HB.1

The Secretary of State, or a senior official acting on behalf of the Secretary
of State, may cancel a third party BPD warrant at any time.

5.226HB.2

If the Secretary of State, or a senior official acting on behalf of the
Secretary of State, considers that any of the cancellation conditions are met
in relation to a third party BPD warrant, the person must cancel the warrant.

5.226HB.3

The cancellation conditions are—

5.226HB.3.a

that the warrant is no longer necessary on any grounds falling within section
226G (4) (a) ;

5.226HB.3.b

that the conduct authorised by the warrant is no longer proportionate to what
is sought to be achieved by that conduct.

########### Non-renewal or cancellation of third party BPD warrant

5.226HC

5.226HC.1

This section applies where a third party BPD warrant ceases to have effect
because it expires without having been renewed or because it is cancelled.

5.226HC.2

The head of the intelligence service to whom the warrant was addressed must,
so far as is reasonably practicable, secure that anything in the process of
being done in reliance on the warrant stops as soon as possible.

5.226HC.3

Nothing in this section affects the lawfulness of—

5.226HC.3.a

anything done in reliance on the warrant before it ceases to have effect;

5.226HC.3.b

if anything is in the process of being done in reliance on the warrant when it
ceases to have effect—

5.226HC.3.b.i

anything done before that thing could be stopped, or

5.226HC.3.b.ii

anything done that it is not reasonably practicable to stop.

########## Further and supplementary provision

########### Initial inspection

5.226I

5.226I.1

This section applies where—

5.226I.1.a

an intelligence service has relevant access, whether on payment or otherwise,
to a set of information that is held electronically by a person other than an
intelligence service,

5.226I.1.b

the intelligence service is considering examining the set of information
electronically for the purpose of the exercise of its functions,

5.226I.1.c

the examination would be otherwise than in the exercise of a power conferred
by a warrant or other authorisation issued or given under this Act, and

5.226I.1.d

the head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
believes that—

5.226I.1.d.i

the set includes, or may include, personal data relating to a number of
individuals, and

5.226I.1.d.ii

the nature of the set is, or may be, such that the majority of the individuals
are not, and are unlikely to become, of interest to the intelligence service
in the exercise of its functions.

5.226I.2

The head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, may
carry out an initial inspection of the contents of the set for the purpose of
deciding whether, if the intelligence service were to examine it after that
initial inspection—

5.226I.2.a

the intelligence service would be examining a third party bulk personal
dataset (see section  226E ), and

5.226I.2.b

such examination would be necessary and proportionate in all the
circumstances.

5.226I.3

Subsection  (4)  applies if, after the initial inspection is carried out, the
head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf, decides
that—

5.226I.3.a

the intelligence service would be examining a third party bulk personal
dataset (as mentioned in subsection  (2) (a) ), and

5.226I.3.b

such examination would be necessary and proportionate in all the
circumstances.

5.226I.4

The head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
must—

5.226I.4.a

decide whether to examine the third party bulk personal dataset, and

5.226I.4.b

if they decide to do so, apply for a third party BPD warrant.

5.226I.5

If the head of the intelligence service, or a person acting on their behalf,
applies for such a third party BPD warrant, the intelligence service is not to
be regarded as in breach of section  226F (1)  by virtue of examining the bulk
personal dataset if the examination is necessary for the purposes of the
making of the application for the warrant.

5.226I.6

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (a) , “ relevant access ” is to be read in
accordance with section  226E (2) .

5.226I.7

For the purposes of this section, only a person holding office under the Crown
may act on behalf of the head of an intelligence service.

########### Safeguards relating to examination of third party bulk personal datasets

5.226IA

5.226IA.1

The Secretary of State must ensure, in relation to every third party BPD
warrant which authorises the examination of a bulk personal dataset, that
arrangements are in force for securing that any examination of data contained
in the dataset is necessary and proportionate in all the circumstances.

5.226IA.2

In doing so, the Secretary of State must in particular have regard to the
information that is reasonably available to the intelligence services in
relation to the examination of such data.

########### Additional safeguards for items subject to legal privilege: examination

5.226IB

5.226IB.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply if, in a case where protected data contained
in a third party bulk personal dataset is to be examined in reliance on a
third party BPD warrant—

5.226IB.1.a

the purpose, or one of the purposes, of using the criteria to be used for the
examination of the data (“the relevant criteria”) is to identify any items
subject to legal privilege, or

5.226IB.1.b

the use of the relevant criteria is likely to identify such items.

5.226IB.2

If the relevant criteria are referable to an individual known to be in the
British Islands at the time of the examination, the data may be examined using
the relevant criteria only if the Secretary of State has approved the use of
those criteria.

5.226IB.3

In any other case, the data may be examined using the relevant criteria only
if a senior official acting on behalf of the Secretary of State has approved
the use of those criteria.

5.226IB.4

The Secretary of State may give approval for the purposes of subsection  (2)
only with the approval of a Judicial Commissioner.

5.226IB.5

Approval may be given under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  only if, where
subsection  (1) (a)  applies, the Secretary of State or (as the case may be)
the senior official considers that there are exceptional and compelling
circumstances that make it necessary to authorise the use of the relevant
criteria.

5.226IB.6

In deciding whether to give an approval under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  in a
case where subsection  (1) (a)  applies, the Secretary of State or (as the
case may be) the senior official must have regard to the public interest in
the confidentiality of items subject to legal privilege.

5.226IB.7

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , there cannot be exceptional and
compelling circumstances that make it necessary to authorise the use of the
relevant criteria unless—

5.226IB.7.a

the public interest in obtaining the information that would be obtained by the
examination of the data outweighs the public interest in the confidentiality
of items subject to legal privilege,

5.226IB.7.b

there are no other means by which the information may reasonably be obtained,
and

5.226IB.7.c

obtaining the information is necessary in the interests of national security
or for the purpose of preventing death or significant injury.

5.226IB.8

In deciding whether to give approval for the purposes of subsection  (4) , the
Judicial Commissioner must—

5.226IB.8.a

apply the same principles as would be applied by a court on an application for
judicial review, and

5.226IB.8.b

consider the matter with a sufficient degree of care as to ensure that the
Judicial Commissioner complies with the duties imposed by section 2 (general
duties in relation to privacy).

5.226IB.9

Subsections  (10)  and  (11)  apply if, in a case where protected data
contained in a third party bulk personal dataset is to be examined in reliance
on a third party BPD warrant—

5.226IB.9.a

the purpose, or one of the purposes, of using the criteria to be used for the
examination of the data (“the relevant criteria”) is to identify data that, if
the data or any underlying material were not created or held with the
intention of furthering a criminal purpose, would be an item subject to legal
privilege, and

5.226IB.9.b

the person to whom the warrant is addressed considers that the data (“the
targeted data”) or any underlying material is likely to be data or underlying
material created or held with the intention of furthering a criminal purpose.

5.226IB.10

If the relevant criteria are referable to an individual known to be in the
British Islands at the time of the examination, the data may be examined using
the relevant criteria only if the Secretary of State has approved the use of
those criteria.

5.226IB.11

In any other case, the data may be examined using the relevant criteria only
if a senior official acting on behalf of the Secretary of State has approved
the use of those criteria.

5.226IB.12

Approval may be given under subsection  (10)  or  (11)  only if the Secretary
of State or (as the case may be) the senior official considers that the
targeted data or the underlying material is likely to be data or underlying
material created or held with the intention of furthering a criminal purpose.

5.226IB.13

In this section “ underlying material ”, in relation to data contained in a
third party bulk personal dataset that is to be examined in reliance on a
third party BPD warrant, means any communications or other items of
information from which the data was produced.

########### Additional safeguards for items subject to legal privilege: retention following examination

5.226IC

5.226IC.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where—

5.226IC.1.a

an intelligence service examines a third party bulk personal dataset in
reliance on a third party BPD warrant,

5.226IC.1.b

as part of the examination, the intelligence service examines an item subject
to legal privilege,

5.226IC.1.c

the intelligence service retains the item, and

5.226IC.1.d

the retention of the item may not be authorised by a warrant under Part 7
(bulk personal dataset warrants).

5.226IC.2

The person to whom the third party BPD warrant (mentioned in subsection  (1)
(a) ) is addressed must inform the Investigatory Powers Commissioner as soon
as reasonably practicable after retaining the item.

5.226IC.3

Unless the Investigatory Powers Commissioner considers that subsection  (5)
applies to the item, the Commissioner must—

5.226IC.3.a

direct that the item is destroyed, or

5.226IC.3.b

impose one or more conditions as to the use or retention of that item.

5.226IC.4

If the Investigatory Powers Commissioner considers that subsection  (5)
applies to the item, the Commissioner may nevertheless impose such conditions
under subsection  (3) (b)  as the Commissioner considers necessary for the
purpose of protecting the public interest in the confidentiality of items
subject to legal privilege.

5.226IC.5

This subsection applies to an item subject to legal privilege if—

5.226IC.5.a

the public interest in retaining the item outweighs the public interest in the
confidentiality of items subject to legal privilege, and

5.226IC.5.b

retaining the item is necessary in the interests of national security or for
the purpose of preventing death or significant injury.

5.226IC.6

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner—

5.226IC.6.a

may require an affected party to make representations about how the
Commissioner should exercise any function under subsection  (3) , and

5.226IC.6.b

must have regard to any such representations made by an affected party
(whether or not as a result of a requirement imposed under paragraph  (a) ).

5.226IC.7

Each of the following is an “ affected party ” for the purposes of subsection
(6) —

5.226IC.7.a

the Secretary of State;

5.226IC.7.b

the person to whom the third party BPD warrant is or was addressed.

########### Offence of breaching safeguards relating to examination of material

5.226ID

5.226ID.1

A person commits an offence if—

5.226ID.1.a

the person examines, in reliance on a third party BPD warrant, any data
contained in a third party bulk personal dataset,

5.226ID.1.b

the person knows or believes that the examination of that data is in breach of
the requirement specified in subsection  (2) , and

5.226ID.1.c

the person deliberately examines that data in breach of that requirement.

5.226ID.2

The requirement specified in this subsection is that any examination of the
data is necessary and proportionate.

5.226ID.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

5.226ID.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court, to a fine or to both;

5.226ID.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both;

5.226ID.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both;

5.226ID.3.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years,
to a fine or to both.

5.226ID.4

No proceedings for any offence which is an offence by virtue of this section
may be instituted—

5.226ID.4.a

in England and Wales, except by or with the consent of the Director of Public
Prosecutions;

5.226ID.4.b

in Northern Ireland, except by or with the consent of the Director of Public
Prosecutions for Northern Ireland.

########### Part 

5.226IE

5.226IE.1

In this Part—

      “ personal data ” has the same meaning as in Part 7 (see section
199(2));           “ protected data ” has the same meaning as in Part 7 (see
section 203);           “ senior official ” means a member of the Senior Civil
Service or a member of the Senior Management Structure of His Majesty’s
Diplomatic Service;           “ third party BPD warrant ” has the meaning
given by section  226F .

5.226IE.3

See also—

      section 263 (general definitions),           section 265 (index of
defined expressions).

#### Minor and consequential amendments

##### Minor and consequential amendments

6

6.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (4) .

6.2

In section 1 (overview of Act), in subsection (6)—

6.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “Parts 2 to 7” substitute  “Parts 2 to
7B ” ;

6.2.b

in paragraph (e)—

6.2.b.i

for “Part 7 deals” substitute  “Parts 7 to  7B  deal” ;

6.2.b.ii

after “warrants” insert  “and authorisations” .

6.3

In section 2 (general duties in relation to privacy), in subsection (1)—

6.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “or 7” substitute  “, 7 or  7B ” ;

6.3.b

omit the “or” after paragraph (j);

6.3.c

after that paragraph insert—

6.3.c.ja

to grant, renew or cancel an authorisation under Part  7A ,

6.3.c.jb

to approve a decision to grant or renew such an authorisation, or

;

6.3.d

in paragraph (k), for “or (i)” substitute  “, (i) or  (ja) ” .

6.4

In section 229 (main oversight functions), in subsection (9), in the
definition of “bulk personal dataset”, after “199” insert  “(and includes a
third party bulk personal dataset (see section  226E ))” .

6.5

Section 65 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (the Tribunal)
is amended as follows.

6.6

In subsection (5)—

6.6.a

after paragraph (czh) insert—

6.6.a.czha

the granting or renewal of an authorisation under Part  7A  of that Act (low
or no expectation of privacy bulk personal datasets);

6.6.a.czhb

the issue, renewal or service of a warrant under Part  7B  of that Act (third
party bulk personal datasets);

;

6.6.b

in paragraph (czl)(i)—

6.6.b.i

for “or 7” substitute  “, 7 or  7B ” ;

6.6.b.ii

after “Part 3” insert  “or  7A ” .

6.7

In subsection (7ZB), after “(czh)” insert  “,  (czha) ,  (czhb) ” .

6.8

In subsection (8)—

6.8.a

in paragraph (a), for “or 7” substitute  “, 7 or  7B ” ;

6.8.b

after paragraph (bb) insert—

6.8.b.bba

an authorisation under Part  7A  of that Act;

.

### Oversight arrangements

#### Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioners

7

7.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 227 (Investigatory Powers Commissioner and other Judicial
Commissioners), after subsection (6) insert—

7.2.6A

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner may appoint up to two persons who are
Judicial Commissioners to be Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioners.

7.2.6B

A person appointed as a Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner continues to
be a Judicial Commissioner.

7.3

In section 228 (terms and conditions of appointment), after subsection (5)
insert—

7.3.6

A person ceases to be a Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner if—

7.3.6.a

the person ceases to be a Judicial Commissioner,

7.3.6.b

the Investigatory Powers Commissioner removes the person from being a Deputy
Investigatory Powers Commissioner, or

7.3.6.c

the person resigns as a Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner.

7.4

In section 263(1) (general definitions), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner ” means a person appointed
under section 227 (6A)  (and the expression is also to be read in accordance
with section 227(13) (b) ),

.

7.5

In section 265 (index of defined expressions), in the table, at the
appropriate place insert—

      Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner Section 263(1)

.

#### Delegation of functions

8

8.1

Section 227 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (Investigatory Powers
Commissioner and other Judicial Commissioners) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

8.2

For subsections (8) and (9) substitute—

8.2.8

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner may, to such extent as the Investigatory
Powers Commissioner may decide, delegate the exercise of functions of the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner to—

8.2.8.a

a Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner, or

8.2.8.b

any other Judicial Commissioner.

This is subject to subsections  (8A)  to  (8C) .

8.2.8A

Subsection  (8) (a)  applies to the function of the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner of—

8.2.8A.a

making a recommendation under subsection (4)(e),

8.2.8A.b

deciding under section 90(11) or 257(10) whether to approve a decision of the
Secretary of State,

8.2.8A.c

making an appointment under section  228A (2)  or 247(1), or

8.2.8A.d

deciding—

8.2.8A.d.i

an appeal against, or a review of, a decision made by another Judicial
Commissioner, and

8.2.8A.d.ii

any action to take as a result,

only where the Investigatory Powers Commissioner is unable or unavailable to
exercise the function for any reason.

8.2.8B

Subsection  (8) (b)  does not apply to any function of the Investigatory
Powers Commissioner mentioned in subsection  (8A) .

8.2.8C

Subsection  (8)  does not apply to the function of the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner of making an appointment under subsection  (6A) .

8.2.8D

Where there are two Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioners, the power in
subsection  (8) (a)  may, in particular, be used to delegate to one Deputy
Investigatory Powers Commissioner the exercise of the function of the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner of deciding—

8.2.8D.a

an appeal against, or a review of, a decision made by the other Deputy
Investigatory Powers Commissioner, and

8.2.8D.b

any action to take as a result.

8.3

Omit subsection (9A) (authorisations for obtaining communications data).

8.4

After subsection (10) insert—

8.4.10A

Where—

8.4.10A.a

the exercise of a function of the Investigatory Powers Commissioner mentioned
in subsection  (8A) (d)  is delegated to a Deputy Investigatory Powers
Commissioner in accordance with subsection  (8) (a) , and

8.4.10A.b

the Deputy Investigatory Powers Commissioner decides the appeal or review (and
any action to take as a result),

no further appeal, or request for a further review, may be made to the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner in relation to the decision of the Deputy
Investigatory Powers Commissioner.

8.5

In subsection (13), for paragraph (b) substitute—

8.5.b

to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner are to be read—

8.5.b.i

so far as necessary for the purposes of subsection  (8) (a) , as references to
the Investigatory Powers Commissioner or any Deputy Investigatory Powers
Commissioner, and

8.5.b.ii

so far as necessary for the purposes of subsection  (8) (b) , as references to
the Investigatory Powers Commissioner or any other Judicial Commissioner.

8.6

After subsection (13) insert—

8.6.14

In this section a reference to deciding an appeal against, or a review of, a
decision made by a Judicial Commissioner includes a reference to deciding
whether to approve a decision that the Judicial Commissioner has refused to
approve.

8.7

In section 238(6)(a) of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (funding, staff and
facilities etc), after “section”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “227
(6A) ,  228A (2)  or” .

#### Temporary Judicial Commissioners

9

After section 228 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (but before the italic
heading before section 229) insert—

######## Temporary Judicial Commissioners

9.228A

9.228A.1

The power in subsection  (2)  is exercisable where the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner and the Secretary of State consider that—

9.228A.1.a

as a result of exceptional circumstances, there is a shortage of persons able
to carry out Judicial Commissioner functions, and

9.228A.1.b

the power in subsection  (2)  needs to be exercised in order to deal with that
shortage.

9.228A.2

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner may appoint one or more persons to carry
out Judicial Commissioner functions.

9.228A.3

A person appointed under subsection  (2)  is referred to in this section as a
“ temporary Judicial Commissioner ”.

9.228A.4

A temporary Judicial Commissioner may be appointed under subsection  (2)  for
one or more terms not exceeding six months each and not exceeding three years
in total.

9.228A.5

As soon as practicable after the appointment of any temporary Judicial
Commissioner, the Investigatory Powers Commissioner must notify the following
persons of the appointment—

9.228A.5.a

the Prime Minister;

9.228A.5.b

the Secretary of State;

9.228A.5.c

the Scottish Ministers;

9.228A.5.d

the Lord Chancellor;

9.228A.5.e

the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales;

9.228A.5.f

the Lord President of the Court of Session;

9.228A.5.g

the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland.

9.228A.6

A reference to a Judicial Commissioner in any enactment (including this Act)
is to be read (so far as the context allows) as referring also to a temporary
Judicial Commissioner.

9.228A.7

But subsections (1) and (4) to (6) of section 227 and section 228(2)
(appointment requirements etc) do not apply in relation to temporary Judicial
Commissioners.

9.228A.8

In this section “ Judicial Commissioner functions ” means the functions
conferred on Judicial Commissioners by any enactment (including this Act).

#### Main functions of the Investigatory Powers Commissioner

10

10.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

10.2

In section 229 (main oversight functions)—

10.2.a

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (c) (prevention or restriction of use of
communication devices by prisoners etc);

10.2.b

after subsection (3D) insert—

10.2.b.3E

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner must keep under review (including by way
of audit, inspection and investigation) compliance by any part of His
Majesty’s forces, or by any part of the Ministry of Defence, with policies
governing—

10.2.b.3E.a

the use of surveillance outside the United Kingdom, and

10.2.b.3E.b

the use and conduct of covert human intelligence sources outside the United
Kingdom,

(whether or not authorised under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act
2000).

10.3

In section 230 (additional directed oversight functions), in subsection (1)—

10.3.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (b);

10.3.b

after paragraph (c) insert

, or

10.3.b.d

any public authority not mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c), or any part of
such an authority, so far as engaging in intelligence activities.

10.4

In section 231 (error reporting)—

10.4.a

in subsection (9)(b), for “code of practice under Schedule 7” substitute
“relevant code of practice” ;

10.4.b

after subsection (9) insert—

10.4.b.10

In subsection (9) “ relevant code of practice ” means a code of practice
under—

10.4.b.10.a

Schedule 7,

10.4.b.10.b

the Police Act 1997,

10.4.b.10.c

the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, or

10.4.b.10.d

the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (Scotland) Act 2000.

#### Personal data breaches

11

11.1

In the Investigatory Powers Act 2016, after section 235 insert—

########## Personal data breaches

11.1.235A

11.1.235A.1

This section applies where a telecommunications operator would, but for a
relevant restriction, be required by regulation 5A(2) of the 2003 Regulations
to notify a personal data breach to the Information Commissioner.

11.1.235A.2

The telecommunications operator must report the personal data breach to the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner.

11.1.235A.3

Where a telecommunications operator reports a personal data breach to the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner under subsection  (2) , a Judicial
Commissioner must disclose information about the breach to the Information
Commissioner.

11.1.235A.4

Where a Judicial Commissioner discloses information about a personal data
breach to the Information Commissioner under subsection  (3) , the Information
Commissioner must—

11.1.235A.4.a

consider whether the breach is serious, and

11.1.235A.4.b

if the Information Commissioner considers that the breach is serious, notify
the Investigatory Powers Commissioner.

11.1.235A.5

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner must inform an individual of any
personal data breach relating to that individual of which the Commissioner is
notified under subsection  (4) (b)  if the Commissioner considers that it is
in the public interest for the individual to be informed of the breach.

11.1.235A.6

In making a decision under subsection  (5) , the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner must, in particular, consider—

11.1.235A.6.a

the seriousness of the breach and its effect on the individual concerned, and

11.1.235A.6.b

the extent to which disclosing the breach would be contrary to the public
interest or prejudicial to—

11.1.235A.6.b.i

national security,

11.1.235A.6.b.ii

the prevention or detection of serious crime,

11.1.235A.6.b.iii

the economic well-being of the United Kingdom, or

11.1.235A.6.b.iv

the continued discharge of the functions of any of the intelligence services.

11.1.235A.7

Before making a decision under subsection  (5) , the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner must ask—

11.1.235A.7.a

the Secretary of State, and

11.1.235A.7.b

any public authority that the Investigatory Powers Commissioner considers
appropriate,

to make submissions to the Commissioner about the matters concerned.

11.1.235A.8

When informing an individual under subsection  (5)  of a breach, the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner must—

11.1.235A.8.a

inform the individual of any rights that the individual may have to apply to
the Investigatory Powers Tribunal in relation to the breach, and

11.1.235A.8.b

provide such details of the breach as the Commissioner considers to be
necessary for the exercise of those rights, having regard in particular to the
extent to which disclosing the details would be contrary to the public
interest or prejudicial to anything falling within subsection  (6) (b) (i)  to
(iv) .

11.1.235A.9

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner may not inform the individual to whom it
relates of a personal data breach notified to the Commissioner under
subsection  (4) (b)  except as provided by this section.

11.1.235A.10

For the purposes of this section, a personal data breach is serious if the
breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
individuals.

11.1.235A.11

In this section—

      “ 2003 Regulations ” means the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC
Directive) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/2426 );           “ personal data
breach ” has the same meaning as in the 2003 Regulations (see regulation 2(1)
of those Regulations);           “ relevant restriction ” means any of the
following—         section 57(1) (duty not to make unauthorised disclosures)
(including as applied by section 156);           section 132(1) (duty not to
make unauthorised disclosures) (including as applied by section 197);
section 174(1) (offence of making unauthorised disclosure),         (read with
regulation 29(1)(a)(i) of the 2003 Regulations).

11.2

In section 65 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (the
Tribunal)—

11.2.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

11.2.a.ba

to consider and determine any complaints made to them which, in accordance
with subsection  (4AA) , are complaints for which the Tribunal is the
appropriate forum;

;

11.2.b

after subsection (4) insert—

11.2.b.4AA

The Tribunal is the appropriate forum for a complaint if it is a complaint by
an individual about a relevant personal data breach.

11.2.b.4AB

In subsection  (4AA)  “ relevant personal data breach ” means a personal data
breach that the individual is informed of under section  235A (5)  of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (serious personal data breaches).

11.3

In section 67 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (exercise of
the Tribunal’s jurisdiction)—

11.3.a

in subsection (1)(b), after “65(2)(b)” insert  “,  (ba) ” ;

11.3.b

in subsection (5)—

11.3.b.i

the words from “section” to the end become paragraph (a), and

11.3.b.ii

after that paragraph insert

, or

11.3.b.ii.b

section 65(2) (ba)  if it is made more than one year after the personal data
breach to which it relates.

;

11.3.c

in subsection (6), for “reference” substitute  “complaint or reference has
been” .

11.4

In section 68 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (Tribunal
procedure), for subsection (8) substitute—

11.4.8

In this section “ relevant Commissioner ” means—

11.4.8.a

the Investigatory Powers Commissioner or any other Judicial Commissioner,

11.4.8.b

the Investigatory Powers Commissioner for Northern Ireland, or

11.4.8.c

the Information Commissioner.

11.5

In regulation 5A of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive)
Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/2426 ) (personal data breach), omit paragraph (9)
(notification to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner).

11.6

In consequence of subsection  (5) , in Schedule 10 to the Investigatory Powers
Act 2016 (minor and consequential provision), omit paragraph 14 (personal data
breach) and the italic heading before it.

### Communications data etc

#### Communications data

##### Offence of unlawfully obtaining communications data

12

12.1

Section 11 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (offence of unlawfully
obtaining communications data) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
and  (3) .

12.2

In subsection (1) for the words from “from” to the end substitute

from—

12.2.a

a telecommunications operator which is not wholly or mainly funded out of
public funds, or

12.2.b

a postal operator,

is guilty of an offence.

12.3

After subsection (3) insert—

12.3.3A

The following are examples of cases where a relevant person has lawful
authority to obtain communications data from a telecommunications operator or
postal operator—

12.3.3A.a

where the relevant person’s obtaining of the communications data is lawful for
all purposes in accordance with section 81(1);

12.3.3A.b

any other case where the relevant person obtains the communications data in
the exercise of a statutory power of the relevant public authority;

12.3.3A.c

where the operator lawfully provides the communications data to the relevant
person otherwise than pursuant to the exercise of a statutory power of the
relevant public authority (whether or not in the exercise of a statutory power
to disclose);

12.3.3A.d

where the communications data is obtained in accordance with a court order or
other judicial authorisation;

12.3.3A.e

where the communications data had been published before the relevant person
obtained it;

12.3.3A.f

where the communications data is obtained by the relevant person for the
purpose of enabling, or facilitating, the making of a response to a call made
to the emergency services.

12.3.3B

In subsection (3A)—

      “ emergency services ” means—         police, fire, rescue and ambulance
services, and           His Majesty’s Coastguard;                 “ publish ”
means make available to the public or a section of the public (whether or not
on a commercial basis).

12.4

In section 6 of that Act, in the heading, at the end insert  “in relation to
interceptions” .

12.5

The amendments made by subsections  (1)  to  (3)  have effect only in relation
to the obtaining of communications data after this section comes into force.

##### Meaning of “communications data”: subscriber details

13

13.1

Section 261 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (telecommunications
definitions) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (5), in the words after paragraph (c), after “but” insert
“(subject to subsection  (5A) )” .

13.3

After subsection (5) insert—

13.3.5A

In subsection (5) the words after paragraph (c) do not apply to relevant
subscriber data.

13.3.5B

In subsection  (5A)  “ relevant subscriber data ” means entity data, other
than data comprised in a recording of speech, which—

13.3.5B.a

constitutes any or all of the content of a communication made for the purpose
of initiating or maintaining an entity’s access to a telecommunications
service, and

13.3.5B.b

is about an entity to which that telecommunications service is (or is to be)
provided.

##### Powers to obtain communications data

14

14.1

Section 12 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (abolition or restriction of
certain powers to obtain communications data) is amended in accordance with
subsections (2) to (6).

14.2

In subsection (2)(b) omit “and is not a regulatory power or a relevant postal
power”.

14.3

In subsection (2A), at the end insert  “and subsection  (2B) ” .

14.4

After subsection (2A) insert—

14.4.2B

Subsection (2) does not apply to the exercise by a specified public authority,
otherwise than in the course of a criminal investigation, of a general
information power which is a regulatory or supervisory power.

14.4.2C

For the purposes of  subsection (2B) , “ criminal investigation ” means an
investigation of any criminal conduct, including—

14.4.2C.a

an investigation of alleged or suspected criminal conduct, and

14.4.2C.b

an investigation of whether criminal conduct has taken place.

14.4.2D

For the purposes of  subsection (2B) , the exercise of a general information
power which is a regulatory or supervisory power is treated as not being in
the course of a criminal investigation if at the time of the exercise of the
power the investigation is not being conducted with a view to seeking a
criminal prosecution.

14.5

Omit subsection (3).

14.6

After subsection (5) insert—

14.6.5A

In this section “ specified public authority ” means a public authority which
is—

14.6.5A.a

listed in Schedule  2A , or

14.6.5A.b

listed in column 1 of the table in Schedule 4.

14.6.5B

The Secretary of State or the Treasury may by regulations modify Schedule  2A
by—

14.6.5B.a

adding a public authority to, or

14.6.5B.b

removing a public authority from,

the list in that Schedule.

14.7

In subsection (6)—

14.7.a

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ criminal conduct ” means conduct which constitutes an offence under
the law of any part of the United Kingdom,

;

14.7.b

for the definition of “regulatory power” substitute—

      “ regulatory or supervisory power ” means any power (however expressed)
to obtain information or documents which—         is conferred by or under an
enactment other than this Act or the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act
2000, and           is exercisable in connection with—         the regulation
of persons or activities,           the checking or monitoring of compliance
with requirements, prohibitions or standards imposed by or under an enactment,
or           the enforcement of any requirement or prohibition imposed by or
under an enactment,

;

14.7.c

omit the definition of “relevant postal power”.

14.8

In section 267 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (regulations), in
subsection (5), after paragraph (a) insert—

14.8.aa

regulations under section 12 (5B) ,

.

14.9

In the Investigatory Powers Act 2016, after Schedule 2 insert—

  Specified public authorities for the purposes of section 12

Section 12(5A)

14.9.1

The Treasury.

14.9.2

A local authority.

In this Schedule “ local authority ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 86).

14.10

The Schedule reverses the effect of certain repeals of disclosure powers, and
makes consequential and supplementary provision.

#### Internet connection records

##### Internet connection records

15

15.1

Section 62 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (restrictions in relation to
internet connection records) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (A2) for “or C” substitute  “, C or D1” .

15.3

In subsection (2)—

15.3.a

after “authorisation” insert  “under section 61 or 61A” ;

15.3.b

for “or C” substitute  “, C or D2” .

15.4

After subsection (5) insert—

15.4.5A

Condition D1 is that—

15.4.5A.a

the application is made by a relevant public authority which is specified in
column 1 of the table (see below), and

15.4.5A.b

the Investigatory Powers Commissioner considers that it is necessary, for a
purpose described in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the table, to
identify which persons or apparatuses are using one or more specified internet
services in a specified period.

    1 (applicant) 2 (description(s) of purpose)   Security Service, Secret
Intelligence Service or GCHQ A purpose falling within subsection (7)(a) or (c)
of section 60A, or falling within subsection (7)(b) of that section by virtue
of subsection (8)(a) of that section. National Crime Agency A purpose falling
within subsection (7)(b) of section 60A by virtue of subsection (8)(a) of that
section.

15.4.5B

Condition D2 is that—

15.4.5B.a

the relevant public authority whose designated senior officer has power to
grant the authorisation is specified in column 1 of the table (see below), and

15.4.5B.b

that officer considers that it is necessary, for a purpose described in the
corresponding entry in column 2 or 3 of the table (as applicable), to identify
which persons or apparatuses are using one or more specified internet services
in a specified period.

    1 (relevant public authority) 2 (description of purpose: authorisation
under section 61) 3 (description of purpose: authorisation under section 61A)
Security Service, Secret Intelligence Service or GCHQ A purpose falling within
section 61(7)(a) or (c). A purpose falling within subsection (7)(a) of section
61A by virtue of subsection (8)(a) of that section. National Crime Agency A
purpose falling within subsection (7)(a) of section 61A by virtue of
subsection (8)(a) of that section.

15.4.5C

In subsections  (5A) (b) and  (5B) (b) “ specified ” means specified in the
application for the authorisation.

### Notices

#### Retention notices

##### Powers to require retention of certain data

16

16.1

Section 87 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (powers to require retention
of certain data) is amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (4)—

16.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “data” insert  “, other than data
which is, or can only be obtained by processing, an internet connection
record,” ;

16.2.b

in paragraph (a), after “provided” insert  “(solely or jointly with another
person)” ;

16.2.c

after paragraph (a) insert—

16.2.c.aa

does not relate to a relevant roaming service,

.

16.3

After subsection (4) insert—

16.3.4A

In subsection (4) “ relevant roaming service ” means a telecommunications
service provided by the system operator under an agreement with a
telecommunications operator outside the United Kingdom (the “non-UK operator”)
which facilitates the use by persons in the United Kingdom of the system
operator’s telecommunication system to access one or more telecommunications
services of the non-UK operator.

16.4

In subsection (11), in the words after paragraph (e)—

16.4.a

for “and” substitute  “(and” ;

16.4.b

for “records” substitute  “records)” .

##### Extra-territorial enforcement of retention notices etc

17

17.1

Part 4 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

17.2

In section 95 (enforcement of notices and certain other requirements and
restrictions), in subsection (5), after “enforceable” insert  “(whether or not
the person is in the United Kingdom)” .

17.3

In section 97 (extra-territorial application of Part 4), omit subsection (2).

#### Retention, national security and technical capability notices

##### Review of notices by the Secretary of State

18

18.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

18.2

In section 90 (retention notices: review by the Secretary of State)—

18.2.a

for subsection (4) substitute—

18.2.a.4

Where a telecommunications operator refers a retention notice under subsection
(1)—

18.2.a.4.a

there is no requirement for the operator to comply with the notice, so far as
referred, and

18.2.a.4.b

subsection  (4A)  applies to the operator,

until the Secretary of State has reviewed the notice in accordance with
subsection (5).

18.2.a.4A

Where this subsection applies to a telecommunications operator, the operator
must not make any relevant changes to telecommunications services or
telecommunication systems to which obligations imposed by the retention notice
relate.

18.2.a.4B

In subsection  (4A)  “ relevant change ” means a change that, if implemented,
would have a negative effect on the capability of the operator to provide any
assistance which the operator may be required to provide in relation to any
warrant, authorisation or notice issued or given under this Act.

;

18.2.b

in subsection (5)—

18.2.b.i

after “must” insert  “, before the end of the review period,” ;

18.2.b.ii

after “(1)” insert  “(and accordingly decide what action to take under
subsection (10))” ;

18.2.c

after subsection (5) insert—

18.2.c.5A

In subsection (5) “ the review period ” means—

18.2.c.5A.a

such period as may be provided for by regulations made by the Secretary of
State, or

18.2.c.5A.b

if that period is extended by the Secretary of State in accordance with the
regulations (see subsection  (14) ), such extended period.

;

18.2.d

after subsection (9) insert—

18.2.d.9A

The Commissioner may give a direction to the operator concerned or the
Secretary of State specifying the period within which the operator or the
Secretary of State (as the case may be) may provide evidence, or make
representations, in accordance with subsection (9)(a).

18.2.d.9B

If the Commissioner gives such a direction to the operator or the Secretary of
State, the Board and the Commissioner are not required to take into account
any evidence provided, or representations made, by the operator or the
Secretary of State (as the case may be) after the end of that period.

;

18.2.e

in subsection (10)—

18.2.e.i

for “may” substitute  “must” ;

18.2.e.ii

after “Commissioner” insert  “but before the end of the relevant period,
decide whether to” ;

18.2.f

after subsection (11) insert—

18.2.f.11A

In subsection (10) “ the relevant period ” means—

18.2.f.11A.a

such period as may be provided for by regulations made by the Secretary of
State, or

18.2.f.11A.b

if that period is extended by the Secretary of State in accordance with the
regulations (see subsection  (15) ), such extended period.

;

18.2.g

after subsection (13) insert—

18.2.g.14

Regulations under subsection  (5A) (a)  may include provision enabling any
period provided for by the regulations to be extended by the Secretary of
State where the extension is agreed by the Secretary of State, the
telecommunications operator concerned and a Judicial Commissioner.

18.2.g.15

Regulations under subsection  (11A) (a)  may include provision enabling any
period provided for by the regulations to be extended by the Secretary of
State—

18.2.g.15.a

where the Secretary of State considers that there are exceptional
circumstances that justify the extension, or

18.2.g.15.b

in any other circumstances specified in the regulations.

18.2.g.16

Where regulations under subsection  (11A) (a)  include provision mentioned in
subsection  (15) , the regulations must also include provision requiring the
Secretary of State to notify a Judicial Commissioner and the
telecommunications operator concerned of the duration of any extended period.

18.3

In section 95(5) (enforcement of retention notices etc), after “or (2)” insert
“, or under section 90(4A),” .

18.4

In section 255(10) (enforcement of national security notices and technical
capability notices), in the opening words, for “subsection (9)” substitute
“subsection (8) or (9), or by section 257(3A),” .

18.5

In section 257 (national security notices and technical capability notices:
review by the Secretary of State)—

18.5.a

for subsection (3) substitute—

18.5.a.3

Where a person who is given a notice under section 252 or 253 refers the
notice under subsection (1)—

18.5.a.3.a

there is no requirement for the person to comply with the notice, so far as
referred, and

18.5.a.3.b

subsection (3A) applies to the person,

until the Secretary of State has reviewed the notice in accordance with
subsection (4).

18.5.a.3A

Where this subsection applies to a person, the person must not make any
relevant changes to telecommunications or postal services, or
telecommunication systems, to which obligations imposed by the notice given
under section 252 or 253 relate.

18.5.a.3B

In subsection  (3A)  “ relevant change ” means a change that, if implemented,
would have a negative effect on the capability of the person to provide any
assistance which the person may be required to provide in relation to any
warrant, authorisation or notice issued or given under this Act.

;

18.5.b

in subsection (4)—

18.5.b.i

after “must” insert  “, before the end of the review period,” ;

18.5.b.ii

after “(1)” insert  “(and accordingly decide what action to take under
subsection (9))” ;

18.5.c

after subsection (4) insert—

18.5.c.4A

In subsection (4) “ the review period ” means—

18.5.c.4A.a

such period as may be provided for by regulations made by the Secretary of
State, or

18.5.c.4A.b

if that period is extended by the Secretary of State in accordance with the
regulations (see subsection  (13) ), such extended period.

;

18.5.d

after subsection (8) insert—

18.5.d.8A

The Commissioner may give a direction to the person concerned or the Secretary
of State specifying the period within which the person or the Secretary of
State (as the case may be) may provide evidence, or make representations, in
accordance with subsection (8)(a).

18.5.d.8B

If the Commissioner gives such a direction to the person or the Secretary of
State, the Board and the Commissioner are not required to take into account
any evidence provided, or representations made, by the person or the Secretary
of State (as the case may be) after the end of that period.

;

18.5.e

in subsection (9)—

18.5.e.i

for “may” substitute  “must” ;

18.5.e.ii

after “Commissioner” insert  “but before the end of the relevant period,
decide whether to” ;

18.5.f

after subsection (10) insert—

18.5.f.10A

In subsection (9) “ the relevant period ” means—

18.5.f.10A.a

such period as may be provided for by regulations made by the Secretary of
State, or

18.5.f.10A.b

if that period is extended by the Secretary of State in accordance with the
regulations (see subsection  (14) ), such extended period.

;

18.5.g

after subsection (12) insert—

18.5.g.13

Regulations under subsection  (4A) (a)  may include provision enabling any
period provided for by the regulations to be extended by the Secretary of
State where the extension is agreed by the Secretary of State, the person
concerned and a Judicial Commissioner.

18.5.g.14

Regulations under subsection  (10A) (a)  may include provision enabling any
period provided for by the regulations to be extended by the Secretary of
State—

18.5.g.14.a

where the Secretary of State considers that there are exceptional
circumstances that justify the extension, or

18.5.g.14.b

in any other circumstances specified in the regulations.

18.5.g.15

Where regulations under subsection  (10A) (a)  include provision mentioned in
subsection  (14) , the regulations must also include provision requiring the
Secretary of State to notify a Judicial Commissioner and the person concerned
of the duration of any extended period.

18.6

In section 267(3) (regulations: affirmative procedure)—

18.6.a

in paragraph (e), after “90(1)” insert  “,  (5A) (a)  or  (11A) (a) ” ;

18.6.b

in paragraph (j), after “257(1)” insert  “,  (4A) (a)  or  (10A) (a) ” .

##### Meaning of “telecommunications operator” etc

19

19.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 261(10) (meaning of “ telecommunications operator ”)—

19.2.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (a);

19.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, or

19.2.b.c

controls or provides a telecommunication system which—

19.2.b.c.i

is not (wholly or partly) in, or controlled from, the United Kingdom, and

19.2.b.c.ii

is used by another person to offer or provide a telecommunications service to
persons in the United Kingdom.

19.3

In section 253 (technical capability notices)—

19.3.a

in subsection (1)(a)—

19.3.a.i

after “the operator”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “or another
relevant operator” ;

19.3.a.ii

for “the operator”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “such operator”
;

19.3.b

in subsection (2)(a), after “operator” insert  “(to whom the notice is given)”
.

##### Renewal of notices

20

20.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

20.2

In section 87 (powers to require retention of certain data), after subsection
(6) insert—

20.2.6A

A retention notice ceases to have effect at the end of the relevant period
unless before the end of that period—

20.2.6A.a

it is varied in accordance with section 94(4) so as to require the retention
of additional relevant communications data,

20.2.6A.b

it is renewed (see section  94A ), or

20.2.6A.c

it is revoked or otherwise ceases to have effect (see sections 90(10) and 94).

20.2.6B

In subsection  (6A)  the “ relevant period ” means the period of two years
beginning with—

20.2.6B.a

in the case of a retention notice that has not been varied as mentioned in
subsection  (6A) (a)  or renewed, the day on which the notice comes into
force, or

20.2.6B.b

in the case of a retention notice that has been so varied or renewed, the day
after the day at the end of which the retention notice would have ceased to
have effect if it had not been so varied or renewed.

20.3

In the italic heading before section 94, for “or revocation” substitute  “,
revocation or renewal” .

20.4

After section 94 (but before the italic heading before section 95) insert—

########### Renewal of notices

20.4.94A

20.4.94A.1

If the renewal conditions are met, a retention notice may be renewed, at any
time during the renewal period, by a notice given by the Secretary of State.

20.4.94A.2

The renewal conditions are—

20.4.94A.2.a

that the Secretary of State considers that the requirement in the retention
notice for a telecommunications operator to retain relevant communications
data is still necessary and proportionate for one or more of the purposes
falling within sub-paragraphs (i) to (vi) of section 87(1)(a), and

20.4.94A.2.b

that the decision to renew the notice has been approved by a Judicial
Commissioner.

20.4.94A.3

The renewal period means the period of 30 days ending with the day at the end
of which the retention notice would otherwise cease to have effect.

20.4.94A.4

The Secretary of State must give, or publish, notice of the renewal in such
manner as the Secretary of State considers appropriate for bringing the
renewal to the attention of the telecommunications operator (or description of
operators) to whom it relates.

20.4.94A.5

Sections 87(10), 88, 89 and 90 apply in relation to the renewal of a retention
notice as they apply in relation to the giving of a retention notice.

20.5

In section 229 (main oversight functions), in subsection (8)(e)(i), for “or
varying” substitute  “, varying or renewal” .

20.6

In section 255 (further provision about national security notices and
technical capability notices), after subsection (5) insert—

20.6.5A

A relevant notice ceases to have effect at the end of the relevant period
unless before the end of that period—

20.6.5A.a

it is varied in accordance with section 256(4)(c) or (5)(c) so as to impose
further requirements on the person to whom the notice was given,

20.6.5A.b

it is renewed (see section  256A ), or

20.6.5A.c

it is revoked or otherwise ceases to have effect (see section 256).

20.6.5B

In subsection  (5A)  the “ relevant period ” means the period of two years
beginning with—

20.6.5B.a

in the case of a relevant notice that has not been varied as mentioned in
subsection  (5A) (a)  or renewed, the day on which the notice was given, or

20.6.5B.b

in the case of a relevant notice that has been so varied or renewed, the day
after the day at the end of which the relevant notice would have ceased to
have effect if it had not been so varied or renewed.

20.7

After section 256 insert—

########### Renewal of notices

20.7.256A

20.7.256A.1

If the renewal conditions are met, a relevant notice may be renewed, at any
time during the renewal period, by a notice given by the Secretary of State.

20.7.256A.2

The renewal conditions for a national security notice given under section 252
are that—

20.7.256A.2.a

the Secretary of State considers that the notice is still necessary in the
interests of national security,

20.7.256A.2.b

the Secretary of State considers that the conduct required by the notice is
still proportionate to what is sought to be achieved by that conduct, and

20.7.256A.2.c

the decision to renew the notice has been approved by a Judicial Commissioner.

20.7.256A.3

The renewal conditions for a technical capability notice given under section
253 are that—

20.7.256A.3.a

the Secretary of State considers that the notice is still necessary for
securing that the relevant operator has the capability to provide any
assistance which the operator may be required to provide in relation to any
relevant authorisation,

20.7.256A.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that the conduct required by the notice is
still proportionate to what is sought to be achieved by that conduct, and

20.7.256A.3.c

the decision to renew the notice has been approved by a Judicial Commissioner.

20.7.256A.4

The renewal period means the period of 30 days ending with the day at the end
of which the relevant notice would otherwise cease to have effect.

20.7.256A.5

If the Secretary of State renews a relevant notice given to any person, the
Secretary of State must give that person notice in writing of the renewal.

20.7.256A.6

Sections 254, 255(2) to (4) and (7) and 257 apply in relation to the renewal
of a relevant notice as they apply in relation to the giving of a relevant
notice.

20.7.256A.7

Section 255(6) applies to any notice of the renewal of a technical capability
notice as it applies to a technical capability notice.

20.7.256A.8

In this section—

      “ relevant authorisation ” has the meaning given by section 253;
“ relevant notice ” means—         a national security notice under section
252, or           a technical capability notice under section 253;
“ relevant operator ” has the meaning given by section 253.

#### Notification of proposed changes to telecommunications services etc

##### Notification of proposed changes to telecommunications services etc

21

21.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  and  (3) .

21.2

After section 258 (but before the italic heading before section 259) insert—

########### Notification of proposed changes to telecommunications services etc

21.2.258A

21.2.258A.1

The Secretary of State may give a relevant operator a notice in writing under
this section requiring the operator to notify the Secretary of State of any
proposals of the operator to make any relevant changes specified in the
notice.

21.2.258A.2

In this section “ relevant change ” means a change—

21.2.258A.2.a

to a service or system within subsection  (3) , and

21.2.258A.2.b

that is specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State as a change
that may be included in a notice given under this section.

21.2.258A.3

The following are within this subsection—

21.2.258A.3.a

telecommunications services offered or provided by the operator;

21.2.258A.3.b

telecommunication systems controlled or provided by the operator;

21.2.258A.3.c

postal services provided by the operator.

21.2.258A.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may in particular specify changes by
reference to the impact of the changes on the capability of a relevant
operator to provide any assistance which the operator may be required to
provide in relation to any warrant, authorisation or notice issued or given
under this Act.

21.2.258A.5

The Secretary of State may give a relevant operator a notice under this
section only if the Secretary of State considers that—

21.2.258A.5.a

the notice is necessary for maintaining the capability of the relevant
operator to provide any assistance which the operator may be required to
provide in relation to any warrant, authorisation or notice issued or given
under this Act, and

21.2.258A.5.b

the conduct required by the notice is proportionate to what is sought to be
achieved by that conduct.

21.2.258A.6

Before giving a notice under this section, the Secretary of State must among
other matters take into account—

21.2.258A.6.a

the likely benefits of the notice,

21.2.258A.6.b

the likely number of users (if known) of any postal or telecommunications
service to which the notice relates,

21.2.258A.6.c

the likely cost of complying with the notice, and

21.2.258A.6.d

any other effect of the notice on the operator to whom it relates.

21.2.258A.7

Before giving a notice under this section to a relevant operator, the
Secretary of State must consult that operator.

21.2.258A.8

A relevant operator to whom a notice is given under this section, or any
person employed or engaged for the purposes of that relevant operator’s
business, must not disclose the existence or contents of the notice to any
other person without the permission of the Secretary of State.

21.2.258A.9

A relevant operator to whom a notice is given under this section must comply
with the notice a reasonable time before making any relevant changes to which
the notice relates.

21.2.258A.10

The duty imposed by subsection  (8)  or  (9)  is enforceable by civil
proceedings by the Secretary of State for an injunction, or for specific
performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of Session Act
1988, or for any other appropriate relief.

21.2.258A.11

In this section “ relevant operator ” means—

21.2.258A.11.a

a postal operator,

21.2.258A.11.b

a telecommunications operator, or

21.2.258A.11.c

a person who is proposing to become a postal operator or a telecommunications
operator,

who meets the condition in subsection  (12) .

21.2.258A.12

The condition in this subsection is that the operator or person provides (or
has provided) assistance in relation to any warrant, authorisation or notice
issued or given under this Act.

########### Variation and revocation of notices given under section 

21.2.258B

21.2.258B.1

In this section—

      “ relevant notice ” means a notice given under section  258A ;
“ relevant operator ” has the same meaning as in that section.

21.2.258B.2

The Secretary of State may—

21.2.258B.2.a

vary a relevant notice;

21.2.258B.2.b

revoke a relevant notice (whether wholly or in part).

21.2.258B.3

The Secretary of State may vary a relevant notice only if the Secretary of
State considers that—

21.2.258B.3.a

the variation is necessary for maintaining the capability of the relevant
operator to provide any assistance which the operator may be required to
provide in relation to any warrant, authorisation or notice issued or given
under this Act, and

21.2.258B.3.b

the conduct required by the notice, as varied, is proportionate to what is
sought to be achieved by that conduct.

21.2.258B.4

If the Secretary of State varies or revokes a relevant notice given to any
relevant operator, the Secretary of State must give that relevant operator
notice in writing of the variation or revocation.

21.2.258B.5

The fact that a relevant notice has been revoked in relation to a particular
relevant operator does not prevent the giving of another relevant notice of
the same kind in relation to the same relevant operator.

21.2.258B.6

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  of section  258A  apply in relation to varying or
revoking a relevant notice as they apply in relation to giving a relevant
notice.

21.2.258B.7

Any reference in this section or section  258A (8)  or  (9)  to a notice given
under section  258A  includes a reference to such a notice as varied under
this section.

21.3

In section 267(3) (regulations)—

21.3.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (j);

21.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

21.3.b.ja

section  258A (2) , or

.

21.4

The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 is amended as follows.

21.5

In section 65 (the Tribunal)—

21.5.a

in subsection (5)(czi)—

21.5.a.i

for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” ;

21.5.a.ii

for “or technical capability” substitute  “, technical capability or proposed
changes to telecommunications services etc” ;

21.5.b

in subsection (5)(czl)(iii), for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” ;

21.5.c

in subsection (8)(bc), for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” .

21.6

In section 67 (exercise of the Tribunal’s jurisdiction), in subsection
(7)(azc), for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” .

21.7

In section 68 (Tribunal procedure)—

21.7.a

in subsection (5)(b), for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” ;

21.7.b

in subsection (7)(f), for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” ;

21.7.c

in subsection (7)(ha), for “or 253” substitute  “, 253 or 258A” .

### Miscellaneous

#### Members of Parliament etc

##### Interception and examination of communications: Members of Parliament etc

22

22.1

Section 26 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (interception and examination
of communications: Members of Parliament etc) is amended as follows.

22.2

In subsection (2)—

22.2.a

the words “the Prime Minister” become paragraph (a);

22.2.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

22.2.b.b

if conditions A and B are met, an individual (other than that Secretary of
State) designated by the Prime Minister under this section.

22.3

After subsection (2) insert—

22.3.2A

Condition A is that the Prime Minister is unable to decide whether to give
approval under subsection (2), due to incapacity or inability to access secure
communications.

22.3.2B

Condition B is that the Secretary of State or a senior official considers that
there is an urgent need for the decision (as to whether to give such approval)
to be made.

22.3.2C

The Prime Minister may designate up to five individuals under this section.

22.3.2D

The Prime Minister may designate an individual under this section only if the
individual—

22.3.2D.a

holds the office of Secretary of State, and

22.3.2D.b

has the necessary operational awareness to decide whether to give approvals
under subsection (2).

22.3.2E

A designation under this section ends—

22.3.2E.a

when the individual ceases to hold the office of Secretary of State, or

22.3.2E.b

if earlier, when revoked by the Prime Minister.

22.3.2F

In this section “ senior official ” means a member of the Senior Civil Service
or a member of the Senior Management Structure of His Majesty’s Diplomatic
Service.

##### Equipment interference: Members of Parliament etc

23

23.1

Section 111 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (equipment interference:
Members of Parliament etc) is amended as follows.

23.2

In subsection (3)—

23.2.a

the words “the Prime Minister” become paragraph (a);

23.2.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

23.2.b.b

if conditions A and B are met, an individual (other than that Secretary of
State) designated by the Prime Minister under this section.

23.3

In subsection (6)—

23.3.a

the words “the Prime Minister” become paragraph (a);

23.3.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

23.3.b.b

if conditions A and B are met, an individual (other than that Secretary of
State) designated by the Prime Minister under this section.

23.4

After subsection (7) insert—

23.4.7A

Condition A is that the Prime Minister is unable to decide whether to give
approval under subsection (3) or (as the case may be) (6), due to incapacity
or inability to access secure communications.

23.4.7B

Condition B is that the Secretary of State or a senior official considers that
there is an urgent need for the decision (as to whether to give such approval)
to be made.

23.4.7C

The Prime Minister may designate up to five individuals under this section.

23.4.7D

The Prime Minister may designate an individual under this section only if the
individual—

23.4.7D.a

holds the office of Secretary of State, and

23.4.7D.b

has the necessary operational awareness to decide whether to give approvals
under subsection (3) or (6).

23.4.7E

A designation under this section ends—

23.4.7E.a

when the individual ceases to hold the office of Secretary of State, or

23.4.7E.b

if earlier, when revoked by the Prime Minister.

#### Equipment interference

##### Issue of equipment interference warrants

24

24.1

Part 1 of the table in Schedule 6 to the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (issue
of warrants under section 106 etc) is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  and  (3) .

24.2

In the entry relating to the Chief Constable of a police force maintained
under section 2 of the Police Act 1996, in the second column—

24.2.a

for “section 12A(1) of the Police Act 1996” substitute  “section 41(1) of the
Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011” ;

24.2.b

for “section 12A(2)” substitute  “section 41(5)” .

24.3

In the entry relating to the Director General of the National Crime Agency—

24.3.a

in the first column, after “General” insert  “or a Deputy Director General” ;

24.3.b

in the second column, after “General” insert  “or a Deputy Director General” .

24.4

In section 107(3) of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (restriction on issue
of warrants to certain law enforcement officers)—

24.4.a

after “General”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “or a Deputy Director
General” ;

24.4.b

after “General”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “or the Deputy
Director General (as the case may be)” .

##### Modification of equipment interference warrants

25

In section 121 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (notification of
modifications), after subsection (3) insert—

25.4

But subsection (3) does not apply where the modification—

25.4.a

is made in accordance with section 119(1), and

25.4.b

is to remove any matter, name or description included in the warrant in
accordance with section 115(3) to (5).

##### Issue of targeted examination warrants to intelligence services

26

In section 102 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (power to issue warrants
to intelligence services: the Secretary of State), for subsection (4)
substitute—

26.4

But the Secretary of State may not issue a targeted examination warrant under
subsection (3) if—

26.4.a

the Secretary of State considers that the only ground for considering the
warrant to be necessary is for the purpose of preventing or detecting serious
crime, and

26.4.b

the warrant, if issued, would relate only to a person who would be in Scotland
at the time of the issue of the warrant or whom the Secretary of State
believes would be in Scotland at that time.

For the power of the Scottish Ministers to issue a targeted examination
warrant, see section 103.

##### Bulk equipment interference: safeguards for confidential journalistic material etc

27

27.1

The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 is amended as follows.

27.2

For section 195 (additional safeguard for confidential journalistic material)
substitute—

########### Additional safeguards for confidential journalistic material etc

27.2.195

27.2.195.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if, in a case where material obtained under a bulk
equipment interference warrant (“BEI material”) is to be selected for
examination—

27.2.195.1.a

the purpose, or one of the purposes, of using those criteria to be used for
the selection of the BEI material for examination (“the relevant criteria”) is
to identify any confidential journalistic material or to identify or confirm a
source of journalistic information, or

27.2.195.1.b

the use of the relevant criteria is highly likely to identify confidential
journalistic material or identify or confirm a source of journalistic
information.

27.2.195.2

The BEI material may be selected for examination using the relevant criteria
only if the use of those criteria has been approved by—

27.2.195.2.a

the Investigatory Powers Commissioner, or

27.2.195.2.b

in a case where a senior official acting on behalf of the Secretary of State
considers there is an urgent need to do so, the senior official.

27.2.195.3

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner or a senior official may give an
approval under subsection  (2)  only if the Commissioner or official considers
that—

27.2.195.3.a

the public interest in obtaining the information that would be obtained by the
selection of the BEI material for examination outweighs the public interest in
the confidentiality of confidential journalistic material or sources of
journalistic information, and

27.2.195.3.b

there are no less intrusive means by which the information may reasonably be
obtained.

27.2.195.4

Subsection  (5)  applies where—

27.2.195.4.a

material obtained under a bulk equipment interference warrant (“the relevant
material”) is retained, following its examination, for purposes other than the
destruction of the relevant material, and

27.2.195.4.b

the person to whom the warrant is addressed considers that the relevant
material contains confidential journalistic material or material that would
identify or confirm a source of journalistic information.

27.2.195.5

The person to whom the warrant is addressed must inform the Investigatory
Powers Commissioner of the retention of the relevant material as soon as
reasonably practicable.

27.2.195.6

Unless the Investigatory Powers Commissioner considers that  subsection (8)
applies to the relevant material, the Commissioner must direct that the
relevant material is destroyed.

27.2.195.7

If the Investigatory Powers Commissioner considers that  subsection (8)
applies to the relevant material, the Commissioner may impose such conditions
as to the use or retention of the relevant material as the Commissioner
considers necessary for the purpose of protecting the public interest in the
confidentiality of confidential journalistic material or sources of
journalistic information.

27.2.195.8

This subsection applies to material containing—

27.2.195.8.a

confidential journalistic material, or

27.2.195.8.b

material identifying or confirming a source of journalistic information,

if the public interest in retaining the material outweighs the public interest
in the confidentiality of confidential journalistic material or sources of
journalistic information.

27.2.195.9

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner—

27.2.195.9.a

may require an affected party to make representations about how the
Commissioner should exercise any function under subsections  (6)  and  (7) ,
and

27.2.195.9.b

must have regard to any such representations made by an affected party
(whether or not as a result of a requirement imposed under  paragraph (a) ).

27.2.195.10

“ Affected party ” has the meaning given by section 194(14).

(For provision about the grounds for retaining material obtained under a
warrant, see section 191.)

########### Section 195: procedure where use of criteria approved by senior official

27.2.195A

27.2.195A.1

This section applies where material obtained under a bulk equipment
interference warrant is selected for examination using criteria the use of
which was approved by a senior official under  section 195 (2) .

27.2.195A.2

The Secretary of State must, as soon as reasonably practicable, inform the
Investigatory Powers Commissioner that the approval has been given.

27.2.195A.3

The Investigatory Powers Commissioner must, as soon as reasonably practicable—

27.2.195A.3.a

consider whether the relevant condition is met as regards the use of the
criteria for the selection of the material for examination, and

27.2.195A.3.b

notify the Secretary of State of their decision.

27.2.195A.4

For this purpose, “the relevant condition” is that—

27.2.195A.4.a

the public interest in obtaining the information that would be obtained by the
selection of the material for examination outweighs the public interest in the
confidentiality of confidential journalistic material or sources of
journalistic information, and

27.2.195A.4.b

there are no less intrusive means by which the information may reasonably be
obtained.

27.2.195A.5

On the giving of a notification of a decision that the relevant condition is
not met, the senior official’s approval ceases to have effect.

27.2.195A.6

Nothing in  subsection (5)  affects the lawfulness of—

27.2.195A.6.a

anything done by virtue of the approval before it ceases to have effect, or

27.2.195A.6.b

if anything is in the process of being done by virtue of the approval when it
ceases to have effect—

27.2.195A.6.b.i

anything done before that thing could be stopped, or

27.2.195A.6.b.ii

anything done which it is not reasonably practicable to stop.

27.3

In section 229 (main oversight functions), in subsection (8), before paragraph
(g) insert—

27.3.fb

deciding whether—

27.3.fb.i

to approve the use of criteria under section 195(2)(a),

27.3.fb.ii

subsection 195(8) applies for the purposes of subsection 195(6) and (7),

27.3.fb.iii

the relevant condition is met for the purposes of subsection 195A(3)(a).

#### Exclusion of matters from legal proceedings etc: exceptions

##### Exclusion of matters from legal proceedings etc: exceptions

28

28.1

Schedule 3 to the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (exceptions to section 56) is
amended as follows.

28.2

After paragraph 12 insert—

########### Proceedings relating to release of prisoners etc in England and Wales

28.2.12A

28.2.12A.1

Section 56(1) does not apply in relation to—

28.2.12A.1.a

any proceedings before the Parole Board, or

28.2.12A.1.b

any proceedings arising out of such proceedings.

28.2.12A.2

But sub-paragraph  (1)  does not permit the disclosure of anything to—

28.2.12A.2.a

any person, other than the Secretary of State, who is or was a party to the
proceedings, or

28.2.12A.2.b

any person who—

28.2.12A.2.b.i

represents such a person for the purposes of the proceedings, and

28.2.12A.2.b.ii

does so otherwise than by virtue of appointment as a special advocate.

28.3

After paragraph 24 insert—

28.3.25

28.3.25.1

Nothing in section 56(1) prohibits—

28.3.25.1.a

a disclosure to a relevant coroner conducting an NI investigation or inquest,
or

28.3.25.1.b

a disclosure to a qualified person—

28.3.25.1.b.i

appointed as legal adviser to an inquest conducted by the coroner, or

28.3.25.1.b.ii

employed under section 11(3) of the Coroners Act (Northern Ireland)  1959 (c.
15)  (“ the 1959 Act ”) by a relevant coroner to assist the coroner in an
investigation conducted by the coroner,

where, in the course of the investigation or inquest, the relevant coroner (“
C ”) has ordered the disclosure to be made to C alone or (as the case may be)
to C and any qualified person appointed or employed by C as mentioned in
paragraph  (b) .

28.3.25.2

A relevant coroner may order a disclosure under  sub-paragraph (1)  only if
the coroner considers that the exceptional circumstances of the case make the
disclosure essential in the interests of justice.

28.3.25.3

In a case where a coroner (“ C ”) conducting, or who has been conducting, an
NI investigation or inquest is not a relevant coroner, nothing in section
56(1) prohibits—

28.3.25.3.a

a disclosure to C that there is intercepted material in existence which is, or
may be, relevant to the investigation or inquest;

28.3.25.3.b

a disclosure to a qualified person appointed by C as legal adviser to the
inquest or employed by C under section 11(3) of the 1959 Act to assist C in
the investigation, which is made for the purposes of determining—

28.3.25.3.b.i

whether any intercepted material is, or may be, relevant to the investigation,
and

28.3.25.3.b.ii

if so, whether it is necessary for the material to be disclosed to the person
conducting the investigation.

28.3.25.4

In  sub-paragraph (3)  “ intercepted material ” means—

28.3.25.4.a

any content of an intercepted communication (within the meaning of section
56), or

28.3.25.4.b

any secondary data obtained from a communication.

28.3.25.5

In this paragraph—

      “ the 1959 Act ” has the meaning given by  sub-paragraph (1) ;
“ coroner ” means a coroner appointed under section 2 of the 1959 Act;
“ NI investigation or inquest ” means an investigation under section 11(1) of
the 1959 Act or an inquest under section 13 or 14 of that Act;           “
qualified person ” means a member of the Bar of Northern Ireland, or a
solicitor of the Court of Judicature of Northern Ireland);           “
relevant coroner ” means a coroner who is a judge of the High Court or of a
county court in Northern Ireland.

28.3.26

28.3.26.1

Nothing in section 56(1) prohibits—

28.3.26.1.a

a disclosure to a relevant person conducting an inquiry under the Inquiries
into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016 ( 2016 asp 2 )
(“IFASDA 2016”), or

28.3.26.1.b

a disclosure to a qualified person appointed under section 24 of that Act to
assist a relevant person in the inquiry,

where, in the course of the inquiry, the person conducting the inquiry has
ordered the disclosure to be made to that person alone or (as the case may be)
to that person and any qualified person appointed to assist a relevant person
in the inquiry.

28.3.26.2

A relevant person may order a disclosure under  sub-paragraph (1)  only if the
person considers that the exceptional circumstances of the case make the
disclosure essential in the interests of justice.

28.3.26.3

Nothing in section 56(1) prohibits—

28.3.26.3.a

a disclosure to a relevant person conducting an inquiry under IFASDA 2016, or

28.3.26.3.b

a disclosure to a qualified person appointed under section 24 of that Act to
assist a relevant person in the inquiry,

that there is intercepted material in existence which is, or may be, relevant
to the inquiry.

28.3.26.4

In  sub-paragraph (3)  “ intercepted material ” means—

28.3.26.4.a

any content of an intercepted communication (within the meaning of section
56), or

28.3.26.4.b

any secondary data obtained from a communication.

28.3.26.5

In this paragraph “ relevant person ” means—

28.3.26.5.a

a sheriff principal,

28.3.26.5.b

a temporary sheriff principal, or

28.3.26.5.c

a sheriff or part-time sheriff (but not a summary sheriff or part-time summary
sheriff) designated as a specialist under section 37(1) or (3) of IFASDA 2016.

28.3.26.6

In this paragraph “ qualified person ” means an advocate or solicitor; and “
advocate ” and “ solicitor ” have the same meaning as in IFASDA 2016 (see
section 40 of that Act).

#### Freedom of information

##### Freedom of information: bodies dealing with security matters

29

In section 23(3) of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (information supplied
by, or relating to, bodies dealing with security matters), after paragraph (o)
insert—

29.p

a Judicial Commissioner within the meaning of the Investigatory Powers Act
2016 (see section 263(1) of that Act).

### General

#### Power to make consequential provision

30

30.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument make
provision that is consequential on this Act.

30.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, amend or repeal
provision made by or under an Act passed before, or in the same session as,
this Act.

30.3

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under this section which amend or repeal an Act may not be made
unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

30.4

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

#### Extent

31

31.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
as follows.

31.2

Any amendment or repeal made by this Act has the same extent within the United
Kingdom as the provision amended or repealed.

31.3

The power under section 272(6) of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 may be
exercised so as to extend to the Isle of Man or any of the British overseas
territories any amendment or repeal made by or under this Act of any part of
that Act (with or without modifications).

#### Commencement.

32

32.1

This Part comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

32.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Secretary
of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint.

32.3

Different days may be appointed for different purposes.

32.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument make
transitional or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of
any provision of this Act.

32.5

The power to make regulations under subsection  (4)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

33

This Act may be cited as the Investigatory Powers (Amendment) Act 2024.

  Disclosure powers

Section 14

##### Restoration of disclosure powers

###### Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974

1

In section 20 of the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 (powers of
inspectors), omit subsections (9) and (10).

###### Criminal Justice Act 1987

2

In section 2 of the Criminal Justice Act 1987 (investigation of powers of the
Director of Serious Fraud Office), omit subsections (10A) and (10B).

###### Consumer Protection Act 1987

3

In section 29 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987 (powers of search etc), omit
subsections (8) and (9).

###### Environmental Protection Act 1990

4

In section 71 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 (obtaining of
information from persons and authorities), omit subsections (5) and (6).

###### Financial Services and Markets Act 2000

5

In section 175 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (information
gathering and investigations: supplemental provision), omit subsections (5A)
and (5B).

##### Consequential amendments

6

In consequence of paragraphs 1 to 5 omit paragraphs 1 to 4 and 9 of Schedule 2
to the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (abolition of disclosure powers).

