Title: Local Government Finance (Wales) Act 2024
Date: 2024-10-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/6

## Local Government Finance (Wales) Act 2024

      Having been passed by Senedd Cymru and having received the assent of His
Majesty, it is enacted as follows:

### NON-DOMESTIC RATING

#### Introduction

##### Overview of Part 1

1

1.1

This Part amends the Local Government Finance Act  1988 (c. 41)  (“ the 1988
Act ”), in relation to Wales, as follows.

1.2

Part 3 of the 1988 Act makes provision about non-domestic rating. Sections 2
and 3 insert new sections 41ZA and 52ZA into the 1988 Act, restating provision
about the compilation of local and central non-domestic rating lists for
Wales. The lists contain details of hereditaments and their rateable values.
Sections 2 and 3 shorten the interval between revaluation years from 5 to 3
years. Section 4 inserts a power into the 1988 Act for the Welsh Ministers to
alter that interval or the date of a future revaluation year by regulations.

1.3

Schedules 4ZA, 4ZB and 5A to the 1988 Act set out reliefs from non-domestic
rating for certain descriptions of hereditaments. Section 5 inserts provision
into each of these Schedules for the Welsh Ministers to amend or withdraw
existing reliefs and to confer new reliefs by regulations.

1.4

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 4ZB to the 1988 Act provides for full relief from non-
domestic rating where a hereditament is unoccupied, the ratepayer is a charity
or a registered club and where conditions as to the hereditament’s next use
are met. Section 6 restates this paragraph and adds to the conditions that
must be met in order for the relief to apply.

1.5

Section 46A of the 1988 Act provides for new buildings to be deemed to have
been completed on a certain day (and therefore eligible for inclusion on a
local or central non-domestic rating list). Section 7 amends that section (by
expanding the definition of a new building) so that it applies to existing
buildings that have undergone alterations where those buildings are comprised
in hereditaments that have been removed from a list.

1.6

Section 47 of the 1988 Act enables a billing authority to grant or vary relief
from non-domestic rating subject to conditions set out in the section. Section
8 amends that section so as to remove the time limit on making decisions
granting or varying relief.

1.7

Schedule 5 to the 1988 Act makes provision about hereditaments that are exempt
from non-domestic rating and includes a limited power for the Welsh Ministers
to confer additional exemptions. Section 9 replaces that power with an
unqualified power for the Welsh Ministers to amend or withdraw existing
exemptions and to create new exemptions by regulations.

1.8

Schedule 7 to the 1988 Act makes provision in connection with the setting of
multipliers used to calculate non-domestic rating. Section 10 inserts a new
power for the Welsh Ministers to provide for differential multipliers in
respect of descriptions of hereditaments to be specified in regulations.
Section 11 amends the formulas in Schedules 4ZA, 4ZB and 5A to the 1988 Act
for calculating non-domestic rating in relation to hereditaments in Wales so
as to reflect the changes made by section 10 in relation to the setting of
differential multipliers.

1.9

Schedule 9 to the 1988 Act imposes duties on ratepayers and potential
ratepayers to notify valuation officers of information that relates to their
liability to a non-domestic rate in respect of a hereditament, and provides
for the enforcement of the duties (through civil and criminal penalties).
Section 12 amends Schedule 9 so that these provisions apply in relation to
hereditaments in Wales.

1.10

Section 13 inserts sections 63F to 63M into the 1988 Act. The new sections
make provision about counteracting advantages obtained from artificial non-
domestic rating avoidance arrangements. They include provision enabling the
Welsh Ministers to make regulations that provide that an arrangement of a
specified type is artificial (unless, in accordance with the regulations, a
billing authority or the Welsh Ministers determine otherwise in a particular
case); provision requiring billing authorities (or the Welsh Ministers) to
treat persons as liable to pay the chargeable amounts that would have been, or
would be, payable in the absence of an artificial non-domestic rating
avoidance arrangement; provision for a review and appeals process; provision
enabling the Welsh Ministers to make regulations imposing financial penalties
where a person who is treated as liable fails to pay an amount due.

1.11

Section 14 inserts section 143A into the 1988 Act. Section 143A makes
provision about the powers of the Welsh Ministers to make orders and
regulations under the Act (restating provisions of section 143 of the 1988 Act
in so far as they apply in respect of the powers of the Welsh Ministers).

#### Rating lists

##### Local rating lists

2

2.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 41—

2.2.a

in subsection (1), after “billing authority” insert  “in England” ;

2.2.b

in subsection (2), omit “, subject to subsection (2A)”;

2.2.c

in subsection (2A), for “In the case of a billing authority in England”
substitute  “But” ;

2.2.d

omit subsection (9);

2.2.e

in the heading, after “lists” insert  “: England” .

2.3

After section 41, insert—

########### Local rating lists: Wales

2.3.41ZA

2.3.41ZA.1

The valuation officer for a billing authority in Wales must compile lists for
the authority (to be called its local non-domestic rating lists) in accordance
with this Part.

2.3.41ZA.2

A list must be compiled on 1 April in each revaluation year.

2.3.41ZA.3

Revaluation years are 2026 and every third year afterwards.

2.3.41ZA.4

A list comes into force on the day on which it is compiled and remains in
force until the next list is compiled.

2.3.41ZA.5

Before a list is compiled the valuation officer must take such steps as are
reasonably practicable to ensure that it is accurately compiled on 1 April
concerned.

2.3.41ZA.6

No later than 31 December preceding a day on which a list is to be compiled,
the valuation officer must send to the authority a copy of the list proposed
to be compiled (on the information then before the officer).

2.3.41ZA.7

The authority must keep a copy of the proposed list electronically and must
take such steps as it thinks suitable for giving notice of it.

2.3.41ZA.8

As soon as is reasonably practicable after compiling a list, the valuation
officer must send a copy of it to the authority.

2.3.41ZA.9

The authority must keep a copy of the list electronically.

2.3.41ZA.10

The valuation officer must maintain a list within subsection (11) for so long
as is necessary for the purposes of this Part, whether or not the list is
still in force.

2.3.41ZA.11

A list is within this subsection if it was—

2.3.41ZA.11.a

compiled under this section, or

2.3.41ZA.11.b

required to be compiled on 1 April 1990, 1 April 1996, 1 April 2000, 1 April
2005, 1 April 2010, 1 April 2017 or 1 April 2023.

2.3.41ZA.12

In maintaining the list that was required to be compiled on 1 April 1990, the
valuation officer may take into account information obtained under section 82
or 86 of the 1967 Act.

##### Central rating lists

3

3.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 52—

3.2.a

in subsection (1), after “lists”, in the first place it appears, insert  “for
England” ;

3.2.b

in subsection (2), omit “, subject to subsection (2A)”;

3.2.c

in subsection (2A), for “In the application of this section to England”
substitute  “But” ;

3.2.d

omit subsection (8);

3.2.e

in the heading, after “lists” insert  “for England” .

3.3

After section 52, insert—

########### Central rating lists for Wales

3.3.52ZA

3.3.52ZA.1

The central valuation officer must compile lists for Wales (to be called
central non-domestic rating lists) in accordance with this Part.

3.3.52ZA.2

A list must be compiled on 1 April in each revaluation year.

3.3.52ZA.3

Revaluation years are 2026 and every third year afterwards.

3.3.52ZA.4

A list comes into force on the day on which it is compiled and remains in
force until the next list is compiled.

3.3.52ZA.5

Before a list is compiled the central valuation officer must take such steps
as are reasonably practicable to ensure that it is accurately compiled on 1
April concerned.

3.3.52ZA.6

No later than 31 December preceding a day on which a list is to be compiled,
the central valuation officer must send to the Welsh Ministers a copy of the
list proposed to be compiled (on the information then before the officer).

3.3.52ZA.7

The Welsh Ministers must keep a copy of the proposed list electronically.

3.3.52ZA.8

As soon as is reasonably practicable after compiling a list, the central
valuation officer must send a copy of it to the Welsh Ministers.

3.3.52ZA.9

The Welsh Ministers must keep a copy of the list electronically.

3.3.52ZA.10

The central valuation officer must maintain a list within subsection (11) for
so long as is necessary for the purposes of this Part, whether or not the list
is still in force.

3.3.52ZA.11

A list is within this subsection if it was—

3.3.52ZA.11.a

compiled under this section, or

3.3.52ZA.11.b

required to be compiled on 1 April 1990, 1 April 1995, 1 April 2000, 1 April
2005, 1 April 2010, 1 April 2017 or 1 April 2023.

##### Power to amend revaluation year

4

Before section 55 of the 1988 Act, insert—

######### Power to amend revaluation year: Wales

4.54AB

4.54AB.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend sections 41ZA(3) and 52ZA(3) so
as to—

4.54AB.1.a

substitute a different year for the year that is for the time being specified
as the revaluation year;

4.54AB.1.b

insert a reference to a different year from the year that would otherwise be
the revaluation year;

4.54AB.1.c

substitute a different interval between revaluation years for the interval
that is for the time being specified there;

4.54AB.1.d

make other amendments to section 41ZA(3) or 52ZA(3) that are consequential on,
or incidental to, the amendments made under paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

4.54AB.2

If regulations are made—

4.54AB.2.a

under subsection (1)(a) or (b), they must specify the same year in both
sections 41ZA(3) and 52ZA(3);

4.54AB.2.b

under subsection (1)(c), they must specify the same interval in both sections
41ZA(3) and 52ZA(3).

4.54AB.3

Where regulations under subsection (1)(c) substitute a different interval, the
Welsh Ministers must by regulations also amend the period of years specified
in section 58(10)(a) so that it is the same as that interval.

#### Reliefs

##### Powers to confer, vary and withdraw reliefs

5

5.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

5.2

In Schedule 4ZA—

5.2.a

after paragraph 8, insert—

############# POWERS TO CONFER, VARY AND WITHDRAW RELIEFS: WALES

############## Power to confer additional partial reliefs

5.2.a.8A

5.2.a.8A.1

Where this paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament, the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day is to be calculated in accordance with the
formula—

  A × M C - F.

5.2.a.8A.2

This paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament where—

5.2.a.8A.2.a

the hereditament is situated in Wales, and

5.2.a.8A.2.b

on the day concerned, in relation to the hereditament—

5.2.a.8A.2.b.i

conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations are satisfied, and

5.2.a.8A.2.b.ii

F is an amount that is greater than 0 but less than the sum of—

A × M C.

5.2.a.8A.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(i) may—

5.2.a.8A.3.a

prescribe more than one condition or set of conditions that may be satisfied
such that this paragraph applies;

5.2.a.8A.3.b

make provision about the application of more than one condition or set of
conditions in relation to a hereditament.

############## Power to confer additional full reliefs

5.2.a.8B

5.2.a.8B.1

Where this paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day is zero.

5.2.a.8B.2

This paragraph applies where the hereditament is situated in Wales and where,
on the day concerned, conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations are satisfied.

5.2.a.8B.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2) may prescribe more than one condition or
set of conditions that may be satisfied such that this paragraph applies.

############## Power to vary or withdraw reliefs

5.2.a.8C

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend or repeal any provision in Parts
2 and 3 of this Schedule for the purposes of varying or withdrawing, in
relation to a hereditament in Wales, a relief set out in those Parts.

;

5.2.b

in paragraph 9, the table is amended as follows—

5.2.b.i

in the second row, for “Paragraphs 2 and 4” substitute  “Paragraph 2 and any
of 4 or 8A” ;

5.2.b.ii

in each place that it appears in the third and fourth rows, for “or 4”
substitute  “, 4 or 8A” ;

5.2.b.iii

after the fifth row, in the first column insert  “Paragraph 8B and any of 2, 4
or 8A” ;

5.2.b.iv

after the fifth row, in the second column insert  “Paragraph 8B” ;

5.2.c

after paragraph 9, insert—

5.2.c.9A

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend paragraph 9 for the purpose of
providing for the calculation of the chargeable amount in relation to any
hereditament in Wales in respect of which more than one paragraph in Parts 2
and 3 of this Schedule apply.

;

5.2.d

in paragraph 10, after sub-paragraph (6), insert—

5.2.d.6A

“F” is an amount prescribed, or calculated in accordance with provision
prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers in regulations.

5.2.d.6B

Regulations under sub-paragraph (6A) may prescribe different amounts, or make
different provision for calculating an amount, in relation to different
conditions or sets of conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations under paragraph 8A(2)(b)(i).

5.3

In Schedule 4ZB—

5.3.a

after paragraph 2, insert—

############# POWERS TO CONFER, VARY AND WITHDRAW RELIEFS: WALES

############## Power to confer partial reliefs: Wales

5.3.a.2A

5.3.a.2A.1

Where this paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament, the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day is to be calculated in accordance with the
formula—

  A × M C - F.

5.3.a.2A.2

This paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament where—

5.3.a.2A.2.a

the hereditament is situated in Wales, and

5.3.a.2A.2.b

on the day concerned, in relation to the hereditament—

5.3.a.2A.2.b.i

conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations are satisfied, and

5.3.a.2A.2.b.ii

F is an amount that is greater than 0 but less than the sum of—

  A × M C.

5.3.a.2A.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(i) may—

5.3.a.2A.3.a

prescribe more than one condition or set of conditions that may be satisfied
such that this paragraph applies;

5.3.a.2A.3.b

make provision about the application of more than one condition or set of
conditions in relation to a hereditament.

############## Power to confer additional full reliefs

5.3.a.2B

5.3.a.2B.1

Where this paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament, the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day is zero.

5.3.a.2B.2

This paragraph applies where the hereditament is situated in Wales and where,
on the day concerned, conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations are satisfied.

5.3.a.2B.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2) may prescribe more than one condition or
set of conditions that may be satisfied such that this paragraph applies.

############## Power to vary or withdraw reliefs

5.3.a.2C

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend or repeal any provision in Part 2
of this Schedule for the purpose of varying or withdrawing, in relation to a
hereditament in Wales, a relief set out in that Part.

############# CASES WHERE MORE THAN ONE RELIEF APPLIES: WALES

5.3.a.2D

5.3.a.2D.1

In relation to a hereditament in respect of which paragraph 2 and any of
paragraphs 2A or 2B apply, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is to be
calculated in accordance with paragraph 2.

5.3.a.2D.2

But if paragraph 2 does not apply in relation to a hereditament in respect of
which paragraphs 2A and 2B apply, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day
is to be calculated in accordance with paragraph 2B.

5.3.a.2E

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend paragraph 2D for the purpose of
providing for the calculation of the chargeable amount in relation to any
hereditament in Wales in respect of which more than one paragraph in Parts 2
and 2A of this Schedule apply.

;

5.3.b

in paragraph 3, after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

5.3.b.5A

“F” is an amount prescribed, or calculated in accordance with provision
prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers in regulations.

5.3.b.5B

Regulations under sub-paragraph (5A) may prescribe different amounts, or make
different provision for calculating an amount, in relation to different
conditions or sets of conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations under paragraph 2A(2)(b)(i).

5.4

In Schedule 5A—

5.4.a

after paragraph 4, insert—

############# POWERS TO CONFER, VARY AND WITHDRAW RELIEFS: WALES

############## Power to confer additional partial reliefs: Wales

5.4.a.4A

5.4.a.4A.1

Where this paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament, the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day is to be calculated in accordance with the
formula—

  A × M C - F.

5.4.a.4A.2

This paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament where—

5.4.a.4A.2.a

the hereditament is situated in Wales, and

5.4.a.4A.2.b

on the day concerned, in relation to the hereditament—

5.4.a.4A.2.b.i

conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations are satisfied, and

5.4.a.4A.2.b.ii

F is an amount that is greater than 0 but less than the sum of—

  A × M C.

5.4.a.4A.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(i) may—

5.4.a.4A.3.a

prescribe more than one condition or set of conditions that may be satisfied
such that this paragraph applies;

5.4.a.4A.3.b

make provision about the application of more than one condition or set of
conditions in relation to a hereditament.

############## Power to confer additional full reliefs

5.4.a.4B

5.4.a.4B.1

Where this paragraph applies in relation to a hereditament the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day is zero.

5.4.a.4B.2

This paragraph applies where the hereditament is situated in Wales and where,
on the day concerned, conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations are satisfied.

5.4.a.4B.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2) may prescribe more than one condition or
set of conditions that may be satisfied such that this paragraph applies.

############## Power to vary or withdraw reliefs

5.4.a.4C

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend or repeal any provision in Part 2
of this Schedule for the purpose of varying or withdrawing, in relation to a
hereditament in Wales, a relief set out in that Part.

;

5.4.b

in paragraph 5(1)(a), for “a central non-domestic rating list in force for the
year” substitute  “the central non-domestic rating list in force for the year
in relation to England” ;

5.4.c

after paragraph 5, insert—

5.4.c.5A

5.4.c.5A.1

This paragraph applies if—

5.4.c.5A.1.a

for any day in a financial year any description of hereditament is shown
against a person’s name in the central non-domestic rating list in force for
the year in relation to Wales, and

5.4.c.5A.1.b

more than one of paragraphs 2, 4A and 4B apply in relation to that description
of hereditament for that day.

5.4.c.5A.2

If paragraph 4B and any of paragraphs 2 or 4A apply in relation to that
description of hereditament for that day, the chargeable amount for that day
is to be calculated in accordance with paragraph 4B.

5.4.c.5A.3

But if paragraph 4B does not apply in relation to that description of
hereditament for that day, the chargeable amount for that day is to be
calculated in accordance with paragraph 2.

5.4.c.5B

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend paragraph 5A for the purpose of
providing for the calculation of the chargeable amount in relation to any
description of hereditament in Wales in respect of which more than one
paragraph in Parts 2 and 2A of this Schedule apply.

;

5.4.d

in paragraph 6, after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

5.4.d.5A

“F” is an amount prescribed, or calculated in accordance with provision
prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers in regulations.

5.4.d.5B

Regulations under sub-paragraph (5A) may prescribe different amounts, or
different provision for calculating an amount, in relation to different
conditions or sets of conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations under paragraph 4A(2)(b)(i).

##### Unoccupied hereditaments: charitable rate relief

6

6.1

Schedule 4ZB to the 1988 Act is amended as follows.

6.2

In paragraph 2(2), after “applies” insert  “in relation to England” .

6.3

After paragraph 2(2), insert—

6.3.3

This paragraph applies in relation to Wales where—

6.3.3.a

on the day concerned, the ratepayer is a charity or trustees for a charity,

6.3.3.b

the billing authority is satisfied that—

6.3.3.b.i

the hereditament is unoccupied on the day concerned for a reason related to
the charitable purposes of the charity (or of that and other charities), and

6.3.3.b.ii

when next in use the hereditament will be wholly or mainly used for the
charitable purposes of the charity (or of that and other charities), and

6.3.3.c

the trustees for the charity have provided the billing authority with a copy
of—

6.3.3.c.i

the charity’s most recent accounts as set out in sub-paragraph (4), and

6.3.3.c.ii

if an annual report is required to be prepared under section 162(1) or 168(3)
of the Charities Act 2011, the charity’s most recent report.

6.3.4

The accounts of a charity referred to in sub-paragraph (3)(c)(i) are—

6.3.4.a

in the case of a charitable company, its annual accounts prepared under Part
16 of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to which any of the following
conditions is satisfied—

6.3.4.a.i

they have been audited,

6.3.4.a.ii

they have been examined by an independent examiner under section 145(1)(a) of
the Charities Act 2011, or

6.3.4.a.iii

they relate to a year in respect of which the company is exempt from audit
under Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and neither section 144(2) nor section
145(1) of the Charities Act 2011 applies;

6.3.4.b

in the case of an exempt charity, the accounts audited in pursuance of any
statutory or other requirement or, if its accounts are not required to be
audited, the accounts prepared in respect of the charity;

6.3.4.c

in the case of all other charities, the statement of accounts prepared under
section 132(1) of the Charities Act 2011 or the account and statement prepared
under section 133 of that Act.

6.3.5

The reference in sub-paragraph (3)(c)(i) to a charity’s accounts includes, in
relation to a charity whose trustees have prepared group accounts under
section 138(2) of the Charities Act 2011, those group accounts.

6.3.6

The reference in sub-paragraph (3)(c) to “ most recent ” in relation to a
charity’s accounts and report means most recently prepared, audited or
examined (as the case may be) before the day concerned.

6.3.7

In sub-paragraphs (4) and (5)—

      “ charitable company ” has the meaning given by section 193 of the
Charities Act 2011;           “ exempt charity ” has the meaning given by
section 22(1) of the Charities Act 2011;           “ group accounts ” has the
meaning given by section 142 of the Charities Act 2011.

6.3.8

This paragraph also applies in relation to Wales where—

6.3.8.a

on the day concerned, the ratepayer is a registered club for the purposes of
Chapter 9 of Part 13 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 (community amateur sports
clubs), and

6.3.8.b

the billing authority is satisfied that when next in use the hereditament will
be wholly or mainly used—

6.3.8.b.i

for the purposes of that club and that club will be such a registered club, or

6.3.8.b.ii

for the purposes of two or more clubs including that club, and each of those
clubs will be such a registered club.

#### Completion notices

##### Completion notices for new buildings

7

7.1

Section 46A of the 1988 Act is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (6), after paragraph (b)(iii) insert—

7.2.iv

a building that has been subject to alterations where the building is
comprised in a hereditament situated in Wales that was (but is no longer)
shown in a list.

#### Discretionary relief

##### Discretionary relief: time limit

8

8.1

Section 47 of the 1988 Act is amended as follows.

8.2

After subsection (6A), insert—

8.2.6B

A decision under subsection (3) by a billing authority in Wales is invalid as
regards a day if—

8.2.6B.a

the day falls before the end of the financial year beginning on 1 April 2023,
and

8.2.6B.b

the decision is made more than six months after the end of the financial year
in which the day falls.

8.3

Omit subsection (7).

#### Exemptions

##### Powers to confer, vary and withdraw exemption

9

9.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

9.2

In Schedule 5, after paragraph 20 insert—

########### Powers to confer, vary and withdraw exemption: Wales

9.2.20A

9.2.20A.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations, for the purpose in sub-paragraph (2)—

9.2.20A.1.a

insert provision in relation to Wales into this Schedule;

9.2.20A.1.b

amend, revoke or repeal, in relation to Wales—

9.2.20A.1.b.i

any provision inserted into this Schedule under paragraph (a);

9.2.20A.1.b.ii

any other provision in this Schedule.

9.2.20A.2

The purpose is to confer, vary or withdraw an exemption from the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day.

#### Non-domestic rating multipliers

##### Calculation of non-domestic rating multipliers

10

In Schedule 7 to the 1988 Act, after Part A1 insert—

######### NON-DOMESTIC RATING MULTIPLIERS: WALES

########## Introduction

10.A13

This Part of this Schedule has effect to determine, in relation to Wales, the
non-domestic rating multiplier for each chargeable financial year.

########## Calculation of non-domestic rating multiplier: revaluation years

10.A14

10.A14.1

The non-domestic rating multiplier for a revaluation year is to be calculated
in accordance with the formula—

  A × B × D C × E.

10.A14.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

10.A14.2.a

“A” is the non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year preceding the
year concerned;

10.A14.2.b

“B” is the consumer prices index for September of the financial year preceding
the year concerned;

10.A14.2.c

“C” is—

10.A14.2.c.i

the consumer prices index for September of the financial year which precedes
that preceding the year concerned, or

10.A14.2.c.ii

where the base month for the consumer prices index for September of the
financial year which precedes that preceding the year concerned (the first
year) differs from that for the index for September of the year which precedes
the year concerned (the second year), the figure which the Welsh Ministers
calculate would have been the consumer prices index for September of the first
year if the base month for that index had been the same as the base month for
the index for September of the second year;

10.A14.2.d

“D” is the number of whole pounds in the Welsh Ministers’ estimate of the
total of the appropriate rateable values of all appropriate hereditaments,
where—

10.A14.2.d.i

appropriate rateable values are those which will be shown in lists for the
last day of the financial year preceding the year concerned once all
alterations to those lists have been made, and

10.A14.2.d.ii

appropriate hereditaments are those which will be shown in lists for that day
once all alterations to those lists have been made;

10.A14.2.e

“E” is the number of whole pounds in the Welsh Ministers’ estimate of the
total of the appropriate rateable values of all appropriate hereditaments,
where—

10.A14.2.e.i

appropriate rateable values are those which will be shown in lists for the
first day of the financial year concerned once all alterations to those lists
have been made (including rateable values which will be shown in lists for a
later day as a result of any alterations of the lists because of the
inaccuracy of the lists for that first day), and

10.A14.2.e.ii

appropriate hereditaments are those which will be shown in lists for that
first day once all alterations to those lists have been made.

10.A14.3

The Welsh Ministers must make estimates under sub-paragraph (2)(d) and (e) on
the basis of information available to them on such date as they determine.

10.A14.4

But this paragraph does not apply for the purposes of—

10.A14.4.a

Schedules 4ZA and 4ZB, in respect of a hereditament of a description specified
in regulations under paragraph A16(1)(a);

10.A14.4.b

Schedule 5A, in respect of an amount of a rateable value shown against the
name of a designated person in the central non-domestic rating list specified
in regulations under paragraph A16(1)(b).

########## Calculation of non-domestic rating multiplier: other years

10.A15

10.A15.1

The non-domestic rating multiplier for a chargeable financial year other than
a revaluation year is—

10.A15.1.a

the default amount, or

10.A15.1.b

if the Welsh Ministers make an adjustment to that amount under sub-paragraph
(4), that amount as adjusted.

10.A15.2

The default amount is to be calculated in accordance with the formula—

  A × B C.

10.A15.3

In sub-paragraph (2), “ A ”, “ B ” and “ C ” have the meanings given in
paragraph A14.

10.A15.4

The Welsh Ministers may make an adjustment to the default amount to reflect
the extent to which their last estimate of the total mentioned in paragraph
A14(2)(d) or (e) appears to them to differ from the actual total.

10.A15.5

But this paragraph does not apply for the purposes of—

10.A15.5.a

Schedules 4ZA and 4ZB, in respect of a hereditament of a description specified
in regulations under paragraph A16(1)(a);

10.A15.5.b

Schedule 5A, in respect of an amount of a rateable value shown against the
name of a designated person in the central non-domestic rating list specified
in regulations under paragraph A16(1)(b).

########## Calculation of differential multipliers

10.A16

10.A16.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations provide that the non-domestic rating
multiplier for a chargeable financial year in respect of—

10.A16.1.a

a description, specified in regulations, of hereditaments on local non-
domestic rating lists, or

10.A16.1.b

an amount (or amounts), of a rateable value shown against the name of a
designated person in the central non-domestic rating list,

is to be calculated in accordance with the formula—

  M × N.

10.A16.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

10.A16.2.a

“M” is the non-domestic rating multiplier for the chargeable financial year
under paragraph A14 or A15 (as the case may be);

10.A16.2.b

“N” is a number prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations.

10.A16.3

Regulations under this paragraph may prescribe different values for N in
relation to—

10.A16.3.a

different specified descriptions of hereditaments on local non-domestic rating
lists;

10.A16.3.b

different specified amounts of rateable values shown against the names of
designated persons in the central non-domestic rating list.

10.A16.4

But regulations under this paragraph may only specify descriptions of
hereditaments on local non-domestic rating lists by reference to one or more
of—

10.A16.4.a

the rateable value shown in the list for—

10.A16.4.a.i

the chargeable day concerned, or

10.A16.4.a.ii

the first day of the financial year,

as regards a hereditament;

10.A16.4.b

the location shown in the list as regards a hereditament;

10.A16.4.c

any description shown in the list for—

10.A16.4.c.i

the chargeable day concerned, or

10.A16.4.c.ii

the first day of the financial year,

as regards a hereditament.

10.A16.5

Regulations under sub-paragraph (1)(b) may specify an amount of a rateable
value by reference to a range of amounts.

########## Calculation of differential multipliers: supplementary

10.A17

10.A17.1

Where paragraph 3 of Schedule 4ZA (improvement relief) applies in respect of a
hereditament, regulations under paragraph A16 apply in respect of that
hereditament as though the amount of the rateable value shown for the day in
respect of the hereditament under section 42(4) is the amount of that rateable
value minus G.

10.A17.2

Where paragraph 3 of Schedule 5A (improvement relief) applies, regulations
under paragraph A16 apply in respect of the amount of the rateable value shown
for the day against the name of the ratepayer under section 53(3) as though
the amount shown for that day is the amount of that rateable value minus G.

10.A17.3

In sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), “G” is the amount prescribed, or calculated in
accordance with provision prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph
10(7) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(6) of Schedule 5A (as the case may be).

10.A17.4

If—

10.A17.4.a

regulations are made under paragraph A16(3)(a), and

10.A17.4.b

more than one of the descriptions specified in the regulations applies in
respect of a hereditament,

that hereditament is to be treated as though only the description in respect
of which the value of N is lowest applies.

########## Welsh Ministers’ power to alter the calculations for non-domestic rating multipliers

10.A18

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend, repeal or disapply paragraph A14
or A15 so as to—

10.A18.a

substitute for references to the consumer prices index references to another
index, or

10.A18.b

provide that—

10.A18.b.i

B is a figure specified or described in (or calculated in a manner specified
in) the regulations;

10.A18.b.ii

C is a figure so specified or described (or so calculated).

########## Making and giving notice of calculations etc.

10.A19

10.A19.1

The Welsh Ministers must, in advance of each chargeable financial year—

10.A19.1.a

calculate for that year—

10.A19.1.a.i

the non-domestic rating multiplier under paragraph A14 or A15 (as the case may
be), and

10.A19.1.a.ii

if regulations under paragraph A16 are in force, the non-domestic rating
multiplier under that paragraph, and

10.A19.1.b

as soon as is reasonably practicable after doing so, serve on each billing
authority a notice stating the non-domestic rating multipliers as calculated
under paragraph (a).

10.A19.2

In calculating a multiplier, a part of a whole (if any) is to be calculated to
three decimal places only.

10.A19.3

The notice must show how any calculation has been made and contain details of
any estimates or adjustments that have been made.

10.A19.4

Where the financial year is one for which the Welsh Ministers have calculated
a figure for C under paragraph A14(2)(c)(ii), the notice must contain the
figure they have calculated.

10.A19.5

Where the financial year is a revaluation year, the notice must specify the
date determined under paragraph A14(3) for the purpose of making estimates
under paragraph A14(2)(d) and (e).

10.A19.6

A calculation made by the Welsh Ministers under this paragraph is invalid if
made at a time when regulations under paragraph A18 which are effective in
relation to the year have not come into force.

########## Interpretation

10.A20

10.A20.1

In this Part—

10.A20.1.a

“ the consumer prices index ” means the general index of consumer prices (for
all items) published by the Statistics Board or, if that index is not
published for a relevant month, any substituted index or index figures
published by the Board;

10.A20.1.b

“the base month” for the consumer prices index for September of a particular
year is the month for which the consumer prices index is taken to be 100 and
by reference to which the index for the September in question is calculated.

10.A20.2

In this Part “revaluation year means a chargeable financial year at the
beginning of which new lists must be compiled (see sections 41ZA(3) and
52ZA(3)).

##### Calculation of non-domestic rating multipliers: supplementary provision

11

11.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

11.2

In Schedule 4ZA—

11.2.a

in paragraph 1, for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute “in accordance with the
formula—

  A × M C

11.2.b

in paragraph 2(1), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute

in accordance with the formula—

  A × M C × 5

;

11.2.c

in paragraph 4(1), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute

in accordance with the formula—

  A × M C × E

;

11.2.d

in paragraph 10, after sub-paragraph (9) insert—

11.2.d.9A

In relation to Wales, “M is the non-domestic rating multiplier calculated
under Schedule 7 as regards the hereditament for the financial year.

11.3

In Schedule 4ZB—

11.3.a

in paragraph 1(1), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute

in accordance with the formula—

  A × M C

;

11.3.b

in paragraph 1(2)—

11.3.b.i

in paragraph (a) for “Secretary of State may by regulations provide that sub-
paragraph (1)(a)” substitute  “appropriate national authority may by
regulations provide that sub-paragraph (1)” ;

11.3.b.ii

omit paragraph (b).

11.3.c

in paragraph 3(6), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

11.3.c.a

in relation to England—

11.3.c.a.i

whichever of B or D is prescribed for the purposes of the provision in
question by the Treasury in regulations, or

11.3.c.a.ii

for the purposes of a provision where there is no such prescription, B;

11.3.c.b

in relation to Wales, the non-domestic rating multiplier calculated under
Schedule 7 as regards the hereditament for the financial year.

11.4

In Schedule 5A—

11.4.a

in paragraph 1, for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute

in accordance with the formula—

  A × M C

;

11.4.b

in paragraph 2(4), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute

in accordance with the formula—

  A × M C × 5

;

11.4.c

in paragraph 6(8), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

11.4.c.a

in relation to England—

11.4.c.a.i

whichever of B or D is prescribed for the purposes of the provision in
question by the Treasury in regulations, or

11.4.c.a.ii

for the purposes of a provision where there is no such prescription, B;

11.4.c.b

in relation to Wales, the non-domestic rating multiplier calculated under
Schedule 7 as regards the hereditament for the financial year.

#### Provision of information

##### Information to be provided to valuation officer

12

12.1

Schedule 9 to the 1988 Act is amended as follows.

12.2

Before paragraph 4I, in the italic heading, omit “: England”.

12.3

In paragraph 4I—

12.3.a

omit “, in relation to a hereditament situated in England,”;

12.3.b

in sub-paragraph (a), for “the hereditament” substitute  “a hereditament” ;

12.3.c

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the hereditament” in the first place it appears
substitute  “a hereditament” .

12.4

In paragraph 4J(4)—

12.4.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

12.4.b

after paragraph (b), insert—

, or

12.4.b.c

in relation to a hereditament situated in Wales, such longer period as may be
agreed with the valuation officer.

12.5

In paragraph 4M(1), omit “situated in England”.

12.6

In paragraph 5ZC, after sub-paragraph (4), insert—

12.6.4A

If a penalty notice is served under sub-paragraph (4) in relation to a
hereditament situated in Wales, the notice must include an explanation of the
effect of paragraph 5BD(9).

12.7

In paragraph 5A(1), for “56” substitute  “60” .

12.8

In paragraph 5C(2), for “28” substitute  “30” .

#### Anti-avoidance

##### Artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangements

13

After section 63E of the 1988 Act insert—

######### Anti-avoidance: Wales

########## Artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangements: introduction

13.63F

13.63F.1

This section and sections 63G to 63M make provision in relation to Wales about
counteracting advantages, in respect of liability to non-domestic rating, from
artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangements.

13.63F.2

For the purposes of this section and sections 63G to 63M, an arrangement is an
“artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangement” if—

13.63F.2.a

in consequence of the arrangement, a person obtains or will obtain an
advantage in relation to non-domestic rating (see section 63G), and

13.63F.2.b

the arrangement is artificial (see section 63H).

13.63F.3

For the purposes of this section and sections 63G to 63M, “ an arrangement ”
includes (among other things) any action, event, agreement, operation,
promise, scheme, transaction, understanding or undertaking (whether legally
enforceable or not), and references to an arrangement are to be read as
including—

13.63F.3.a

a series of arrangements, and

13.63F.3.b

any part or stage of an arrangement comprised of more than one part or stage.

########## Meaning of “advantage”

13.63G

For the purposes of sections 63F to 63M, “ an advantage ” means the avoidance
or reduction of liability to non-domestic rating, by means of (among other
things)—

13.63G.a

avoidance of an assessment;

13.63G.b

remission;

13.63G.c

relief (or increased relief);

13.63G.d

repayment (or increased repayment);

13.63G.e

deferral of a payment.

########## Meaning of “artificial”

13.63H

13.63H.1

For the purposes of sections 63F to 63M, an arrangement is artificial if—

13.63H.1.a

it is of a type specified by the Welsh Ministers by regulations, and

13.63H.1.b

where subsection (3) applies, no determination has been made in relation to
the (particular) arrangement.

13.63H.2

The regulations may only specify a type of arrangement if making an
arrangement of that type would not be a reasonable course of action in
relation to the provisions of enactments relating to non-domestic rating,
having regard in particular to—

13.63H.2.a

whether the substantive results of arrangements of that type are inconsistent
with—

13.63H.2.a.i

any principles on which those provisions are based (whether express or
implied), and

13.63H.2.a.ii

the policy objectives of those provisions;

13.63H.2.b

whether arrangements of that type are intended to exploit any shortcomings in
those provisions;

13.63H.2.c

whether arrangements of that type lack economic or commercial substance (other
than obtaining an advantage in relation to non-domestic rating).

13.63H.3

The regulations may provide that a particular arrangement of a type specified
under subsection (1)(a) is not artificial if a determination to that effect is
made, in accordance with the regulations and having regard to all the
circumstances, by—

13.63H.3.a

a billing authority in Wales, in connection with the authority’s local non-
domestic rating list;

13.63H.3.b

the Welsh Ministers, in connection with a central non-domestic rating list for
Wales.

13.63H.4

In this section “ enactments relating to non-domestic rating ” means—

13.63H.4.a

this Act,

13.63H.4.b

the Business Rate Supplements Act  2009 (c. 7) , and

13.63H.4.c

any subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the Interpretation Act
1978 (c. 30) ) made under those Acts.

########## Liability to non-domestic rating: local lists

13.63I

13.63I.1

Subsections (2) to (5) apply if, in connection with a billing authority in
Wales’ local non-domestic rating list, an artificial non-domestic rating
avoidance arrangement has been made.

13.63I.2

The billing authority must, from the relevant date—

13.63I.2.a

treat the ratepayer as liable under section 43 or 45 to pay the chargeable
amount for a chargeable day that would have been, or would be, payable in
respect of that day in the absence of the arrangement, or

13.63I.2.b

treat as liable the person who would have been, or would be, the ratepayer in
the absence of the arrangement (and treat them as liable under section 43 or
45 to pay the chargeable amount for a chargeable day that would have been, or
would be, payable in respect of that day in the absence of the arrangement).

13.63I.3

The provisions of this Act apply in relation to the persons mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) and (b) as if they were liable under section 43 or 45.

13.63I.4

In subsection (2), “ the relevant date ” means the later of—

13.63I.4.a

the day the arrangement mentioned in subsection (1) is made;

13.63I.4.b

the day the applicable regulations come into force;

13.63I.4.c

a day provided for in those regulations.

13.63I.5

In subsection (4)(b), “ the applicable regulations ” means the regulations
under section 63H(1)(a) that specify the type of arrangement within which the
arrangement mentioned in subsection (1) falls.

########## Liability to non-domestic rating: central lists

13.63J

13.63J.1

Subsections (2) to (5) apply if, in connection with a central non-domestic
rating list for Wales, an artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangement
has been made.

13.63J.2

The Welsh Ministers must, from the relevant date—

13.63J.2.a

treat the ratepayer as liable under section 54 to pay the chargeable amount
for a chargeable day that would have been, or would be, payable in respect of
that day in the absence of the arrangement, or

13.63J.2.b

treat as liable the person who would have been, or would be, the ratepayer in
the absence of the arrangement (and treat them as liable under section 54 to
pay the chargeable amount for a chargeable day that would have been, or would
be, payable in respect of that day in the absence of the arrangement).

13.63J.3

The provisions of this Act apply in relation to the persons mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) and (b) as if they were liable under section 54.

13.63J.4

In subsection (2), “ the relevant date ” means the later of—

13.63J.4.a

the day the arrangement mentioned in subsection (1) is made;

13.63J.4.b

the day the applicable regulations come into force;

13.63J.4.c

a day provided for in those regulations.

13.63J.5

In subsection (4)(b), “ the applicable regulations ” means the regulations
under section 63H(1)(a) that specify the type of arrangement within which the
arrangement mentioned in subsection (1) falls.

########## Liability to non-domestic rating: notification

13.63K

13.63K.1

The billing authority must give notice to a person who is to be treated as
liable in accordance with section 63I.

13.63K.2

The Welsh Ministers must give notice to a person who is to be treated as
liable in accordance with section 63J.

13.63K.3

A notice under subsection (1) or (2) must set out—

13.63K.3.a

the reasons for treating the person as liable,

13.63K.3.b

information about requiring a review under subsection (4), and

13.63K.3.c

information about the right of appeal under section 63L.

13.63K.4

A person who receives a notice under subsection (1) or (2) may require a
review of it by making a request in writing to the billing authority or the
Welsh Ministers (as the case may be) within 30 days beginning with the date of
the notice under subsection (1) or (2).

13.63K.5

The review must conclude that the notice under subsection (1) or (2) is to be
either—

13.63K.5.a

confirmed, or

13.63K.5.b

withdrawn (in which case the arrangement subject to the notice is to be taken
as not having been an artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangement).

13.63K.6

The billing authority or the Welsh Ministers must notify the person of the
conclusion of the review and their reasoning within 30 days beginning with the
day on which the request was made under subsection (4).

13.63K.7

Notices under this section must be in writing.

########## Appeals to valuation tribunal

13.63L

13.63L.1

This section applies where a person is given a notice under section 63K(1) or
(2) that is confirmed in accordance with section 63K(5).

13.63L.2

The person may appeal to a valuation tribunal established under paragraph 1 of
Schedule 11 within 30 days beginning with the day on which the billing
authority or the Welsh Ministers notify the person of their conclusions in
accordance with section 63K(6).

13.63L.3

The valuation tribunal may confirm the notice or require it to be withdrawn
(in which case the arrangement subject to the notice is to be taken as not
having been an artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangement).

########## Penalties

13.63M

13.63M.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision for the imposition of a
financial penalty where—

13.63M.1.a

a person has been given a notice under section 63K(1) or (2) and it has not
been withdrawn,

13.63M.1.b

the time limit for requesting a review under section 63K(4) has expired and,
if a review has been requested, the time limit for appealing under section 63L
has expired, and

13.63M.1.c

the person has failed to pay an amount due to a billing authority or the Welsh
Ministers in consequence of having made an artificial non-domestic rating
avoidance arrangement.

13.63M.2

The maximum penalty that may be specified in the regulations is £500 plus 3%
of the rateable value of the hereditament on the date of the notice under
section 63K(1) or (2).

13.63M.3

The artificial non-domestic rating avoidance arrangement is to be ignored when
determining the rateable value of the hereditament for the purposes of
subsection (2).

13.63M.4

Any sum received by way of penalty under this section is to be paid into the
Welsh Consolidated Fund.

13.63M.5

The regulations may make further provision in relation to the collection and
enforcement of penalties under this section.

13.63M.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend subsection (2) by substituting a
different amount for the penalty for the time being specified in that
subsection.

#### Orders and regulations

##### Orders and regulations under the Local Government Finance Act 1988

14

After section 143 of the 1988 Act insert—

######### Orders and regulations of the Welsh Ministers

14.143A

14.143A.1

This section applies in respect of the powers of the Welsh Ministers to make
an order or regulations under this Act.

14.143A.2

Any power to which this section applies—

14.143A.2.a

is exercisable by statutory instrument, and

14.143A.2.b

may be exercised differently in relation to different areas or in relation to
other different cases or descriptions of case.

14.143A.3

An order or regulations made under powers to which this section applies may
include such supplementary, incidental, consequential, transitional or saving
provisions as appear to the Welsh Ministers to be necessary or expedient.

14.143A.4

Subject to subsections (5) and (6), a statutory instrument containing an order
or regulations made by the Welsh Ministers under powers to which this section
applies is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

14.143A.5

The Welsh Ministers may not make a statutory instrument containing an order or
regulations under the following provisions unless a draft of the instrument
has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru—

14.143A.5.a

section 54AB(1);

14.143A.5.b

section 55(4A)(c) or (4B);

14.143A.5.c

section 58;

14.143A.5.d

section 63A;

14.143A.5.e

section 63H;

14.143A.5.f

section 63M(1) or (6);

14.143A.5.g

section 66A;

14.143A.5.h

in Schedule 4ZA, paragraphs 3(3), 6(3), 8A(2)(b)(i), 8B(2), 8C, 9A and 10(6A);

14.143A.5.i

in Schedule 4ZB, paragraphs 1(2), 2A(2)(b)(i), 2B(2), 2C, 2E, 3(5A) and 3(9);

14.143A.5.j

paragraph 20A of Schedule 5;

14.143A.5.k

in Schedule 5A, paragraphs 3(4), 4A(2)(b)(i), 4B(2), 4C, 5B and 6(5A);

14.143A.5.l

paragraph 3 of Schedule 6;

14.143A.5.m

Part A2 of Schedule 7;

14.143A.5.n

in Schedule 9, paragraphs 5(1D)(c), 5FB, 6AA(1) and (6).

14.143A.6

Subsection (4) does not apply to a statutory instrument containing only
regulations under section 75 or 118 other than regulations relating to an
internal drainage board.

14.143A.7

But before making regulations under section 75 or 118 other than regulations
relating to an internal drainage board, the Welsh Ministers must take such
steps as they think reasonably practicable to bring the contents of the
proposed regulations to the notice of persons likely to be affected.

#### Minor and consequential amendments

##### Minor and consequential amendments relating to Part 1

15

The Schedule makes minor and consequential amendments relating to this Part.

### COUNCIL TAX

#### Introduction

##### Overview of Part 2

16

16.1

This Part amends the Local Government Finance Act  1992 (c. 14)  (“ the 1992
Act ”), in relation to Wales, as follows.

16.2

Section 17 restates existing powers of the Welsh Ministers to amend valuation
bands of dwellings, and also enables the Welsh Ministers to amend the
valuation band used as an average in formulas applied under sections 36 and 47
of the 1992 Act used to calculate the amount of council tax that is payable.

16.3

Section 18(2) and (3) disapplies provisions in sections 6 and 9 of the 1992
Act about the persons who are exempt from being jointly and severally liable
to pay council tax in respect of a chargeable dwelling, and replaces them with
a power for the Welsh Ministers to prescribe by regulations which persons are
to be exempt.

16.4

Section 18(4) and (5) disapplies provisions in section 11 of the 1992 Act for
discounts (of percentages specified in section 11 or by order) to be
applicable where there is only one resident of a chargeable dwelling (or only
one who is not disregarded for the purpose of a discount), or where there is
no resident (or all residents are disregarded), and replaces them with—

16.4.a

provision for discounts (of amounts prescribed, or calculated in accordance
with provision prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers in regulations) to apply
where there is only one resident (or only one who is not disregarded for the
purpose of a discount), or where all of a dwelling’s residents are
disregarded,

16.4.b

a power for the Welsh Ministers to provide by regulations that discounts apply
where other criteria are met,

16.4.c

a power for the Welsh Ministers to make provision about cases where more than
one discount applies (including about how much council tax is payable), and

16.4.d

a power for the Welsh Ministers to prescribe by regulations classes of
dwelling for which a billing authority may determine that a lesser discount,
or no discount, applies.

16.5

In consequence—

16.5.a

section 18(6) repeals section 12 of the 1992 Act, which related to the
specific discount that applied where there was no resident, and which included
a power for a billing authority to determine that (for classes of dwelling
prescribed by the Welsh Ministers) a lesser discount, or no discount, applied;

16.5.b

section 18(7) amends section 12A of the 1992 Act so that where a billing
authority determines that the amount of council tax payable in respect of
long-term empty dwellings is subject to a percentage increase, the authority
will no longer disapply the (for Wales, repealed) no-resident discount, and
will instead subtract any applicable discount after adding the percentage
increase;

16.5.c

section 18(8) amends section 12B of the 1992 Act (higher amount for dwellings
occupied periodically) in the same ways as section 18(7) amends section 12A.

16.6

Section 18 also disapplies Schedule 1 to the 1992 Act (which, together with
section 11(5), made provision about persons disregarded for the purposes of
determining whether a discount applies), and replaces it with a power for the
Welsh Ministers to prescribe by regulations who is disregarded for the
purposes of discount.

16.7

Section 19—

16.7.a

changes the power in section 13 of the 1992 Act, that enables the Welsh
Ministers to make regulations providing for persons liable to pay council tax
to pay a reduced amount in some circumstances, into an obligation to make such
regulations,

16.7.b

repeals the power in section 13A for the Welsh Ministers to require a person
or body to make a council tax reduction scheme and related provisions, and

16.7.c

amends section 66(2) of the 1992 Act to add matters prescribed or provided for
in accordance with subsection (1) or (2) of section 13 to a list of matters
that may not be questioned except by an application for judicial review.

16.8

Section [ ] replaces the obligations on billing authorities in sections 12A,
12B and 38 of the 1992 Act to publish notices in a newspaper with an
obligation to publish those notices electronically, and to make alternative
arrangements for those unable to access notices electronically.

16.9

Section 20 changes section 22B of the 1992 Act so that the Welsh Ministers’
power to specify the year when new valuation lists must be compiled for
billing authorities in Wales cannot be exercised to specify a year later than
2029. It also introduces a requirement for such lists to be compiled in 2030
and every 5 years after that (although the years can be changed, by order, by
the Welsh Ministers).

#### Changes to valuation bands

##### Calculation of tax for different valuation bands

17

In section 5 of the 1992 Act—

17.a

in subsection (4)—

17.a.i

after “the Secretary of State” insert  “, in relation to England,” ;

17.a.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “or (3)”;

17.b

in subsection (4A), omit “or (3)”;

17.c

after subsection (4A), insert—

17.c.4B

The Welsh Ministers, in relation to Wales, may by order, as regards financial
years beginning on or after such date as is specified in the order—

17.c.4B.a

amend subsection (1A), so as to substitute another proportion for that which
is for the time being effective for the purposes of subsection (1) above;

17.c.4B.b

substitute other valuation bands for those which are for the time being
effective for the purposes of subsection (3) above;

17.c.4B.c

substitute another valuation band for that referred to in the meaning given to
“D” in the formula in section 36(1);

17.c.4B.d

substitute another valuation band for that referred to in the meaning given to
“D” in the formula in section 47(1).

17.c.4C

The power under subsection (4B)(b) above includes power to make provision for
a different number of valuation bands from those which are for the time being
effective for the purposes of subsection (3) above.

;

17.d

after subsection (5), insert—

17.d.5A

No order under subsection (4B) may be made unless a draft of the order has
been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

#### Changes to council tax payable

##### Discounts

18

18.1

The 1992 Act is amended as follows.

18.2

In section 6—

18.2.a

in subsection (4), for “for the purposes of discount by virtue of paragraph 2
(severely mentally impaired) or 4 (students etc.) of Schedule 1 to this Act”
substitute  “in accordance with subsection (4C)” ;

18.2.b

omit subsections (4A) and (4B);

18.2.c

before subsection (5), insert—

18.2.c.4C

For the purposes of subsection (4), a person mentioned in subsection (3) falls
to be disregarded if—

18.2.c.4C.a

in relation to a chargeable dwelling in England, the person falls to be
disregarded for the purposes of discount by virtue of paragraph 2 (severely
mentally impaired) or 4 (students etc.) of Schedule 1 to this Act;

18.2.c.4C.b

in relation to a chargeable dwelling in Wales, the person—

18.2.c.4C.b.i

falls to be disregarded for the purposes of discount by virtue of regulations
made under section 11E(5), and

18.2.c.4C.b.ii

is also prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations made under this
paragraph as falling to be disregarded for the purposes of subsection (4).

18.2.c.4D

A statutory instrument containing regulations made under subsection
(4C)(b)(ii) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

18.3

In section 9—

18.3.a

in subsection (2), for “for the purposes of discount by virtue of paragraph 2
(the severely mentally impaired) or 4 (students etc.) of Schedule 1 to this
Act” substitute  “in accordance with subsection (2A)” ;

18.3.b

for subsection (2A), substitute—

18.3.b.2A

For the purposes of subsection (2), a person mentioned in subsection (1) falls
to be disregarded if—

18.3.b.2A.a

in relation to a chargeable dwelling in England, the person falls to be
disregarded for the purposes of discount by virtue of paragraph 2 (severely
mentally impaired) or 4 (students etc.) of Schedule 1 to this Act;

18.3.b.2A.b

in relation to a chargeable dwelling in Wales, the person falls to be
disregarded for the purposes of section 6(4) (see subsection (4C) of that
section).

18.4

In section 11—

18.4.a

in the heading, after “Discounts”, insert  “: England” ;

18.4.b

in subsection (1), after “any chargeable dwelling”, insert  “in England” ;

18.4.c

in subsection (2)—

18.4.c.i

for “11C, 12, 12A and 12B”, substitute  “and 11C” ;

18.4.c.ii

after “any chargeable dwelling”, insert  “in England” ;

18.4.d

in subsection (5), at the end, insert  “in relation to any chargeable dwelling
in England” .

18.5

After section 11D, insert—

########### Discounts: Wales

18.5.11E

18.5.11E.1

Where subsection (2) or (3) apply in respect of any chargeable dwelling in
Wales and any day, the amount of council tax payable in respect of the
dwelling for the day is subject to a discount of an amount prescribed, or
calculated in accordance with provision prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations (but see also section 11F).

18.5.11E.2

This subsection applies where, on the day concerned—

18.5.11E.2.a

any of the following criteria is met—

18.5.11E.2.a.i

there is only one resident of the dwelling and that resident does not fall to
be disregarded for the purposes of discount,

18.5.11E.2.a.ii

there are two or more residents of the dwelling and each of them except one
falls to be disregarded for the purposes of discount, or

18.5.11E.2.a.iii

there are one or more residents of the dwelling and each of them falls to be
disregarded for the purposes of discount, and

18.5.11E.2.b

any further conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations are
met.

18.5.11E.3

This subsection applies where, on the day concerned, such other criteria as
may be prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations are met.

18.5.11E.4

Regulations made under subsection (1) may—

18.5.11E.4.a

prescribe a different amount of discount, or different provision for
calculating an amount of discount, in relation to different criteria
(including in relation to any criteria prescribed in accordance with
subsection (3));

18.5.11E.4.b

make provision about cases where more than one discount applies (including,
but not limited to, making provision about the amount of council tax that is
payable).

18.5.11E.5

For the purpose of subsection (2), a person falls to be disregarded for the
purposes of discount if the person is of a description prescribed by the Welsh
Ministers in regulations.

18.5.11E.6

Regulations made under subsection (2)(b) or (3) may prescribe conditions or
criteria (as the case may be) by reference to—

18.5.11E.6.a

the type or physical characteristics of, or other matters relating to,
dwellings;

18.5.11E.6.b

the circumstances of, or other matters relating to, any person who is liable
to the amount of council tax concerned.

18.5.11E.7

Any statutory instrument containing regulations made under this section may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

########### Discounts: Wales (less discount or no discount)

18.5.11F

18.5.11F.1

Where council tax payable in respect of any chargeable dwelling in Wales and
any day is subject to a discount because section 11E(1) applies, the Welsh
Ministers may for any financial year by regulations prescribe classes of
dwelling in relation to which the amount of the discount is subject to any
determination made in accordance with subsection (2).

18.5.11F.2

For any financial year, a billing authority in Wales may determine in relation
to its area, or such part of its area as it may specify, that the discount in
relation to a class of dwellings prescribed—

18.5.11F.2.a

does not apply, or

18.5.11F.2.b

is less than the amount of discount prescribed or calculated under section
11E(1).

18.5.11F.3

A class of dwellings may be prescribed under subsection (1) by reference to—

18.5.11F.3.a

the type or physical characteristics of, or other matters relating to,
dwellings;

18.5.11F.3.b

the circumstances of, or other matters relating to, any person who is liable
to the amount of council tax concerned.

18.5.11F.4

A billing authority may vary or revoke a determination for a financial year,
but only before the beginning of that year.

18.5.11F.5

A billing authority that makes a determination under this section must, before
the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the day the determination is
made—

18.5.11F.5.a

publish a notice of the determination electronically, and

18.5.11F.5.b

make arrangements for members of the public who would otherwise not be able to
access that notice to do so.

18.5.11F.6

The validity of a determination is not affected by a failure to comply with
subsection (5).

18.5.11F.7

Any statutory instrument containing regulations made under this section may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

18.6

Omit section 12.

18.7

In section 12A—

18.7.a

for subsection (1), substitute—

18.7.a.1

For any financial year, a billing authority in Wales may determine in relation
to its area, or such part of its area as it may specify, that if on any day a
dwelling is a long-term empty dwelling the amount of council tax payable in
respect of the dwelling and the day is increased by such percentage of not
more than 300 as it may specify in the determination.

18.7.a.1A

Where a determination is made in accordance with subsection (1) and a discount
applies, the authority must calculate the amount of council tax payable by
first adding the percentage increase mentioned in subsection (1) and then
subtracting the discount.

;

18.7.b

omit subsection (6).

18.8

In section 12B—

18.8.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

18.8.a.1

For any financial year, a billing authority in Wales may determine in relation
to its area, or such part of its area as it may specify, that if on any day
the conditions mentioned in subsection (2) are satisfied in respect of a
dwelling the amount of council tax payable in respect of the dwelling and the
day is increased by such percentage of not more than 300 as it may specify in
the determination.

18.8.a.1A

Where a determination is made in accordance with subsection (1) and a discount
applies, the authority must calculate the amount of council tax payable by
first adding the percentage increase mentioned in subsection (1) and then
subtracting the discount.

;

18.8.b

omit subsection (7).

18.9

In section 66, for “12”, substitute  “11F” .

18.10

In section 67, for “12”, substitute  “11F” .

18.11

In Schedule 1—

18.11.a

in the heading, after “Discount”, insert  “: England” ;

18.11.b

omit paragraph 12.

##### Reduced amounts

19

19.1

The 1992 Act is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 13—

19.2.a

in subsection (1), after “may” insert  “, in relation to England, and the
Welsh Ministers must, in relation to Wales,” ;

19.2.b

in subsection (3), for “12” substitute  “11E, 11F” ;

19.2.c

in subsection (4), after “thinks” insert  “, or the Welsh Ministers think,” ;

19.2.d

in subsection (7), after “thinks” insert  “, or the Welsh Ministers think,” ;

19.2.e

in subsection (8)—

19.2.e.i

in paragraph (a), after “billing authority” insert  “in England” ;

19.2.e.ii

after paragraph (b), insert—

19.2.e.ii.ba

provision requiring the Welsh Ministers to specify in a report, for the
purposes of the regulations, an amount in relation to each billing authority
in Wales;

19.2.e.ii.bb

provision requiring the Welsh Ministers to lay that report before Senedd
Cymru;

;

19.2.f

after subsection (10), insert—

19.2.f.11

The Welsh Ministers may issue guidance about how a billing authority is to
give effect to regulations made by them under this section.

19.2.f.12

A billing authority in Wales must have regard to guidance issued under
subsection (11).

19.3

In section 13A—

19.3.a

in subsection (1)—

19.3.a.i

omit paragraph (b);

19.3.a.ii

in paragraph (c), for “(b)” substitute  “pursuant to regulations made by the
Welsh Ministers under section 13” .

19.3.b

omit subsections (4), (5) and (8);

19.3.c

in subsection (9), omit “or regulations under subsection (4)”.

19.4

In section 32—

19.4.a

in subsection (3)(a), omit “its council tax reduction scheme,”;

19.4.b

in subsection (12), omit paragraph (c).

19.5

In section 33—

19.5.a

in subsection (1), in the definition of “P”, omit “its council tax reductions
scheme,”;

19.5.b

in subsection (1A), omit sub-paragraph (iii).

19.6

In section 66, in subsection (2), after paragraph (b), insert—

19.6.bza

a matter prescribed, or provided for, in accordance with subsections (1) or
(2) of section 13, in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers under that
section;

.

19.7

Omit Schedule 1B.

#### Valuation of dwellings

##### Procedure for the compilation of valuation lists

20

20.1

In section 22B of the 1992 Act—

20.1.a

in subsection (3), after “the Welsh Ministers” insert  “, but an order under
this subsection cannot specify a year later than 2027” ;

20.1.b

after subsection (3), insert—

20.1.b.3A

After that, a new list must be compiled, in relation to billing authorities in
Wales, on 1 April in each revaluation year.

20.1.b.3B

Revaluation years are 2028 and every fifth year afterwards.

20.1.b.3C

The Welsh Ministers may by order amend subsection (3B) so as to—

20.1.b.3C.a

substitute a different year for the year that is for the time being specified
as the revaluation year;

20.1.b.3C.b

insert a reference to a different year from the year that would otherwise be
the revaluation year;

20.1.b.3C.c

substitute a different interval between revaluation years for the interval
that is for the time being specified there;

20.1.b.3C.d

make other amendments to subsection (3B) that are consequential on, or
incidental to, the amendments made under paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

;

20.1.c

in subsection (7), for “this section” substitute  “subsection (1A), (2) or
(3)” ;

20.1.d

after subsection (7), insert—

20.1.d.7A

Where a list is to be compiled under subsection (3A), the listing officer for
a billing authority must send the authority a copy of the list proposed to be
compiled (based on the information held at the time by the listing officer)—

20.1.d.7A.a

by such date as the Welsh Ministers may specify, by order, in relation to a
specific list or in relation to lists generally, or

20.1.d.7A.b

no later than the 1 September before the date on which the list is to be
compiled, if no such order applies to that list.

;

20.1.e

after subsection (8), insert—

20.1.e.8A

A billing authority must keep a copy list received under subsection (7A)
electronically and must, as soon as reasonably practicable, take such steps as
it thinks most suitable for giving notice of it.

;

20.1.f

in subsection (10), after “billing authority” insert  “in England” ;

20.1.g

after subsection (10), insert—

20.1.g.10A

As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving a copy list under subsection
(9) above, a billing authority in Wales must—

20.1.g.10A.a

deposit it at its principal office, if it is a copy of a list compiled under
subsection (3);

20.1.g.10A.b

keep a copy electronically, if it is a copy of a list compiled under
subsection (3A).

;

20.1.h

for subsection (12), substitute—

20.1.h.12

No order under subsection (3) or (3C) may be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing it has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

20.1.h.13

A statutory instrument containing an order under subsection (7A) is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

20.2

In section 24 of the 1992 Act—

20.2.a

in subsection (9), for “or 22B(10)” substitute  “, 22B(10) or 22B(10A)(a)” ;

20.2.b

after subsection (9), insert—

20.2.b.9A

The regulations may include provision that where—

20.2.b.9A.a

the listing officer for a billing authority has informed the authority of an
alteration of the list; and

20.2.b.9A.b

the authority keeps the copy list electronically under section 22B(10A)(b),

the authority must alter the copy accordingly.

20.3

In section 28 of the 1992 Act—

20.3.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “or 22B(10)” substitute  “, 22B(10) or 22B(10A)(a)”
;

20.3.b

after subsection (2), insert—

20.3.b.2A

A person may require a billing authority to give them access to such
information as will enable that person to establish what is the state of a
copy of a list, or has been its state at any time while it has been kept
electronically, if—

20.3.b.2A.a

the authority keeps the copy list electronically under section 22B(10A)(b);
and

20.3.b.2A.b

the list is in force or has been in force at any time in the preceding five
years.

;

20.3.c

after subsection (3), insert—

20.3.c.3A

A person may require a billing authority to give them access to such
information as will enable that person to establish what is the state of a
copy of a proposed list if—

20.3.c.3A.a

the authority keeps the copy list electronically under section 22B(8A); and

20.3.c.3A.b

the list itself is not yet in force.

;

20.3.d

in subsection (4), for “or (3)” substitute  “, (2A), (3) or (3A)” ;

20.3.e

in subsection (8)(a), for “(3)” substitute  “(2A), (3), (3A)” .

20.4

In paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the 1992 Act, in sub-paragraphs (1), (2)(a)
and (3)(a), after “22B(7)” insert  “, 22B(7A)” .

### GENERAL

#### Interpretation

21

In this Act—

      “ the 1988 Act ” (“ Deddf 1988 ”) has the meaning given by section 1(1);
“ the 1992 Act ” (“ Deddf 1992 ”) has the meaning given by section 16(1).

#### Consequential and transitional provision

22

22.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations—

22.1.a

make provision that is incidental or supplementary to, or consequential on,
any provision of this Act;

22.1.b

make transitional or saving provision in connection with any provision of this
Act.

22.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may amend, repeal or revoke any enactment.

22.3

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

22.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations made under this section that
amend or repeal an enactment contained in primary legislation may not be made
unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

22.5

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

22.6

In subsection (4), “ primary legislation ” means—

22.6.a

an Act of Senedd Cymru;

22.6.b

a Measure of the National Assembly for Wales;

22.6.c

an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.

#### Coming into force

23

23.1

This section and sections 1, 16, 21, 22 and 24 and paragraph 13(3)(b) of the
Schedule (and section 15 in so far as relating to paragraph 13(3)(b)) come
into force on the day after the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent.

23.2

The following provisions come into force at the end of the period of two
months beginning with the day on this Act receives Royal Assent—

23.2.a

sections 2, 3, and 4 and Part 1 of the Schedule (and section 15 in so far as
relating to that Part of the Schedule);

23.2.b

section 5;

23.2.c

section 7;

23.2.d

section 8 and Part 2 of the Schedule (and section 15 in so far as relating to
that Part of the Schedule);

23.2.e

section 9 and Part 3 of the Schedule (and section 15 in so far as relating to
that Part of the Schedule);

23.2.f

section 13 and Part 6 of the Schedule (and section 15 in so far as relating to
that Part of the Schedule);

23.2.g

section 14 and Part 7 of the Schedule (and section 15 in so far as relating to
that Part of the Schedule);

23.2.h

section 17;

23.2.i

section 20.

23.3

The following provisions come into force on 1 April 2025—

23.3.a

sections 10 and 11 and Part 4 of the Schedule (and section 15 in so far as
relating to that Part of the Schedule);

23.3.b

section 6.

23.4

The amendments made by section 6 have effect in relation to chargeable days
falling on or after 1 April 2025.

23.5

The provisions referred to in subsection (6) come into force for the purposes
referred to in that subsection on the day after the day on which this Act
receives Royal Assent, but for all other purposes they come into force on a
day (or days) appointed by the Welsh Ministers in an order made by statutory
instrument.

23.6

The provisions and purposes are—

23.6.a

section 18(2)(c) for the purpose of making regulations under section
6(4C)(b)(ii) and (4D) of the (amended) 1992 Act;

23.6.b

section 18(5) for the purpose of making regulations under sections 11E(1),
(2)(b), (3), (5) and (7) and 11F(1) and (7) of the (amended) 1992 Act.

23.7

The other provisions of this Act come into force on a day (or days) appointed
by the Welsh Ministers in an order made by statutory instrument.

23.8

An order under subsection (5) or (7) may make transitional or saving
provision.

#### Short title

24

The short title of this Act is the Local Government Finance (Wales) Act 2024.

  MINOR AND CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

(introduced by section 15)

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO RATING LISTS

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

1

1.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

1.2

Omit section 41A.

1.3

In section 42(5), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

1.4

In section 45(1)(d) and (9), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

1.5

In section 47(8), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

1.6

In section 50(1), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority”  and for “he” substitute  “it” .

1.7

In section 54(8), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

1.8

Omit section 54A.

1.9

In section 55—

1.9.a

after subsection (1), insert—

1.9.a.1A

The Welsh Ministers may make regulations providing that where a copy of a list
has been sent under section 41ZA(6) or 52ZA(6) and the valuation officer
alters the list before it comes into force—

1.9.a.1A.a

the officer must inform the billing authority or the Welsh Ministers (as the
case may be), and

1.9.a.1A.b

the authority or the Welsh Ministers (as the case may be) must alter their
copy accordingly.

;

1.9.b

in subsection (2), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” ;

1.9.c

in subsection (7A)—

1.9.c.i

at the beginning insert  “In relation to England,” ;

1.9.c.ii

in paragraph (a), omit “or 41A(10)”;

1.9.d

after subsection (7A), insert—

1.9.d.7AA

In relation to Wales, the regulations may include provision that—

1.9.d.7AA.a

where a valuation officer for a billing authority has informed the authority
of an alteration of a local non-domestic rating list compiled by the officer,
the authority must alter its copy of the list accordingly;

1.9.d.7AA.b

where the central valuation officer has informed the Welsh Ministers of an
alteration of a central non-domestic rating list compiled for Wales, the Welsh
Ministers must alter their copy of the list accordingly.

1.10

In section 58—

1.10.a

in subsection (1), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “Welsh Ministers” ;

1.10.b

in subsection (5), for “Secretary of State thinks” substitute  “Welsh
Ministers think” ;

1.10.c

in subsection (9), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “Welsh Ministers” ,
for “him” substitute  “them”  and for “his” substitute  “their” ;

1.10.d

in subsection (10)(a), for “five” substitute  “three” .

1.11

In section 59, for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

1.12

In section 63(1), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority”  and for “he sees” substitute  “it sees” .

1.13

In section 64—

1.13.a

in subsection (2A)(a), for sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) substitute  “the
appropriate national authority” ;

1.13.b

in subsections (3) and (3A), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
national authority” ;

1.13.c

in subsection (11A), for “Secretary of State in relation to England, and the
National Assembly in relation to Wales,” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

1.14

In section 66(9), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

1.15

In section 66A(6), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “by the appropriate
national authority” .

1.16

In section 67, after subsection (12) insert—

1.16.12A

References to “the appropriate national authority” are—

1.16.12A.a

in relation to England, to the Secretary of State;

1.16.12A.b

in relation to Wales, to the Welsh Ministers.

1.17

In Schedule 4ZA, omit paragraph 11.

1.18

In Schedule 4ZB, omit paragraph 4.

1.19

In Schedule 4A, in paragraph 6(2), for “Secretary of State” substitute
“appropriate national authority” .

1.20

In Schedule 5, in paragraph 13(4), for “Secretary of State” substitute
“appropriate national authority” .

1.21

In Schedule 5A, omit paragraph 7.

1.22

In Schedule 6, in paragraphs 2(3)(b), (6A), (8), (9), (11) and 2A(2)(a), for
“Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” .

1.23

In Schedule 9—

1.23.a

in paragraph 1, for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority”  and for “he” substitute  “it” ;

1.23.b

in paragraphs 2(1)(c), 3(3), 4(1)(a) and (b), 6(1A), 6A(1) (both places), (2)
(both places) and (3), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
national authority” ;

1.23.c

in paragraph 8—

1.23.c.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “valuation officer” insert  “of a billing
authority in England” ;

1.23.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), after “billing authority” insert  “in England”  and in
paragraph (a), omit  “or 41A(10)” ;

1.23.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (4), after “billing authority” insert  “in England” ;

1.23.d

after paragraph 8, insert—

1.23.d.8A

1.23.d.8A.1

A person may require a valuation officer of a billing authority in Wales to
give access to such information as will enable the person to establish what is
the state of a list, or has been its state at any time since it came into
force, if—

1.23.d.8A.1.a

the officer is maintaining the list, and

1.23.d.8A.1.b

the list is in force or has been in force at any time in the preceding 5
years.

1.23.d.8A.2

A person may require a billing authority in Wales to give access to such
information as will enable the person to establish—

1.23.d.8A.2.a

what is the state of the authority’s copy of a local non-domestic rating list,
or

1.23.d.8A.2.b

what has been its state at any time since the list was compiled,

if the list is in force or has been in force at any time in the preceding 5
years.

1.23.d.8A.3

A person may require the Welsh Ministers to give access to such information as
will enable the person to establish—

1.23.d.8A.3.a

what is the state of the Welsh Ministers’ copy of a central non-domestic
rating list, or

1.23.d.8A.3.b

what has been its state at any time since the list was compiled,

if the list is in force or has been in force at any time in the preceding 5
years.

1.23.d.8A.4

A person may require a billing authority in Wales to give access to such
information as will enable the person to establish what is the state of a copy
of a proposed local non-domestic rating list if—

1.23.d.8A.4.a

the authority is keeping the copy under section 41ZA(7), and

1.23.d.8A.4.b

the list itself is not yet in force.

1.23.d.8A.5

A person may require the Welsh Ministers to give access to such information as
will enable the person to establish what is the state of a copy of a proposed
central non-domestic rating list if—

1.23.d.8A.5.a

the Welsh Ministers are keeping the copy under section 52ZA(7), and

1.23.d.8A.5.b

the list itself is not yet in force.

1.23.d.8A.6

A requirement under sub-paragraphs (1) to (5) must be complied with at a
reasonable time and place.

1.23.d.8A.7

Where access is given under this paragraph to information in documentary form
the person to whom access is given may—

1.23.d.8A.7.a

make copies of the document or of parts of the document;

1.23.d.8A.7.b

require a person having custody of the document to supply a photographic copy
of it or of parts of it.

1.23.d.8A.8

Where access is given under this paragraph to information in a form that is
not documentary, the person to whom access is given may—

1.23.d.8A.8.a

make transcripts of (or of extracts from) the information;

1.23.d.8A.8.b

require a person having control of access to the information to supply a copy
in documentary form of (or of extracts from) the information.

1.23.d.8A.9

No payment may be required for giving access to information under sub-
paragraphs (1) to (5), but a reasonable charge may be required for a facility
under sub-paragraph (7) or (8), and if it is required, the sub-paragraph
concerned does not apply unless the charge is paid.

1.23.d.8A.10

If without reasonable excuse a person having custody of a document containing,
or having control of access to, information access to which is sought under
this paragraph—

1.23.d.8A.10.a

intentionally obstructs a person in exercising a right under sub-paragraph
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7)(a) or (8)(a), or

1.23.d.8A.10.b

refuses to comply with a requirement under sub-paragraph (7)(b) or (8)(b),

that person is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 1 on
the standard scale.

###### Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c. 19)

2

2.1

The Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 is amended as follows.

2.2

Omit section 37.

2.3

In Schedule 16—

2.3.a

omit paragraph 84;

2.3.b

in paragraph 85, for “that Act” substitute  “the Local Government Finance Act
1988” ;

2.3.c

omit paragraph 86.

###### Business Rate Supplements Act 2009 (c. 7)

3

3.1

The Business Rate Supplements Act 2009 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 30(2), in the table, in the entry for “local non-domestic rating
list”, in the second column, after “41(1)” insert  “or 41ZA(1)” .

###### Growth and Infrastructure Act 2013 (c. 27)

4

4.1

The Growth and Infrastructure Act 2013 is amended as follows.

4.2

Omit section 30.

###### Non-Domestic Rating (Lists) Act 2021 (c. 8)

5

5.1

The Non-Domestic Rating (Lists) Act 2021 is amended as follows.

5.2

Omit section 1(4).

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO DISCRETIONARY RELIEF

###### Local Government and Rating Act 1997 (c. 29)

6

6.1

The Local Government and Rating Act 1997 is amended as follows.

6.2

In Schedule 3, omit paragraph 23.

###### Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (c. 53)

7

7.1

The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 is amended as follows.

7.2

Omit section 4(3).

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO EXEMPTIONS

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

8

8.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

8.2

In Schedule 5—

8.2.a

before paragraph 20, in the italic heading, at the end insert  “: England” ;

8.2.b

in paragraph 20(1) after “may” insert  “in relation to England” .

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO NON-DOMESTIC RATING MULTIPLIERS

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

9

9.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

9.2

In Schedule 4ZA, in paragraph 10—

9.2.a

in sub-paragraph (3)(b), after “multiplier” insert  “in relation to England” ;

9.2.b

in sub-paragraph (9), at the start, insert  “In relation to England,” .

9.3

In Schedule 4ZB, in paragraph 3(3)(b) after “multiplier” insert  “in relation
to England” .

9.4

In Schedule 5A, in paragraph 6(3), after “multiplier” insert  “in relation to
England” .

9.5

In Schedule 7, omit Part 1.

###### Local Government Act 2003 (c. 26)

10

10.1

The Local Government Act 2003 is amended as follows.

10.2

Omit section 62(2) to (10).

###### Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)

11

11.1

The Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 is amended as follows.

11.2

Omit section 154(2) and (3)(a).

###### Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (c. 53)

12

12.1

The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 is amended as follows.

12.2

Omit section 15(3) and (4).

12.3

In the Schedule, omit paragraphs 56 to 66.

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO PROVISION OF INFORMATION

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

13

13.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

13.2

In Schedule 9—

13.2.a

before paragraph 5, in the italic heading, omit “valuation officer or”;

13.2.b

in paragraph 5, omit sub-paragraphs (1), (1A), (2) and (4);

13.2.c

before paragraph 5ZC, in the italic heading, omit “: England”;

13.2.d

before paragraph 5A, in the italic heading, omit “valuation officer or”;

13.2.e

in paragraph 5A—

13.2.e.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “paragraph 5” substitute  “paragraph 5(1B)”  and
omit “(2) or”;

13.2.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “valuation officer or, as the case may be, billing
authority concerned” substitute  “billing authority” ;

13.2.e.iii

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), omit “(2) or”;

13.2.e.iv

in sub-paragraph (3), omit “(2) or”;

13.2.e.v

in sub-paragraph (4), for “paragraph 5” substitute  “paragraph 5(1B)” ;

13.2.e.vi

in sub-paragraph (5)(a), for “paragraph 5” substitute  “paragraph 5(1B)” ;

13.2.f

in paragraph 5B, omit “valuation officer or, as the case may be,”;

13.2.g

before paragraph 5BD, in the italic heading, omit “: England”;

13.2.h

in paragraph 5BE, for sub-paragraph (5) substitute—

13.2.h.5

In this paragraph “ valuation tribunal ” means—

13.2.h.5.a

for the purposes of an appeal relating to a hereditament situated in England,
the Valuation Tribunal for England;

13.2.h.5.b

for the purposes of an appeal relating to a hereditament situated in Wales, a
valuation tribunal established under paragraph 1 of Schedule 11.

;

13.2.i

before paragraph 5C, in the italic heading, omit “valuation officer or”;

13.2.j

in paragraph 5C(6)(a), omit “(2) or”;

13.2.k

in paragraph 5D(1), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “be recovered by
the billing authority concerned as a civil debt due to the authority” ;

13.2.l

in paragraph 5E—

13.2.l.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “paragraphs 5ZC, 5ZD or 5A” substitute  “paragraph
5ZC or 5ZD” , and after “above” insert  “in relation to a hereditament
situated in England” ;

13.2.l.ii

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

13.2.l.ii.1A

Any sums received by a valuation officer by way of a penalty under paragraph
5ZC or 5ZD in relation to a hereditament situated in Wales must be paid into
the Welsh Consolidated Fund.

;

13.2.m

in paragraph 5F(A1), for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
national authority” ;

13.2.n

in paragraph 5FB, for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” ;

13.2.o

in paragraph 5H, for “4M, 5, 5ZA, 5ZC or 5A” substitute  “4M, 5ZA or 5ZC” .

13.3

In Schedule 11—

13.3.a

in paragraph 2, after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

13.3.a.cza

paragraph 5BB of Schedule 9;

13.3.a.czb

paragraph 5BE of Schedule 9;

;

13.3.b

after paragraph 11(1) insert—

13.3.b.1A

Regulations under paragraph 1 may also include provision that an appeal lies
to the Upper Tribunal in respect of a decision or order given or made by a
tribunal established under that paragraph on an appeal under paragraph 5C or
6AA of Schedule 9.

;

13.3.c

in paragraph 11, in sub-paragraph (1A) (as inserted by paragraph (b)) before
“5C or 6AA” insert  “5BB, 5BE,” .

###### Local Government and Housing Act 1989 (c. 42)

14

14.1

The Local Government and Housing Act 1989 is amended as follows.

14.2

In Schedule 5, omit paragraph 46.

###### Local Government Act 2003 (c. 26)

15

15.1

The Local Government Act 2003 is amended as follows.

15.2

Omit section 72(2).

###### Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)

16

16.1

The Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 is amended as follows.

16.2

Omit section 151(2)(a), (c) and (e), (3)(b)(i) and (6).

###### Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (c. 53)

17

17.1

The Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 is amended as follows.

17.2

In the Schedule, omit paragraphs 42, 48 and 53(b).

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO ANTI-AVOIDANCE

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

18

18.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

18.2

In Schedule 11—

18.2.a

in paragraph 2, after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

18.2.a.ba

section 63L;

;

18.2.b

in paragraph 11, in sub-paragraph (1A) (as inserted by paragraph 13(3)(b) of
this Schedule) after “on an appeal under” insert  “section 63L or” .

##### AMENDMENTS RELATING TO ORDERS AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE ACT 1988

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

19

19.1

The 1988 Act is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 58—

19.2.a

in subsection (6), for “143(1)” substitute  “143A(2)(b)” ;

19.2.b

in subsection (7), for “143(1)” substitute  “143A(2)(b)” ;

19.2.c

in subsection (7A), for “143(1) and (2)” substitute  “143A(2) and (3)” .

19.3

In section 140, in subsection (4), for “section 143(1) below” substitute
“sections 143(1) and 143A(2)(b)” .

19.4

In section 141, in subsection (5), for “section 143(2) below” substitute
“sections 143(2) and 143A(3)” .

19.5

In section 143—

19.5.a

before subsection (1), insert—

19.5.a.A1

This section applies in respect of powers to make an order or regulations
under this Act except where section 143A applies.

;

19.5.b

in subsection (2), for “, the Treasury or the Welsh Ministers” substitute  “or
the Treasury” ;

19.5.c

in subsection (3)—

19.5.c.i

for “(3C)” substitute  “(3D)” ;

19.5.c.ii

omit the words from “or, in” to the end;

19.5.d

omit subsection (3C);

19.5.e

in subsection (3E), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.” ;

19.5.f

in subsection (3F), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.” ;

19.5.g

omit subsection (3G);

19.5.h

in subsection (4ZA), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “a draft of the
regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.” ;

19.5.i

in subsection (7A), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “unless a draft of
the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House
of Parliament.” ;

19.5.j

in subsection (7C), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “unless a draft of
the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House
of Parliament.” ;

19.5.k

in subsection (7E), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “unless a draft of
the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House
of Parliament.” ;

19.5.l

in subsection (9), omit “or 5(13A)”;

19.5.m

omit subsections (9AZA) and (9AB).

19.6

In Schedule 7A, in paragraph 12, for “section 143(1) and (2) above” substitute
“sections 143 (1) and (2) and 143A(2)(b) and (3)” .

19.7

In Schedule 11, in paragraph 16—

19.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “section 143(1) above” substitute  “sections 143(1)
and 143A(2)(b)” ;

19.7.b

in sub-paragraph (2), for “section 143(2) above” substitute  “sections 143(2)
and 143A(3)” .

###### Environment (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 3)

20

20.1

The Environment (Wales) Act 2016 is amended as follows.

20.2

Omit section 84(4)(a).

###### Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)

21

21.1

The Local Government and Elections Wales Act 2021 is amended as follows.

21.2

Omit section 151(10).

21.3

Omit section 152(3).

