Title: Media Act 2024
Date: 2024-10-23
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/15

## Media Act 2024

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Public service television

#### The public service remit for television

##### Reports on the fulfilment of the public service remit

1

1.1

Section 264 of the Communications Act 2003 (OFCOM reports on the fulfilment of
the public service remit) is amended as follows.

1.2

For subsections (3) to (8) (OFCOM’s review and reporting obligations and the
purposes of public service television broadcasting in the United Kingdom)
substitute—

1.2.3

The review and reporting obligations for a period are—

1.2.3.a

an obligation to carry out a review of the extent to which the public service
remit for television in the United Kingdom has, during that period, been
fulfilled by the public service broadcasters (taking them all together over
the period as a whole); and

1.2.3.b

an obligation, with a view to maintaining and strengthening the quality of the
audiovisual content made available in order to fulfil the public service remit
for television in the United Kingdom, to prepare a report on the matters found
in the review.

1.2.4

The public service remit for television in the United Kingdom is fulfilled
where the public service broadcasters (taken together) make available a broad
range of audiovisual content—

1.2.4.a

in a manner which, taking into account when and how their relevant audiovisual
services are received or accessed, is likely to meet the needs and satisfy the
interests of as many different audiences as practicable, and

1.2.4.b

which meets the needs and satisfies the interests of as many different
available audiences as practicable as regards the nature of the audiovisual
content made available and the subject-matters covered by it,

and that range of audiovisual content includes material satisfying the
requirements in  subsection (5)  and itself satisfies the requirement in
subsection (6) .

1.2.5

The requirements in this subsection are—

1.2.5.a

that the audiovisual content made available by the public service broadcasters
(taken together) provides, to the extent that is appropriate for facilitating
civic understanding and fair and well-informed debate on news and current
affairs, a comprehensive and authoritative coverage of news and current
affairs—

1.2.5.a.i

in, and in the different parts of, the United Kingdom, and

1.2.5.a.ii

from around the world;

1.2.5.b

that the audiovisual content made available by the public service broadcasters
(taken together) comprises a public service for the dissemination of
information and for the provision of education and entertainment, which
includes what appears to OFCOM to be—

1.2.5.b.i

a sufficient quantity of audiovisual content that reflects the lives and
concerns of different communities and cultural interests and traditions within
the United Kingdom, and locally in different parts of the United Kingdom, and

1.2.5.b.ii

a sufficient quantity of audiovisual content that is in, or mainly in, a
recognised regional or minority language;

1.2.5.c

that the audiovisual content made available by the public service broadcasters
(taken together) includes an appropriate range and quantity of audiovisual
content, contained in original productions, that—

1.2.5.c.i

reflects the lives and concerns of children and young people in the United
Kingdom,

1.2.5.c.ii

is of an educational nature, and

1.2.5.c.iii

helps them to understand the world around them; and

1.2.5.d

that the audiovisual content made available by the public service broadcasters
(taken together) includes—

1.2.5.d.i

an appropriate range of independent productions with an appropriate combined
duration,

1.2.5.d.ii

an appropriate range of original productions with an appropriate combined
duration, and

1.2.5.d.iii

so far as the audiovisual content consists of programmes made in the United
Kingdom, an appropriate range of programmes made outside the M25 area with an
appropriate combined duration.

1.2.6

The requirement in this subsection is that the range of genres of audiovisual
content made available by the public service broadcasters (taken together)
constitutes an appropriate range of genres.

1.2.7

Particular audiovisual content made available by a public service broadcaster
is not to be taken into account for the purpose of determining the extent to
which the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom is
fulfilled unless the broadcaster has taken steps to ensure that the
audiovisual content in question may be received or accessed in accordance with
subsection (8)  by so much of the broadcaster’s intended audience as is
reasonably practicable.

1.2.8

Audiovisual content may be received or accessed in accordance with this
subsection if—

1.2.8.a

the audiovisual content, and

1.2.8.b

the relevant audiovisual service by means of which the audiovisual content is
provided,

may be received or accessed in intelligible form and free of charge.

1.2.8A

Any requirement to pay sums in accordance with regulations under section 365
is to be disregarded for the purpose of determining whether audiovisual
content may be received or accessed in accordance with  subsection (8) .

1.2.8B

Particular audiovisual content made available by a public service broadcaster
by means of an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-demand programme
service is not to be taken into account for the purpose of determining the
extent to which the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom
is fulfilled unless the audiovisual content in question is available for a
period of not less than 30 days beginning with the day on which that content
is first made available for viewing.

1.2.8C

Subsection  (8B)  does not apply to news programmes or programmes containing
coverage of sporting events that are made available by a public service
broadcaster by means of an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-demand
programme service.

1.2.8D

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  subsection (8B)  so as to
substitute a different period for the period for the time being specified
there.

1.2.8E

In carrying out a review under this section OFCOM must consider—

1.2.8E.a

the costs to public service broadcasters of fulfilling the public service
remit for television in the United Kingdom;

1.2.8E.b

the sources of income available to them for meeting those costs.

1.2.8F

Every report under this section must—

1.2.8F.a

specify, and comment on, whatever changes appear to OFCOM to have occurred,
during the period to which the report relates, in the extent to which the
public service remit for television in the United Kingdom has been fulfilled;

1.2.8F.b

specify, and comment on, whatever changes appear to OFCOM to have occurred,
during that period, in the manner in which that remit is fulfilled;

1.2.8F.c

set out the findings of OFCOM on their consideration of the matters mentioned
in  subsection (8E)  and any conclusions they have arrived at in relation to
those findings; and

1.2.8F.d

set out OFCOM’s conclusions on the current state of the audiovisual content
made available by public service broadcasters in order to fulfil the public
service remit for television in the United Kingdom.

1.3

After subsection (10) insert—

1.3.10A

Before making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must
consult OFCOM.

1.3.10B

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

1.4

For subsection (11) substitute—

1.4.11

The following are relevant audiovisual services for the purposes of this
section—

1.4.11.a

a television broadcasting service;

1.4.11.b

a television licensable content service;

1.4.11.c

a digital television programme service;

1.4.11.d

an on-demand programme service;

1.4.11.e

a non-UK on-demand programme service;

1.4.11.f

a service, other than a service referred to in any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (e)
, which falls within  subsection (11A) .

1.4.11A

A service falls within this subsection if it is a service, or a dissociable
section of a service, which has the following characteristics—

1.4.11A.a

its principal purpose is the provision of programmes,

1.4.11A.b

the programmes which it provides are accessed by viewers by means of the
internet,

1.4.11A.c

there is a person who has general control over which programmes are comprised
in the service or the dissociable section of the service (whether or not the
person has control of the content of individual programmes or the distribution
of the service), and

1.4.11A.d

the service or the dissociable section of the service is available for use by
members of the public in all or part of the United Kingdom.

1.4.11B

The services that are to be taken for the purposes of  subsection (11A) (d)
to be available for use by members of the public include any service which—

1.4.11B.a

is made available for use only to persons who subscribe to the service
(whether for a period or in relation to a particular occasion) or who
otherwise request its provision, but

1.4.11B.b

is a service the facility of subscribing to which, or otherwise requesting its
provision, is offered or made available to members of the public.

1.5

For subsection (13) substitute—

1.5.13

For the purposes of this section, audiovisual content is made available by a
public service broadcaster if—

1.5.13.a

it is provided by means of a relevant audiovisual service provided by the
broadcaster, or

1.5.13.b

it is provided by means of a relevant audiovisual service provided by another
person, under arrangements made between the broadcaster and that other person.

1.5.14

In the case of a service falling within  subsection (11) (f) , the person, and
the only person, who is to be treated for the purposes of this section as
providing the service is the person described in  subsection (11A) (c) ; and
section 362(3) applies in relation to such a service as it applies in relation
to a service referred to in section 362(2).

1.5.15

In this section, a reference to the provision of an on-demand programme
service or a non-UK on-demand programme service is to be read in accordance
with section 368R(5) and (6).

1.5.16

In this section—

      “ audiovisual content ” means the programmes, other than advertisements,
included in a relevant audiovisual service;           “ children ” means
persons under the age of 18;           “ independent production ”—         in
relation to the provider of a licensed public service channel, has the same
meaning as in section 277;           in relation to the BBC, has the same
meaning as in paragraph 1 of Schedule 12;           in relation to S4C, has
the same meaning as in paragraph 7 of Schedule 12;                 “ intended
audience ” means—         in relation to the provider of a Channel 3 service
provided for an area of the United Kingdom, members of the public in that
area;           in relation to any other public service broadcaster, members
of the public in the United Kingdom;                 “ original production ”—
in relation to the provider of a licensed public service channel, has the same
meaning as in section 278;           in relation to the BBC, has the meaning
given by the BBC Charter and Agreement;           in relation to S4C, has the
same meaning as in paragraph 8 of Schedule 12;                 “ programme ”
means any programme (with or without sounds) which consists of moving or still
images or of legible text or of a combination of those things;           “
recognised regional or minority language ” means Welsh, the Gaelic language as
spoken in Scotland, Irish, Scots, Ulster Scots or Cornish.

##### OFCOM reports: wider review and reporting obligations

2

2.1

Section 264A of the Communications Act 2003 (OFCOM reports: wider review and
reporting obligations) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1), for “public service objectives” substitute  “public service
requirements” .

2.3

In subsection (2)(b) and (c), for “objectives” substitute  “requirements” .

2.4

For subsections (3) and (4) substitute—

2.4.3

“The public service requirements” are the requirements set out in paragraphs
(a)  to  (d)  of section 264 (5) , as modified by subsection (4).

2.4.4

Section 264 (5)  has effect for the purposes of subsection (3) as if
references to audiovisual content made available by the public service
broadcasters, or to programmes included in that content, were references to
material included in media services.

2.5

In subsection (5), in the definition of “media services”, after paragraph (b)
(and before the “and” following it) insert—

2.5.ba

non-UK on-demand programme services,

.

##### Public service remits of licensed providers

3

3.1

Section 265 of the Communications Act 2003 (licence conditions for a licensed
public service channel to include fulfilling public service remits) is amended
as follows.

3.2

For subsection (2) (public service remit for Channel 3 services and Channel 5)
substitute—

3.2.2

The public service remit for every Channel 3 service and for Channel 5 is to
make available a range of high quality and diverse audiovisual content—

3.2.2.a

which is all capable of being taken into account for the purpose of
determining the extent to which the public service remit for television in the
United Kingdom is fulfilled (see section 264 (7)  to  (8C) ), and

3.2.2.b

which, considered as a whole, constitutes an adequate contribution to the
fulfilment of that remit.

3.3

For subsection (3) (public service remit for Channel 4) substitute—

3.3.3

The public service remit for Channel 4 is to make available a broad range of
high quality and diverse audiovisual content—

3.3.3.a

which, in particular—

3.3.3.a.i

demonstrates innovation, experiment and creativity in the form and content of
programmes,

3.3.3.a.ii

appeals to the tastes and interests of a culturally diverse society,

3.3.3.a.iii

includes a significant quantity and range of programmes of an educational
nature and other programmes of educative value, and

3.3.3.a.iv

exhibits a distinctive character,

3.3.3.b

which is all capable of being taken into account for the purpose of
determining the extent to which the public service remit for television in the
United Kingdom is fulfilled, and

3.3.3.c

which, considered as a whole, constitutes an adequate contribution to the
fulfilment of that remit.

3.4

After subsection (5) insert—

3.4.6

In this section, a reference to making available audiovisual content, in
relation to a licensed public service channel, is a reference to the provider
of that channel making available audiovisual content.

3.4.7

Section 264 (13)  applies for the purposes of this section as it applies for
the purposes of section 264.

##### Statements of programme policy

4

4.1

Section 266 of the Communications Act 2003 (statements of programme policy for
Channel 3 services, Channel 4 and Channel 5) is amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (2) insert—

4.2.2A

The condition must require such proposals—

4.2.2A.a

to state whether two or more relevant audiovisual services (including the
channel) are proposed to be used to fulfil the public service remit for the
channel, and

4.2.2A.b

if so, to identify, in relation to each of the relevant audiovisual services,
its proposed contribution to the fulfilment of the remit.

4.3

In subsection (5), for “section 264(4) and (6)” substitute  “section 264 (4)
to  (6) ” .

##### Changes of programme policy

5

In section 267 of the Communications Act 2003 (changes of programme policy for
Channel 3 services, Channel 4 and Channel 5), in subsection (4), for “which
the channel would” substitute

which—

5.a

the channel, or

5.b

any other relevant audiovisual service which is being used to fulfil the
public service remit for the channel,

would

.

##### Enforcement of public service remits

6

6.1

Section 270 of the Communications Act 2003 (enforcement of public service
remits) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (1)—

6.2.a

in paragraph (a), after “failed” insert  “, in any respect,” ;

6.2.b

omit paragraph (b) and the “or” before it.

6.3

In subsection (3), after paragraph (c) insert—

6.3.ca

the record of the provider as regards compliance with duties under Part 4A
(on-demand programme services);

.

6.4

After subsection (4) insert—

6.4.4A

Where the provider’s latest statement of programme policy states that one or
more relevant audiovisual services other than the provider’s channel will be
used to fulfil the public service remit for the channel, a direction given
under this section may make provision with respect to that service or any of
those services.

6.5

In subsection (6)(b), omit the words from “or adequately” to “Kingdom”.

6.6

In subsection (7)(b), omit sub-paragraph (ii) and the “and” before it.

6.7

After subsection (7) insert—

6.7.7A

Where the provider’s latest statement of programme policy states that one or
more relevant audiovisual services other than the provider’s channel will be
used to fulfil the public service remit for the channel, specific conditions
inserted into the provider’s licence under subsection (7) may make provision
with respect to that service or any of those services.

##### Power to amend public service remit for television in the United Kingdom

7

In section 271 of the Communications Act 2003 (power to amend the public
service remits), in subsection (1)—

7.a

for paragraph (b) substitute—

7.a.b

the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom (see section 264
(4)  to  (8C) ).

;

7.b

omit paragraph (c).

#### Programming quotas for public service television

##### Quotas: independent productions

8

8.1

Section 277 of the Communications Act 2003 (programming quotas for independent
productions) is amended as follows.

8.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

8.2.1

The regulatory regime for every licensed public service channel includes the
conditions that OFCOM consider appropriate for securing that in each year—

8.2.1.a

the provider of the licensed public service channel makes available qualifying
audiovisual content that includes a range and diversity of independent
productions commissioned in accordance with the provider’s commissioning code,
and

8.2.1.b

the duration (in total) of those independent productions is at least the
number of hours specified by order of the Secretary of State.

8.3

In subsection (2), omit paragraph (a).

8.4

Omit subsection (3).

8.5

In subsection (5), for the words from “, in each year” to the end of the
subsection substitute

—

8.5.a

in each year, the provider of the licensed public service channel makes
available qualifying audiovisual content that includes a range and diversity
of independent productions commissioned in accordance with the provider’s
commissioning code, and

8.5.b

the cost (in total) of the acquisition of those independent productions is at
least the amount specified in the order.

8.6

In subsection (8), in paragraph (b), for “the percentage” substitute  “the
number of hours or (as the case may be) the amount” .

8.7

Omit subsection (9).

8.8

Omit subsection (10).

8.9

After subsection (12) insert—

8.9.12A

If a draft of a statutory instrument containing an order under this section
would, apart from this subsection, be treated for the purposes of the standing
orders of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument, it is to proceed
in that House as if it were not such an instrument.

8.10

In subsection (13)—

8.10.a

after the definition of “acquisition” insert—

      “ commissioning code ”, in relation to a provider, means the code of
practice drawn up by the provider in pursuance of conditions included in the
provider’s licence by virtue of section 285;

;

8.10.b

omit the definition of “programming budget” and the word “and” before it.

8.11

After subsection (13) insert—

8.11.14

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this section etc).

##### Quotas: original productions

9

9.1

Section 278 of the Communications Act 2003 (programming quotas for original
productions) is amended as follows.

9.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

9.2.1

The regulatory regime for every licensed public service channel includes the
conditions that OFCOM consider appropriate for securing that in each year—

9.2.1.a

the provider of the licensed public service channel makes available qualifying
audiovisual content that includes a range of original productions,

9.2.1.b

the duration (in total) of those original productions is at least the number
of hours that OFCOM consider appropriate, and

9.2.1.c

if OFCOM consider it appropriate, the additional peak viewing time objective
described in  subsection (1A)  is met.

9.2.1A

The additional peak viewing time objective is that (out of the number of hours
determined by OFCOM for the purposes of  subsection (1) (b) ) at least the
number of hours that OFCOM consider appropriate is allocated to the
broadcasting of original productions included in the channel at peak viewing
times.

9.3

Omit subsections (2) and (3).

9.4

After subsection (7) insert—

9.4.7A

An order under subsection (6) may—

9.4.7A.a

authorise OFCOM to provide in a condition included in a licence by virtue of
this section that original productions of a description specified in the
licence may not be counted towards meeting the condition;

9.4.7A.b

require OFCOM to prepare and publish guidance about the determination of
whether an original production falls within a description included in a
licence by virtue of paragraph (a);

9.4.7A.c

authorise OFCOM to provide in a condition included in a licence by virtue of
this section that the holder of the licence must have regard to that guidance.

9.5

After subsection (11) insert—

9.5.12

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this section etc).

##### Power to create additional quotas for qualifying audiovisual content

10

After section 278 of the Communications Act 2003 insert—

######### Additional quotas for qualifying audiovisual content

10.278A

10.278A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations specify a description of qualifying
audiovisual content for the purposes of this section if—

10.278A.1.a

the Secretary of State considers that qualifying audiovisual content of that
description is not being made available by the providers of licensed public
service channels (taken together) to the extent that is appropriate, and

10.278A.1.b

subsection  (3)  applies.

10.278A.2

The descriptions that may be specified under  subsection (1)  include
descriptions that are framed in part by reference to the qualifying
audiovisual service by means of which the content is made available.

10.278A.3

This subsection applies where OFCOM have made a recommendation for the making
of the regulations in their most recent report under section 229 or 264.

10.278A.4

Where the Secretary of State makes regulations under  subsection (1) , the
regulatory regime for every licensed public service channel includes the
conditions that OFCOM consider appropriate for securing that in each year—

10.278A.4.a

the provider of the licensed public service channel makes available qualifying
audiovisual content that includes content of the description specified in the
regulations, and

10.278A.4.b

the duration (in total) of content of that description is at least the number
of hours that OFCOM consider appropriate.

10.278A.5

Before including a recommendation for the making of regulations under
subsection (1)  in a report under section 229 or 264, OFCOM must consult—

10.278A.5.a

members of the public in the United Kingdom,

10.278A.5.b

providers of licensed public service channels who are likely to be affected if
the Secretary of State accepts the recommendation, and

10.278A.5.c

such other persons providing television programme services or on-demand
programme services as OFCOM consider appropriate.

10.278A.6

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult the following persons about their content—

10.278A.6.a

OFCOM,

10.278A.6.b

providers of licensed public service channels who are likely to be affected by
the regulations, and

10.278A.6.c

such other persons providing television programme services or on-demand
programme services as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

10.278A.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (1)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

10.278A.8

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this section etc).

##### Quotas: meaning of “qualifying audiovisual content” etc

11

After section  278A  of the Communications Act 2003 (as inserted by  section
10 ) insert—

######### Quotas: meaning of “qualifying audiovisual content” etc

11.278B

11.278B.1

In this Part, “ qualifying audiovisual content ” means any material, other
than advertisements, included in a qualifying audiovisual service.

11.278B.2

For the purposes of this Part, a person makes available qualifying audiovisual
content if—

11.278B.2.a

that content is provided by—

11.278B.2.a.i

the person, or

11.278B.2.a.ii

a person associated with the person, under arrangements made between the
person and that associated person,

by means of a qualifying audiovisual service provided by the person or (as the
case may be) that associated person,

11.278B.2.b

that content, and the qualifying audiovisual service by means of which it is
provided, may be received or accessed in intelligible form and free of charge,
and

11.278B.2.c

where the qualifying audiovisual service in question is an on-demand programme
service, that content is available for the period described in section 264
(8B)  unless it is excepted by section 264 (8C) .

11.278B.3

Where the period described in section 264 (8B)  falls partly in one year and
partly in another year, the person is to be regarded for the purposes of this
Part as making the qualifying audiovisual content available in the year in
which the period begins.

11.278B.4

Section  362AZ12 (6)  (meaning of references to a person associated with a
public service broadcaster) applies for the purposes of  subsection (2) (a) as
it applies for the purposes of Part 3A.

11.278B.5

Subsection  (8A)  of section 264 applies for the purposes of  subsection (2)
(b)  as it applies for the purposes of  subsection (8)  of that section.

11.278B.6

For the purposes of this Part, the following are qualifying audiovisual
services—

11.278B.6.a

television broadcasting services;

11.278B.6.b

on-demand programme services that are, or form part of, designated internet
programme services;

11.278B.6.c

any other service that—

11.278B.6.c.i

is a relevant audiovisual service for the purposes of section 264 (see section
264 (11) ), and

11.278B.6.c.ii

is specified, or falls within a description specified, in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

11.278B.7

In relation to a qualifying audiovisual service that is an on-demand programme
service, references in this Part to “ provide ” (and related expressions) are
to be read in accordance with section 368R(5).

11.278B.8

Before making regulations under  subsection (6) (c) , the Secretary of State
must consult OFCOM.

11.278B.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (6) (c)  may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

11.278B.10

In this section, “ designated internet programme service ” has the same
meaning as in Part 3A (see  section 362AZ12 ).

##### Quotas: further provision about their fulfilment

12

After section  278B  of the Communications Act 2003 (as inserted by  section
11 ) insert—

######### Quotas: further provision about their fulfilment

12.278C

12.278C.1

In this section, a “ quota condition ” means—

12.278C.1.a

a condition that forms part of the regulatory regime of a licensed public
service channel by virtue of—

12.278C.1.a.i

section 277 (1)  or (4) (quotas for independent productions),

12.278C.1.a.ii

section 278 (1)  (quotas for original productions),

12.278C.1.a.iii

section 278A (4)  (additional quotas), or

12.278C.1.a.iv

section 286(1)(a) and (aa) or (3)(a) and (aa) or 288(1)(a) and (aa) (regional
programme-making quotas relating to duration);

12.278C.1.b

a condition that forms part of the regulatory regime of a licensed public
service channel by virtue of section 286(1)(c) or (3)(c) or 288(1)(c)
(regional programme-making quotas relating to expenditure), where the
condition is framed by reference to the making available of qualifying
audiovisual content;

12.278C.1.c

a duty of the BBC under or by virtue of paragraph 1(1) or (4) of Schedule 12
(BBC quotas for independent productions);

12.278C.1.d

a duty of S4C under or by virtue of paragraph 7(1) or (4) or 8(1) of Schedule
12 (S4C quotas for independent productions and original productions).

12.278C.2

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision determining whether
qualifying audiovisual content that is made available by a person in the
circumstances described in subsection (3) may be counted towards meeting a
quota condition.

12.278C.3

Those circumstances are that the person has previously made available
audiovisual content consisting of the same or substantially the same material
(whether in the same year or a previous year).

12.278C.4

For the purposes of subsection (3)—

12.278C.4.a

“ audiovisual content ” has the same meaning as in section 264;

12.278C.4.b

section 264 (13)  (interpretation of “made available”) applies as it applies
for the purposes of section 264.

12.278C.5

Except in the case of a quota condition relating to independent productions,
regulations under subsection (2) may, instead of determining the matter
described in that subsection, require OFCOM to determine it.

12.278C.6

Where the regulations require OFCOM to determine the matter, OFCOM must do so—

12.278C.6.a

in relation to a quota condition falling within  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) ,
by conditions included in the licence of the provider of the licensed public
service channel, and

12.278C.6.b

in relation to a quota condition falling within  subsection (1) (d) , by a
direction given by OFCOM to S4C.

12.278C.7

Before giving a direction under  subsection (6) (b) , OFCOM must consult S4C.

12.278C.8

In relation to a quota condition falling within  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) ,
the reference in  subsection (3)  to the person includes a reference to any
person who previously held the licence to provide the licensed public service
channel in question.

12.278C.9

Before making regulations under  subsection (2) , the Secretary of State must
consult OFCOM.

12.278C.10

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (2)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

##### Quotas: independent productions: commissioning code

13

13.1

Section 285 of the Communications Act 2003 (code relating to programme
commissioning) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), for the words from “he will apply” to the end of the
subsection substitute

that the provider will apply—

13.2.a

when agreeing terms for the commissioning of independent productions that will
be included in television broadcasting services;

13.2.b

when agreeing terms for the commissioning of independent productions that will
be included in other qualifying audiovisual services but which the provider
wishes to count towards meeting the conditions included in the provider’s
licence by virtue of section 277 (1)  or (4) (programming quotas for
independent productions).

13.3

In subsection (3), after paragraph (g) insert—

13.3.h

that such information about the application of the code as OFCOM consider
appropriate is given to persons who make independent productions that are to
be commissioned in accordance with the code.

13.4

After subsection (9) insert—

13.4.10

See also section  278B  (which makes further provision for the interpretation
of this section).

##### Regional programme-making: Channels 3, 4 and 5

14

14.1

Section 286 of the Communications Act 2003 (regional programme-making for
Channels 3 and 5) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

14.2

In subsection (1)—

14.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “securing” insert  “in each year” ;

14.2.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

14.2.b.a

that the provider of that service makes available qualifying audiovisual
content that, so far as it consists of Channel 3 programmes made in the United
Kingdom, includes Channel 3 programmes made outside the M25 area;

14.2.b.aa

that the duration (in total) of the Channel 3 programmes that are made in the
United Kingdom outside the M25 area is at least the number of hours that OFCOM
consider appropriate;

;

14.2.c

in paragraph (b), for the words from “the Channel 3 programmes” to “the M25
area” substitute  “those programmes” ;

14.2.d

in paragraph (c), for “a suitable proportion” substitute  “a suitable amount”
.

14.3

In subsection (3)—

14.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “securing” insert  “in each year” ;

14.3.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

14.3.b.a

that the provider of that Channel makes available qualifying audiovisual
content that, so far as it consists of programmes made in the United Kingdom,
includes programmes made outside the M25 area;

14.3.b.aa

that the duration (in total) of the programmes that are made in the United
Kingdom outside the M25 area is at least the number of hours that OFCOM
consider appropriate;

;

14.3.c

in paragraph (b), for the words from “the programmes” to “the M25 area”
substitute  “those programmes” ;

14.3.d

in paragraph (c), for “a suitable proportion” substitute  “a suitable amount”
;

14.3.e

in that paragraph, after “that Channel” insert  “, or for viewing by means of
any other qualifying audiovisual service provided by the provider of that
Channel,” .

14.4

In subsection (6)—

14.4.a

for “A proportion” substitute  “An amount of expenditure” ;

14.4.b

for “a significant proportion of the programmes or expenditure” substitute  “a
significant amount of the expenditure” .

14.5

In subsection (7), in the definition of “Channel 3 programmes” after “on
Channel 3” insert  “, or for viewing by means of any other qualifying
audiovisual service provided by a provider of a Channel 3 service,” .

14.6

After subsection (7) insert—

14.6.8

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this section etc).

14.7

Section 288 of the Communications Act 2003 (regional programme-making for
Channel 4) is amended in accordance with subsections  (8)  to  (10) .

14.8

In subsection (1)—

14.8.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “securing” insert  “in each year” ;

14.8.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

14.8.b.a

that the provider of that Channel makes available qualifying audiovisual
content that, so far as it consists of programmes made in the United Kingdom,
includes programmes made outside the M25 area;

14.8.b.aa

that the duration (in total) of the programmes that are made in the United
Kingdom outside the M25 area is at least the number of hours that OFCOM
consider appropriate;

;

14.8.c

in paragraph (b), for the words from “the programmes” to “the M25 area”
substitute  “those programmes” ;

14.8.d

in paragraph (c), for “a suitable proportion” substitute  “a suitable amount”
;

14.8.e

in that paragraph, after “Channel 4” insert  “, or for viewing by means of any
other qualifying audiovisual service provided by the provider of Channel 4,” .

14.9

In subsection (4)—

14.9.a

for “A proportion” substitute  “An amount of expenditure” ;

14.9.b

for “a significant proportion of the programmes or expenditure” substitute  “a
significant amount of the expenditure” .

14.10

After subsection (5) insert—

14.10.6

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this section etc).

##### Networking arrangements for Channel 3

15

15.1

Section 290 of the Communications Act 2003 (proposals for arrangements) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

15.2

In subsection (4)—

15.2.a

in paragraph (b), for “available for broadcasting in all regional Channel 3
services” substitute  “, in relation to each holder of such a licence,
available for inclusion in one or more qualifying audiovisual services
provided by that holder or a person associated with that holder” ;

15.2.b

in paragraph (c), for the words from “regional Channel 3 services” to the end
of the paragraph substitute  “holders of such licences and persons associated
with any of those holders to provide qualifying audiovisual services that
(taken as a whole) are able to compete effectively with other television
programme services and on-demand programme services provided in the United
Kingdom.”

15.3

After subsection (4) insert—

15.3.5

Section 362AZ12 (6)  (meaning of references to a person associated with a
public service broadcaster) applies for the purposes of subsection (4)(b) and
(c) as it applies for the purposes of Part 3A.

15.4

After subsection (5) (inserted by  subsection (3) ) insert—

15.4.6

See also section  278B  (which makes further provision for the interpretation
of this section).

15.5

In section 293 of that Act (review of approved networking arrangements etc),
in subsection (3), for “one year” substitute  “five years” .

##### Removal of quotas for schools programmes on Channel 4

16

Omit section 296 of the Communications Act 2003 (provision of schools
programmes on Channel 4).

##### Quotas: the BBC and S4C

17

Schedule 1  contains amendments relating to—

17.a

quotas for independent productions in relation to the BBC and S4C, and

17.b

quotas for original productions in relation to S4C.

#### Information

##### Power to require information

18

After section 338 of the Communications Act 2003 insert—

######### Information relating to certain OFCOM functions

########## Power to require information

18.338A

18.338A.1

OFCOM may by notice (an “information notice”) require a person within
subsection (4)  to provide them with any information that they require for the
purpose of carrying out their functions under—

18.338A.1.a

sections 198B to 198D,

18.338A.1.b

sections 263 to 294 and Schedule 11, and

18.338A.1.c

paragraphs 5 and 7 to 10 of Schedule 12.

18.338A.2

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  includes power to require a person
within  subsection (4)  to obtain or generate information.

18.338A.3

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  must be exercised in a way that is
proportionate to the use to which the information is to be put by OFCOM.

18.338A.4

The persons within this subsection are—

18.338A.4.a

a provider of a licensed public service channel;

18.338A.4.b

S4C;

18.338A.4.c

a person with whom a public service broadcaster has made such arrangements as
are referred to in section 264 (13) (b) ;

18.338A.4.d

a person who is not within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  but who provides a
media service (within the meaning of section 264A);

18.338A.4.e

a person who was within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  at a time to which
the required information relates;

18.338A.4.f

a person who is not within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (e)  but who appears to
OFCOM to have, or to be able to obtain or generate, information required by
them as mentioned in  subsection (1) .

18.338A.5

An information notice must—

18.338A.5.a

specify or describe the information to be provided,

18.338A.5.b

specify why OFCOM require the information,

18.338A.5.c

specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided, and

18.338A.5.d

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

18.338A.6

An information notice must specify when the information must be provided which
may be—

18.338A.6.a

on or by a specified date, or

18.338A.6.b

within a specified period.

18.338A.7

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  to require the provision of
information includes power to require the provision of information held
outside the United Kingdom.

18.338A.8

OFCOM may not use the power conferred by  subsection (1)  to require the BBC
to provide, obtain or generate information.

18.338A.9

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  does not include power to require the
provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications, could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

18.338A.10

A person to whom an information notice is given must provide the information
in accordance with any requirements included in the notice (subject to
subsection (11) ).

18.338A.11

The duty under  subsection (10)  does not require a disclosure of information
if that disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but, in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, that duty is to be taken into
account).

18.338A.12

In this section—

      “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ public service
broadcaster ” has the meaning given by section 264.

########## Penalties for failure to provide information

18.338B

18.338B.1

This section applies if—

18.338B.1.a

OFCOM have given an information notice under  section 338A  to a person within
section 338A (4) , and

18.338B.1.b

OFCOM have determined, after giving the person an opportunity to make
representations, that there are reasonable grounds for believing that there
was, or is, a failure by the person to comply with the information notice.

18.338B.2

OFCOM may give the person a notice (a “penalty notice”) requiring the person
to pay OFCOM a penalty of an amount specified in the notice.

18.338B.3

The penalty may include an amount for each day on which the person fails to
comply with the information notice.

18.338B.4

The amount of the penalty under  subsection (2)  is to be such amount, not
exceeding £250,000, as OFCOM determine to be—

18.338B.4.a

appropriate; and

18.338B.4.b

proportionate to the failure to comply in respect of which it is imposed.

18.338B.5

If the penalty notice is given in relation to a continuing failure to comply
with the information notice, the penalty notice may also require the person to
pay OFCOM a penalty of an amount specified in the penalty notice in respect of
each day after the giving of the penalty notice on which the failure
continues.

18.338B.6

The amount of a penalty under  subsection (5)  is to be such amount, not
exceeding £500 per day, as OFCOM determine to be—

18.338B.6.a

appropriate; and

18.338B.6.b

proportionate to the failure to comply in respect of which it is imposed.

18.338B.7

A penalty notice must—

18.338B.7.a

fix a reasonable period after it is given as the period within which a penalty
under  subsection (2)  is to be paid;

18.338B.7.b

where penalties under  subsection (5)  are imposed, fix a reasonable period as
the period within which such a penalty is to be paid.

18.338B.8

A financial penalty imposed under this section must be paid to OFCOM within
the period fixed by them.

#### Amount of financial penalties

##### Amount of financial penalties: qualifying revenue

19

19.1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended as set out in subsections  (2)  to  (5) .

19.2

In section 18 (failure to begin providing licensed Channel 3 service and
financial penalties on revocation of Channel 3 licence), in subsection (3D),
for “Section 19(2) to (6)” substitute  “Section  18A ” .

19.3

After section 18 insert—

########### Section 18: supplementary provision

19.3.18A

19.3.18A.1

For the purposes of section 18(3B) or (3C), the qualifying revenue for an
accounting period of a holder of a Channel 3 licence is the aggregate of—

19.3.18A.1.a

the qualifying revenue for that accounting period of the licence holder which
derives from that licensed service, and

19.3.18A.1.b

the qualifying revenue for that accounting period of the licence holder which
derives from any on-demand programme service, non-UK on-demand programme
service or television programme service that is—

19.3.18A.1.b.i

provided by the licence holder or a person associated with the licence holder,
and

19.3.18A.1.b.ii

included in an internet programme service that is designated under  section
362AA (2)  of the Communications Act 2003 as a service provided by the licence
holder or as a service provided by a person associated with the licence
holder.

19.3.18A.2

Section 19(2) to (6) applies for determining the qualifying revenue referred
to in  subsection (1) (a) .

19.3.18A.3

Section 368J(4), (5) and (7) of the Communications Act 2003 applies for
determining the qualifying revenue referred to in  subsection (1) (b)  which
derives from an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-demand programme
service.

19.3.18A.4

Section 19(2) and (4) to (6) applies for determining the qualifying revenue
referred to in  subsection (1) (b)  which derives from a television programme
service as if—

19.3.18A.4.a

in section 19(2) and (6), references to a Channel 3 service were references to
the television programme service,

19.3.18A.4.b

in section 19(2), (4) and (6), references to the holder of a Channel 3 licence
were references to the provider of the television programme service, and

19.3.18A.4.c

in section 19(2) and (6), the words “of the licence holder” were omitted.

19.3.18A.5

Section  362AZ12 (6)  of the Communications Act 2003 (meaning of references to
a person associated with a public service broadcaster) applies for the
purposes of this section as it applies for the purposes of Part 3A of that
Act.

19.3.18A.6

For the purposes of this section—

19.3.18A.6.a

the person who provides an internet programme service is the person treated
for the purposes of Part 3A of the Communications Act 2003 as providing that
service (see  section 362AZ12  of that Act), and

19.3.18A.6.b

the person who provides an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-demand
programme service is the person treated for the purposes of Part 4A of that
Act as providing that service (see section 368R of that Act).

19.3.18A.7

In this section—

      “ designated internet programme service ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3A of the Communications Act 2003 (see  section 362AZ12 (1) );
“ on-demand programme service ” and “non-UK on-demand programme service” have
the same meaning as in Part 4A of that Act (see section 368A).

19.4

In section 41 (power to impose financial penalty or shorten licence period of
a Channel 3 service, Channel 4 and Channel 5), for subsection (1C) substitute—

19.4.1C

Section  18A  applies for determining or estimating qualifying revenue for the
purposes of subsection (1A) or (1B), with any necessary modifications in
relation to the holder of the Channel 5 licence.

19.5

In Schedule 7 (qualifying revenue: supplementary provisions), in Part 1
(qualifying revenue for the purposes of Part 1 or 2 of this Act), in paragraph
1, after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

19.5.5

This paragraph does not apply in relation to such part of a person’s
qualifying revenue as falls to be ascertained in accordance with section 368J
of the Communications Act 2003 (see  section 18A (1) (b)  and  (3)  of this
Act).

19.6

In Schedule 9 to the Communications Act 2003 (arrangements about the carrying
on of C4C’s activities), in paragraph 8 (penalty for contravention of the
arrangements), for sub-paragraph (7) substitute—

19.6.7

Section  18A  of the 1990 Act, with any necessary modifications, has effect in
relation to C4C for the purposes of this paragraph as it has effect in
relation to the holder of a Channel 3 licence for the purposes of Part 1 of
the 1990 Act; and Part 1 of Schedule 7 to the 1990 Act has effect as if C4C’s
qualifying revenue for an accounting period were being ascertained for the
purposes of a provision of Part 1 of the 1990 Act.

#### Sporting and other events of national interest

##### Categories of relevant service

20

20.1

Section 98 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (categories of service) is amended as
follows.

20.2

For subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

20.2.1

For the purposes of this Part, relevant services are divided into two
categories as follows—

20.2.1.a

those relevant services which for the time being fall within  subsection (1A)
or  (2A) , and

20.2.1.b

all other relevant services.

20.2.1A

A television programme service falls within this subsection if it is—

20.2.1A.a

a service provided by the BBC or a BBC company otherwise than with a view to
generating a profit,

20.2.1A.b

a Channel 3 service, Channel 4 or Channel 5,

20.2.1A.c

S4C Digital, or

20.2.1A.d

a service, other than a Channel 3 service, Channel 4, Channel 5 or S4C
Digital, which is provided by the provider of one of those services or by a
Channel 4 company, S4C company or body corporate controlled by the provider of
a Channel 3 service or Channel 5,

and it satisfies the conditions in  subsection (2) .

20.2.2

The conditions in this subsection are—

20.2.2.a

that the television programme service may be received free of charge;

20.2.2.b

that, in the case of a service described in  subsection (1A) (d) , the
provider’s latest statement of programme policy under—

20.2.2.b.i

section 266 or 267 of the Communications Act 2003, or

20.2.2.b.ii

paragraph 4 of Schedule 12 to that Act,

states that the service will be used to fulfil the public service remit for
the Channel 3 service, Channel 4 or Channel 5 or (as the case may be) S4C’s
public service remit.

20.2.2A

A relevant service falls within this subsection if—

20.2.2A.a

it is or forms part of a designated internet programme service,

20.2.2A.b

where it is a service that forms part of a designated internet programme
service, it satisfies the conditions in  subsection (2B) , and

20.2.2A.c

it and the programmes included in it may be accessed free of charge.

20.2.2B

The conditions are—

20.2.2B.a

that the relevant service is provided by—

20.2.2B.a.i

the BBC or a person associated with the BBC otherwise than with a view to
generating a profit,

20.2.2B.a.ii

the provider of a Channel 3 service, Channel 4 or Channel 5,

20.2.2B.a.iii

S4C, or

20.2.2B.a.iv

a person associated with a broadcaster mentioned in  sub-paragraph (ii)  or
(iii) ;

20.2.2B.b

that, where it is provided by the BBC or a person associated with the BBC, the
service contributes to the promotion of one or more of the BBC’s public
purposes;

20.2.2B.c

that, where it is provided by a broadcaster referred to in  paragraph (a) (ii)
or  (iii)  or a person associated with such a broadcaster, the broadcaster’s
latest statement of programme policy under—

20.2.2B.c.i

section 266 or 267 of the Communications Act 2003, or

20.2.2B.c.ii

paragraph 4 of Schedule 12 to that Act,

states that the service will be used to fulfil the public service remit for
the Channel 3 service, Channel 4 or Channel 5 or (as the case may be) S4C’s
public service remit.

20.2.2C

Where a relevant service would satisfy the conditions in  subsection (2A)  but
for access to some of the programmes included in the service not being free of
charge—

20.2.2C.a

so much of the service as includes programmes that may be accessed free of
charge, and

20.2.2C.b

the remainder of the service,

are to be regarded as separate relevant services for the purposes of this
Part.

20.2.2D

Section 362AZ12 (6)  of the Communications Act 2003 (meaning of references to
a person associated with a public service broadcaster) applies for the
purposes of  subsection (2B)  as it applies for the purposes of Part 3A of
that Act.

20.3

In subsection (3) (disregard of TV licence fee), after “subsection (2)(a)”
insert  “,  (2A)  or  (2C) ” .

20.4

At the end insert—

20.4.7

In this Part, “ relevant service ” means—

20.4.7.a

a television programme service;

20.4.7.b

an on-demand programme service;

20.4.7.c

a non-UK on-demand programme service;

20.4.7.d

a service, or a dissociable section of a service, which has the following
characteristics—

20.4.7.d.i

its principal purpose is the provision of programmes;

20.4.7.d.ii

the programmes it provides are accessed by means of the internet;

20.4.7.d.iii

there is a person who has general control over what programmes are included in
the service or the dissociable section of the service (see  subsection (8) );

20.4.7.d.iv

it is made available by that person for use by members of the public;

20.4.7.d.v

the members of the public who use the service, or the dissociable section of
the service, are or include members of the public in the United Kingdom;

20.4.7.d.vi

it is not a television programme service, on-demand programme service or non-
UK on-demand programme service;

20.4.7.d.vii

it is not a service of the kind described in  section 362AA (10) (c)  of the
Communications Act 2003 (internet programme services which provide programmes
by means of an on-demand programme service or non-UK on-demand programme
service and at least one other service).

20.4.8

The person by reference to whom the requirement in  subsection (7) (d) (iii)
is satisfied need not have control of the contents of individual programmes or
of the distribution of the service.

20.4.9

In this section, “ programme ” means such programme as is described in section
368ZA of the Communications Act 2003.

##### Contracts relating to coverage of listed events

21

21.1

Section 99 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (contract for exclusive right to
televise listed event to be void) is amended as set out in subsections  (2)
and  (3) .

21.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

21.2.1

Any contract entered into on or after the day on which  section 21  of the
Media Act 2024 comes into force which grants rights to include in a relevant
service live coverage of the whole or any part of a Group A event for
reception in, or in order to be accessed by members of the public in, the
United Kingdom or any area of the United Kingdom is void so far as it
purports—

21.2.1.a

in relation to the whole or any part of the event, or

21.2.1.b

in relation to reception, or access by means of the internet, in the United
Kingdom or any part of the United Kingdom,

to grant those rights exclusively.

21.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

21.3.3

For the purposes of this section, rights for a relevant service (“the first
service”) to include live coverage of all or part of a Group A event in that
service for reception in, or in order to be accessed by members of the public
in, the United Kingdom or any area of the United Kingdom are granted
exclusively if the person granting them—

21.3.3.a

has not granted such rights to include live coverage of the whole or, as the
case may be, that part of the event in one or more other relevant services as
are sufficient to authorise, in accordance with  section 101 (2)  or  (3)  or,
as the case may be,  section 101 (4) , the inclusion in the first service of
the live coverage in question, and

21.3.3.b

is precluded by the terms of the contract from doing so.

21.4

Section 100 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (contract for televising listed event
must specify category of service) is amended as set out in subsections  (5)
and  (6) .

21.5

For subsection (1) substitute—

21.5.1

Any contract entered into on or after the day on which  section 21  of the
Media Act 2024 comes into force is void so far as it purports to grant rights
to include live coverage of the whole or any part of a listed event in a
relevant service for reception in, or in order to be accessed by members of
the public in, the United Kingdom, or any area of the United Kingdom, unless
the contract complies with subsection (2).

21.6

In subsection (2)—

21.6.a

for “the television programme provider” substitute  “the provider of the
relevant service” ;

21.6.b

in paragraph (a), for “television programme service” substitute  “relevant
service” ;

21.6.c

in paragraph (b), for “television programme service” substitute  “relevant
service” .

##### Restriction on showing live coverage of listed events

22

For section 101 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (restriction on televising of
listed event) substitute—

######### Restriction on showing live coverage

22.101

22.101.1

A provider of a relevant service who—

22.101.1.a

is providing a relevant service (“the first service”) falling within either
category, and

22.101.1.b

is providing it with a view to its being available to members of the public in
the United Kingdom or in any area of the United Kingdom,

must not include live coverage of a listed event in that service unless it is
authorised by subsection  (2) ,  (3) ,  (4) ,  (5)  or  (6) .

22.101.2

Live coverage of a listed event is authorised by this subsection if—

22.101.2.a

identical rights to include live coverage of the event in a relevant service
other than the first service (“the second service”) have been acquired, and

22.101.2.b

the second service—

22.101.2.b.i

is provided by a person other than the provider of the first service,

22.101.2.b.ii

falls into a different category from the first service,

22.101.2.b.iii

is not a relevant service other than the first service only because section 98
(2C)  applies to it, and

22.101.2.b.iv

is provided for an area that consists of or includes all or almost all of the
area for which the first service is provided.

22.101.3

Live coverage of a listed event is authorised by this subsection if—

22.101.3.a

rights to include live coverage of the event in two or more relevant services
other than the first service (“the second and further services”) have been
acquired,

22.101.3.b

those rights, taken together, constitute identical rights to include live
coverage of the event in the second and further services,

22.101.3.c

each of the second and further services—

22.101.3.c.i

is provided by a person other than the provider of the first service,

22.101.3.c.ii

falls into a different category from the first service,

22.101.3.c.iii

is not a relevant service other than the first service only because section 98
(2C)  applies to it, and

22.101.3.c.iv

is provided for an area that consists of or includes all or almost all of the
area for which the first service is provided.

22.101.4

Live coverage of a listed event is authorised by this subsection if—

22.101.4.a

the event is a sporting event that involves different sports,

22.101.4.b

rights to include live coverage of the event in two or more relevant services
other than the first service (“the second and further services”) have been
acquired,

22.101.4.c

that additional coverage, taken as a whole, is adequate live coverage of the
event,

22.101.4.d

at least two of the second and further services are television programme
services, and

22.101.4.e

each of the second and further services—

22.101.4.e.i

is provided by a person other than the provider of the first service,

22.101.4.e.ii

falls into a different category from the first service,

22.101.4.e.iii

is not a relevant service other than the first service only because section 98
(2C)  applies to it, and

22.101.4.e.iv

is provided for an area that consists of or includes all or almost all of the
area for which the first service is provided.

22.101.5

Live coverage of a listed event is authorised by this subsection if OFCOM have
consented in advance to inclusion of that coverage in the first service.

22.101.6

Live coverage of a listed event is authorised by this subsection if—

22.101.6.a

the listed event is a Group B event,

22.101.6.b

rights to provide coverage of the event have been acquired by one or more
persons in addition to the provider of the first service,

22.101.6.c

that additional coverage constitutes adequate alternative coverage of the
event, and

22.101.6.d

the person or persons who have acquired rights to provide the additional
coverage satisfy the requirements in relation to that coverage of any
regulations made under section 104ZA for the purposes of this paragraph.

22.101.7

Subsections  (1)  to  (6)  apply in relation to the coverage of a part of a
listed event as they apply in relation to the coverage of the whole of that
event.

22.101.8

OFCOM may revoke any consent given by them for the purposes of  subsection (5)
.

22.101.9

Failure to comply with  subsection (1)  does not affect the validity of any
contract.

22.101.10

Subsection (1)  does not have effect where the person providing the first
service is exercising rights acquired before the commencement of  section 22
of the Media Act 2024.

22.101.11

References in this section to a category of service are to a category of
service set out in section 98 (1) .

##### Regulations about coverage of listed events

23

23.1

Section 104ZA of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (regulations about coverage of
listed events) is amended as follows.

23.2

In subsection (1)—

23.2.a

in paragraph (a)—

23.2.a.i

for “televising” substitute  “coverage” ;

23.2.a.ii

after “live” insert  “coverage” ;

23.2.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

23.2.b.aa

what (whether generally or in relation to particular circumstances) is to be
taken to represent the provision of adequate live coverage for the purposes of
section 101(4)(c);

;

23.2.c

in paragraph (b), after “coverage” insert  “for the purposes of  section 101
(6) (c) ” ;

23.2.d

in paragraph (c), for “section 101(1C)(d)” substitute  “ section 101 (6) (d) ”
.

23.3

In subsection (2), for ““live”” substitute  ““live coverage”” .

23.4

After subsection (2) insert—

23.4.2A

Regulations made by virtue of subsection (1)(aa) may, in particular—

23.4.2A.a

describe what represents the provision of adequate live coverage by reference
to—

23.4.2A.a.i

the duration of the live coverage (whether expressed as a percentage of the
duration of the proceedings or otherwise),

23.4.2A.a.ii

the numbers of relevant services of particular descriptions in which the live
coverage is included (subject to  section 101 (4) (d) ), or

23.4.2A.a.iii

a combination of those matters;

23.4.2A.b

provide for live coverage not to be taken into account if the provider of the
service is unable to select what parts of the proceedings are covered.

23.4.2B

When making regulations by virtue of subsection (1)(aa), OFCOM must have
regard to—

23.4.2B.a

the forms of live coverage that OFCOM consider are likely to satisfy the
interest of members of the public in the United Kingdom or an area of the
United Kingdom in listed events of the sort to which section 101(4)(c)
relates;

23.4.2B.b

the desirability of facilitating the making of arrangements under which rights
to include live coverage of sporting events that involve different sports are
acquired by providers of relevant services in both of the categories of
relevant service set out in section 98(1).

##### Provision of information

24

24.1

Section 104A of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (provision of information) is
amended as set out in subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

24.2

Renumber subsection (2) as subsection (12).

24.3

Before subsection (12) (as renumbered by  subsection (2) ) insert—

24.3.2

OFCOM may by notice (an “information notice”) require a person within
subsection (5)  to provide them with any information that they require for the
purpose of carrying out their functions under this Part relating to listed
events.

24.3.3

The power conferred by  subsection (2)  includes power to require a person
within  subsection (5)  to obtain or generate information.

24.3.4

The power conferred by  subsection (2)  must be exercised in a way that is
proportionate to the use to which the information is to be put by OFCOM.

24.3.5

The persons within this subsection are—

24.3.5.a

a provider of a relevant service;

24.3.5.b

a person who was a provider of a relevant service at a time to which the
required information relates;

24.3.5.c

a person who is not within  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  but who appears to OFCOM
to have, or to be able to obtain or generate, information required by them as
mentioned in  subsection (2) .

24.3.6

An information notice must—

24.3.6.a

specify or describe the information to be provided,

24.3.6.b

specify why OFCOM require the information,

24.3.6.c

specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided, and

24.3.6.d

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

24.3.7

An information notice must specify when the information must be provided which
may be—

24.3.7.a

on or by a specified date, or

24.3.7.b

within a specified period.

24.3.8

The power conferred by  subsection (2)  to require the provision of
information includes power to require the provision of information held
outside the United Kingdom.

24.3.9

The power conferred by  subsection (2)  does not include power to require the
provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications, could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

24.3.10

A person to whom an information notice is given must provide the information
in accordance with any requirements included in the notice (subject to
subsection (11) ).

24.3.11

The duty under  subsection (10)  does not require a disclosure of information
if that disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but, in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, that duty is to be taken into
account).

24.4

After subsection (12) (as renumbered by  subsection (2) ) insert—

24.4.13

In this section, “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in
the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

24.5

After that section insert—

########### Penalties for failure to provide information

24.5.104B

24.5.104B.1

This section applies if—

24.5.104B.1.a

OFCOM have given an information notice under section 104A (2)  to a person
within section 104A (5) , and

24.5.104B.1.b

OFCOM have determined, after giving the person an opportunity to make
representations, that there are reasonable grounds for believing that there
was, or is, a failure by the person to comply with the information notice.

24.5.104B.2

OFCOM may give the person a notice (a “penalty notice”) requiring the person
to pay OFCOM a penalty of an amount specified in the notice.

24.5.104B.3

The penalty may include an amount for each day on which the person fails to
comply with the information notice.

24.5.104B.4

The amount of the penalty under  subsection (2)  is to be such amount, not
exceeding £250,000, as OFCOM determine to be—

24.5.104B.4.a

appropriate; and

24.5.104B.4.b

proportionate to the failure to comply in respect of which it is imposed.

24.5.104B.5

If the penalty notice is given in relation to a continuing failure to comply
with the information notice, the penalty notice may also require the person to
pay OFCOM a penalty of an amount specified in the penalty notice in respect of
each day after the giving of the penalty notice on which the failure
continues.

24.5.104B.6

The amount of a penalty under  subsection (5)  is to be such amount, not
exceeding £500 per day, as OFCOM determine to be—

24.5.104B.6.a

appropriate; and

24.5.104B.6.b

proportionate to the failure to comply in respect of which it is imposed.

24.5.104B.7

A penalty notice must—

24.5.104B.7.a

fix a reasonable period after it is given as the period within which a penalty
under  subsection (2)  is to be paid;

24.5.104B.7.b

where penalties under  subsection (5)  are imposed, fix a reasonable period as
the period within which such a penalty is to be paid.

24.5.104B.8

A financial penalty imposed under this section must be paid to OFCOM within
the period fixed by them.

24.5.104B.9

Where OFCOM receive an amount payable to them by virtue of  subsection (8) ,
that amount is to be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

24.5.104B.10

An amount payable by a person to OFCOM by virtue of  subsection (8)  is
recoverable by OFCOM as a debt due to OFCOM from that person.

##### Sections 

25

25.1

An amendment made by sections  20  to  23  or paragraphs  12  to  19  of
Schedule 2  does not affect the validity of a contract entered into before
sections  20  to  23  come into force or the exercise of rights acquired under
such a contract.

25.2

On the date on which  section 21  comes into force, the Secretary of State
must revise the list maintained for the purposes of Part 4 of the Broadcasting
Act 1996 in order to allocate each event which is a listed event on that date
either to Group A or Group B.

25.3

Where—

25.3.a

the events listed in the list in force immediately before the Secretary of
State revises it under  subsection (2)  are treated, for any of the purposes
of the code in force under section 104 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 at that
time, as divided into two categories, and

25.3.b

the Secretary of State’s revision under  subsection (2)  makes the same
division,

section 97(2) of the Broadcasting Act 1996 is not to apply in relation to that
revision of the list.

25.4

OFCOM must draw up a code under section 104 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 as
soon as practicable after  paragraph 18  of  Schedule 2  to this Act
(amendments of section 104) comes into force.

25.5

The code drawn up by OFCOM in accordance with  subsection (4)  is not to have
effect in relation to any time before  section 22  of this Act comes into
force.

25.6

Regulations under  section 55 (5)  (transitional, transitory or saving
provision in connection with commencement) may provide for the old section 104
code to continue to have effect in relation to cases specified in the
regulations after the coming into force of the code drawn up by OFCOM in
accordance with  subsection (4) .

25.7

In this section—

      “ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications;           “ the old
section 104 code ” means the code drawn up under section 104 of the
Broadcasting Act 1996 which is continued in effect by paragraph 51(2) of
Schedule 18 to the Communications Act 2003.

#### Public teletext service

##### Public teletext service

26

In the Communications Act 2003, omit sections 218 to 223 (duty to secure the
provision of a public teletext service etc).

#### Further amendments

##### Further amendments relating to public service television

27

Schedule 2  contains further amendments relating to this Part.

### Prominence on television selection services

#### Prominence on television selection services

28

28.1

In the Communications Act 2003, after Part 3 insert—

########## Prominence on television selection services

########### Designated internet programme services

############ Designation of internet programme services

28.1.362AA

28.1.362AA.1

In this Part, “ designated internet programme service ” means—

28.1.362AA.1.a

an internet programme service provided by the BBC,

28.1.362AA.1.b

an internet programme service provided by a public service broadcaster other
than the BBC and designated by OFCOM under  subsection (2)  for the purposes
of this Part, or

28.1.362AA.1.c

an internet programme service provided by a person associated with a public
service broadcaster and designated by OFCOM as described in  paragraph (b) .

28.1.362AA.2

OFCOM may designate an internet programme service provided by a public service
broadcaster other than the BBC or a person associated with a public service
broadcaster if—

28.1.362AA.2.a

the service satisfies the conditions in  subsection (3) ,  (4)  or  (5)  that
apply to it; and

28.1.362AA.2.b

OFCOM consider that it is appropriate to designate the service.

28.1.362AA.3

The conditions in the case of an internet programme service provided by the
provider of a licensed public service channel or a person associated with the
provider of that licensed public service channel are—

28.1.362AA.3.a

that the service makes or would, if designated, be capable of making—

28.1.362AA.3.a.i

a significant contribution to the fulfilment of the public service remit for
that licensed public service channel, or

28.1.362AA.3.a.ii

in a case where the provider of the service is, in relation to two or more
licensed public service channels, either the provider of, or a person
associated with the provider of, the channels, a significant contribution to
the fulfilment of the public service remit for at least one of those licensed
public service channels; and

28.1.362AA.3.b

that the public service remit content included in the service is readily
discoverable and is promoted by the service.

28.1.362AA.4

The conditions in the case of an internet programme service provided by S4C or
a person associated with S4C are—

28.1.362AA.4.a

that the service makes or would, if designated, be capable of making a
significant contribution to the fulfilment of S4C’s public service remit; and

28.1.362AA.4.b

that the public service remit content included in the service is readily
discoverable and is promoted by the service.

28.1.362AA.5

The conditions in the case of an internet programme service provided by a
person associated with the BBC are—

28.1.362AA.5.a

that the service makes or would, if designated, be capable of making a
significant contribution to the promotion of one or more of the BBC’s public
purposes; and

28.1.362AA.5.b

that the material contributing to the promotion of one or more of those
purposes which is included in the service is readily discoverable and is
promoted by the service.

28.1.362AA.6

In considering whether an internet programme service provided by a person
other than the BBC satisfies the conditions in  subsection (3) ,  (4)  or  (5)
that apply to it, OFCOM must have regard to any statement for the time being
published by OFCOM under  section 362AC .

28.1.362AA.7

In considering whether it is appropriate to designate an internet programme
service provided by a public service broadcaster other than the BBC or a
person associated with such a broadcaster, OFCOM must have regard, in
particular, to the following matters—

28.1.362AA.7.a

any proposals included in any such public service broadcaster’s latest
statement of programme policy published under section 266 or 267 or paragraph
4 of Schedule 12 as to the contribution that the internet programme service
will make towards fulfilling the public service remit for its licensed public
service channel or (as the case may be) S4C’s public service remit;

28.1.362AA.7.b

whether that proposed contribution is capable of satisfying the needs and
interests of—

28.1.362AA.7.b.i

a specific audience, in a case where the service would, if designated, be the
second or further designated internet programme service provided by a public
service broadcaster or a person associated with that broadcaster, or

28.1.362AA.7.b.ii

a wide range of audiences, in any other case;

28.1.362AA.7.c

in relation to any such public service broadcaster whose public service remit
content is included in the internet programme service, how effective and
efficient is the broadcaster’s monitoring of its performance so far as
relating to the fulfilment of the public service remit for its licensed public
service channel or (as the case may be) S4C’s public service remit.

28.1.362AA.8

In considering whether it is appropriate to designate an internet programme
service provided by a person associated with the BBC, OFCOM must have regard,
in particular, to the following matters—

28.1.362AA.8.a

any proposals included in a statement of policy made by the BBC in pursuance
of the BBC Charter and Agreement as to the contribution that the service will
make towards the promotion of one or more of the BBC’s public purposes;

28.1.362AA.8.b

whether that proposed contribution is capable of satisfying the needs and
interests of—

28.1.362AA.8.b.i

a specific audience, in a case where the service would, if designated, be the
second or further designated internet programme service provided by the BBC or
a person associated with the BBC, or

28.1.362AA.8.b.ii

a wide range of audiences, in any other case;

28.1.362AA.8.c

how effective and efficient is the BBC’s monitoring of the contribution of
persons associated with the BBC to the promotion of one or more of the BBC’s
public purposes.

28.1.362AA.9

Before designating an internet programme service, OFCOM must consult—

28.1.362AA.9.a

the provider of the service;

28.1.362AA.9.b

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

28.1.362AA.10

In this Part, a reference to an internet programme service is a reference to—

28.1.362AA.10.a

an on-demand programme service where the programmes viewed by a user of the
service are accessed by the user by means of the internet,

28.1.362AA.10.b

a non-UK on-demand programme service where the programmes viewed by a user of
the service are accessed by the user by means of the internet, or

28.1.362AA.10.c

a service which satisfies the requirements in  subsection (11) .

28.1.362AA.11

The requirements are—

28.1.362AA.11.a

that the principal purpose of the service is the provision of programmes,

28.1.362AA.11.b

that the programmes viewed by a user of the service are accessed by the user
by means of the internet, and

28.1.362AA.11.c

that the programmes it provides to a user of the service are contained in—

28.1.362AA.11.c.i

such on-demand programme service as is described in  subsection (10) (a)  or
such non-UK on-demand programme service as is described in  subsection (10)
(b) , and

28.1.362AA.11.c.ii

another service which is, or two or more other services each of which is, such
an on-demand programme service, such a non-UK on-demand programme service, or
a service (other than those kinds of service) that consists of, or has as its
principal purpose the provision of, programmes.

28.1.362AA.12

In this section—

      “ public service remit ”—         in relation to a Channel 3 service or
Channel 5, has the meaning given by section 265(2);           in relation to
Channel 4, has the meaning given by section 265(3);           in relation to
S4C, has the meaning given by  section 204A ;                 “ public service
remit content ”, in relation to an internet programme service provided by a
public service broadcaster other than the BBC or a person associated with such
a broadcaster, means material included in the internet programme service that
contributes to the fulfilment of—         the public service remit for the
licensed public service channel in question, or           S4C’s public service
remit (as the case may be).

############ Revocation of designation

28.1.362AB

28.1.362AB.1

If an internet programme service provided by a person other than a public
service broadcaster is designated under  section 362AA (2) , the designation
is revoked on the person ceasing to be associated with—

28.1.362AB.1.a

if the person is associated with only one public service broadcaster, that
public service broadcaster, or

28.1.362AB.1.b

if the person is associated with more than one public service broadcaster, all
of those public service broadcasters.

28.1.362AB.2

OFCOM may give notice under  subsection (3)  to a person other than the BBC
who provides a designated internet programme service if OFCOM consider that
there are reasonable grounds for believing that—

28.1.362AB.2.a

a designated internet programme service provided by that person is not making
such contribution as is described in  subsection (3) (a) ,  subsection (4) (a)
or (as the case may be)  subsection (5) (a)  of  section 362AA ,

28.1.362AB.2.b

the content included in the service which is of the description referred to in
subsection (3) (b) ,  subsection (4) (b)  or (as the case may be)  subsection
(5) (b)  of  section 362AA  is not readily discoverable or is not promoted by
the service, or

28.1.362AB.2.c

the service is not a service that it would be appropriate for OFCOM to
designate under  section 362AA (2) .

28.1.362AB.3

A notice under this subsection must—

28.1.362AB.3.a

state that OFCOM consider that there are reasonable grounds for believing the
matter in paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  of  subsection (2) ;

28.1.362AB.3.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for that opinion;

28.1.362AB.3.c

give OFCOM’s reasons for proposing to revoke the designation of the internet
programme service;

28.1.362AB.3.d

state that the person may make representations to OFCOM about the matters
contained in the notice;

28.1.362AB.3.e

specify the period within which such representations may be made.

28.1.362AB.4

Where the period allowed for representations has expired, OFCOM must, after
considering any representations that have been made—

28.1.362AB.4.a

decide whether or not to revoke the designation, and

28.1.362AB.4.b

give notice to the person of their decision.

28.1.362AB.5

Where OFCOM decide to revoke a designation, a notice under  subsection (4) (b)
must—

28.1.362AB.5.a

state that OFCOM are satisfied as to the matter in paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or
(c)  of  subsection (2) ;

28.1.362AB.5.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for being so satisfied.

28.1.362AB.6

In considering whether there are reasonable grounds for believing the matter
in paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  of  subsection (2)  or whether they are
satisfied as to that matter, OFCOM must have regard to any statement for the
time being published by OFCOM under  section 362AC .

28.1.362AB.7

OFCOM must revoke a designation of an internet programme service under
section 362AA (2)  if the person providing the service requests them to do so.

############ Statement relating to designation functions

28.1.362AC

28.1.362AC.1

OFCOM must prepare and publish a statement providing—

28.1.362AC.1.a

information about the methods applied in determining the matters in sections
362AA (3) ,  (4)  and  (5)  and  362AB (2) , and

28.1.362AC.1.b

such other information relating to the determination of those matters as OFCOM
consider appropriate.

28.1.362AC.2

OFCOM may revise or replace a statement published under this section and,
where they do so, must publish the revised or replacement statement.

############ Notifications in relation to designated internet programme services

28.1.362AD

28.1.362AD.1

Where an internet programme service provided by a person associated with a
public service broadcaster has been designated under  section 362AA (2) , the
person must give notice to OFCOM if the person ceases to be a person
associated with that public service broadcaster.

28.1.362AD.2

A notice given to OFCOM under this section must—

28.1.362AD.2.a

be sent in such manner as OFCOM may require;

28.1.362AD.2.b

contain such information as OFCOM may require.

########### Regulated television selection services

############ Meaning of “television selection service”

28.1.362AE

28.1.362AE.1

In this Part, “ television selection service ” means a service or a
dissociable section of a service, provided by means of the internet and in
connection with internet television equipment, which consists of—

28.1.362AE.1.a

the presentation of the internet programme services included in the service or
the dissociable section of the service, and

28.1.362AE.1.b

a facility that enables the user—

28.1.362AE.1.b.i

to make a selection between those services or between programmes provided by
those services or both, and

28.1.362AE.1.b.ii

to access the service selected or the programme selected or both.

28.1.362AE.2

In  subsection (1) , “ internet television equipment ” means any apparatus or
combination of apparatus specified in regulations made by the Secretary of
State setting out the descriptions of apparatus or combinations of apparatus
that are internet television equipment for the purposes of this Part.

28.1.362AE.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2)  may—

28.1.362AE.3.a

provide for references to internet television equipment to include references
to software used in association with apparatus, and

28.1.362AE.3.b

describe apparatus or a combination of apparatus by reference to software used
in association with the apparatus or any of it.

28.1.362AE.4

Exceptions in regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2)  may include
exceptions relating to the purpose or purposes for which a description of
apparatus may be used in addition to the purpose of viewing internet programme
services.

28.1.362AE.5

The person, and the only person, who is to be treated for the purposes of this
Part as providing a television selection service is the person who has general
control over the manner in which the service presents to its users the
internet programme services that are included in the service.

28.1.362AE.6

The fact that a television selection service relies to any extent on
algorithms to determine the prominence given to—

28.1.362AE.6.a

an internet programme service included in the service, or

28.1.362AE.6.b

any programme provided by an internet programme service included in the
service,

does not prevent a person from having general control as described in
subsection (5) .

28.1.362AE.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

28.1.362AE.7.a

amend this section so as to alter the definition of “television selection
service” or “internet television equipment”, and

28.1.362AE.7.b

make such amendments or repeals of any provision of this Act or any other Act
as appear to the Secretary of State to be expedient in consequence of the
amendments made by virtue of  paragraph (a) .

28.1.362AE.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (7)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

############ Meaning of “regulated television selection service”

28.1.362AF

28.1.362AF.1

In this Part, “ regulated television selection service ” means a television
selection service which—

28.1.362AF.1.a

is for the time being designated by regulations made by the Secretary of
State, or

28.1.362AF.1.b

is of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

28.1.362AF.2

The Secretary of State may not exercise the power under  subsection (1) (a)
so as to cause a television selection service to become a regulated television
selection service unless the Secretary of State considers that the service is
used by a significant number of members of the public in the United Kingdom.

28.1.362AF.3

Regulations under  subsection (1) (b)  may, in particular, frame a description
of television selection services by reference to—

28.1.362AF.3.a

a television selection service being used, or being used in a manner specified
in the regulations, by no fewer than such number of members of the public in
the United Kingdom as may be specified in the regulations;

28.1.362AF.3.b

the date on which a television selection service is first made available to
members of the public in the United Kingdom;

28.1.362AF.3.c

the functions that a television selection service is capable of carrying out
or may be made capable of carrying out.

28.1.362AF.4

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) , the Secretary
of State must have received a report under  section 362AG  relating to the
television selection service or description of television selection services
in question.

############ Advice from OFCOM

28.1.362AG

28.1.362AG.1

OFCOM may prepare reports making recommendations about the exercise of the
power under  section 362AF (1) (a)  or  (b) .

28.1.362AG.2

Where—

28.1.362AG.2.a

the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under  section 362AF (1)
(a)  or  (b) , and

28.1.362AG.2.b

the Secretary of State has not received a report under  subsection (1)
relating to the television selection service or description of television
selection services that would be affected by the proposed regulations,

the Secretary of State must request OFCOM to prepare a report making
recommendations about the exercise of the power under  section 362AF (1) (a)
or  (b)  in relation to that service or services of that description.

28.1.362AG.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under  subsection (2) , OFCOM
must prepare such a report as soon as practicable.

28.1.362AG.4

A report under  subsection (1)  or  (3)  relating to the exercise of the power
under  section 362AF (1) (a)  must include OFCOM’s assessment of—

28.1.362AG.4.a

the number of members of the public in the United Kingdom using that service
and whether that number is significant;

28.1.362AG.4.b

the manner in which that service is used by such persons;

28.1.362AG.4.c

whether that service is capable of functioning as a regulated television
selection service and the modifications, if any, that are needed to make it so
capable;

28.1.362AG.4.d

such matters as OFCOM consider likely to affect the matters referred to in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) .

28.1.362AG.5

A report under  subsection (1)  or  (3)  relating to the exercise of the power
under  section 362AF (1) (b)  must include OFCOM’s assessment of—

28.1.362AG.5.a

which television selection services are likely to fall within the description
of television selection services in question;

28.1.362AG.5.b

such matters as OFCOM consider relevant to the assessment described in
paragraph  (a) .

28.1.362AG.6

OFCOM must give the Secretary of State a report prepared under  subsection (1)
or  (3) .

28.1.362AG.7

If the Secretary of State exercises the power under  section 362AF (1) (a)  or
(b)  in a manner which differs materially from recommendations made in a
report under this section, the Secretary of State must publish, no later than
the time at which the regulations are made, a statement giving the Secretary
of State’s reasons for doing so.

28.1.362AG.8

OFCOM must publish reports given to the Secretary of State under this section.

28.1.362AG.9

OFCOM must prepare and publish a statement about the principles and methods
applied by OFCOM in preparing a report under  subsection (1)  or  (3) .

28.1.362AG.10

OFCOM may revise or replace a statement published under this section and,
where they do so, must publish the revised or replacement statement.

########### Notification by providers of television selection services

############ Notification by providers of television selection services

28.1.362AH

28.1.362AH.1

A provider of a television selection service must give notice to OFCOM if the
service is or becomes a television selection service of a description
specified in regulations made by virtue of  section 362AF (1) (b) .

28.1.362AH.2

A provider of a television selection service must give notice to OFCOM if,
having been a service of a description specified in regulations made by virtue
of  section 362AF (1) (b) , the service ceases to be a service of such a
description.

28.1.362AH.3

A provider of a regulated television selection service must give notice to
OFCOM if the provider ceases to provide that service.

28.1.362AH.4

A notice given to OFCOM under this section must—

28.1.362AH.4.a

be sent in such manner as OFCOM may require;

28.1.362AH.4.b

contain such information as OFCOM may require.

########### Lists of services

############ Lists of services

28.1.362AI

28.1.362AI.1

OFCOM must establish and maintain up to date lists of—

28.1.362AI.1.a

designated internet programme services; and

28.1.362AI.1.b

regulated television selection services and their providers.

28.1.362AI.2

OFCOM must publish the up to date lists on a publicly accessible part of their
website.

########### Must-offer and must-carry obligations

############ Must-offer obligations in the case of designated internet programme services

28.1.362AJ

28.1.362AJ.1

The provider of a designated internet programme service must at all times
offer the service as available (subject to the need to agree terms) to be, in
relation to every regulated television selection service, included in the
regulated television selection service.

28.1.362AJ.2

The provider of a designated internet programme service must do its best to
secure that, in relation to every regulated television selection service,
arrangements are entered into, and kept in force, that ensure that the service
is included in the regulated television selection service.

28.1.362AJ.3

The provider of a designated internet programme service must act consistently
with the agreement objectives when entering into such arrangements and while
they are in force.

28.1.362AJ.4

Subsections  (1)  to  (3)  do not apply where the provider of a designated
internet programme service is the BBC.

############ Must-carry obligations

28.1.362AK

28.1.362AK.1

The provider of a regulated television selection service must—

28.1.362AK.1.a

in respect of each designated internet programme service, enter into
arrangements with the provider of the designated internet programme service
for the regulated television selection service to include that designated
internet programme service, and

28.1.362AK.1.b

keep them in force.

28.1.362AK.2

The provider of a regulated television selection service must act consistently
with the agreement objectives when entering into arrangements in pursuance of
subsection (1)  and while they are in force.

28.1.362AK.3

For provision applying where there is a dispute about the arrangements that
should be made or their operation, see sections  362AT  to  362AY .

############ Guidance as regards agreement objectives

28.1.362AL

28.1.362AL.1

OFCOM must prepare and publish guidance about how providers of designated
internet programme services and providers of regulated television selection
services may act consistently with the agreement objectives.

28.1.362AL.2

The reference in  subsection (1)  to acting consistently with the agreement
objectives is to be treated, in relation to the BBC, as a reference to
carrying out any duty of the BBC under the BBC Charter and Agreement that is
comparable to the duty of providers of designated internet programme services
other than the BBC under  section 362AJ (3) .

28.1.362AL.3

OFCOM may revise and replace any guidance published under this section and,
where they do, must publish the revised or replacement guidance.

28.1.362AL.4

Before preparing guidance under this section (or revising or replacing it),
OFCOM must consult—

28.1.362AL.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

28.1.362AL.4.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

28.1.362AL.5

In exercising or deciding whether to exercise any of their powers under
sections  362AU  to  362AX , OFCOM must have regard to any guidance for the
time being published under this section.

############ Meaning of “the agreement objectives”

28.1.362AM

28.1.362AM.1

In sections  362AJ  to  362AL  “the agreement objectives” are—

28.1.362AM.1.a

that a designated internet programme service is given an appropriate degree of
prominence within a regulated television selection service;

28.1.362AM.1.b

that, in a case where a designated internet programme service contributes to—

28.1.362AM.1.b.i

the fulfilment of the public service remit for a licensed public service
channel,

28.1.362AM.1.b.ii

the fulfilment of S4C’s public service remit, or

28.1.362AM.1.b.iii

the promotion of one or more of the BBC’s public purposes,

the arrangements made between the provider of that designated internet
programme service and the provider of a regulated television selection service
do not adversely affect the ability of the provider of that channel to fulfil
the public service remit for that channel, the ability of S4C to fulfil S4C’s
public service remit or (as the case may be) the ability of the BBC to promote
its public purposes;

28.1.362AM.1.c

that arrangements so made do not disproportionately restrict how the provider
of a regulated television selection service may make innovations in the ways
that users may select and access internet programme services or programmes
included in such services.

28.1.362AM.2

The reference in  subsection (1) (a)  to a designated internet programme
service being given an appropriate degree of prominence within a regulated
television selection service includes a reference to an appropriate degree of
prominence being given to public service remit content and any listed channel
included in that designated internet programme service, so far as the
prominence of that content or channel is capable of being affected by the
operation of the regulated television selection service.

28.1.362AM.3

The following are listed channels for the purposes of this section—

28.1.362AM.3.a

any service of television programmes provided by the BBC so as to be available
for use by members of the public;

28.1.362AM.3.b

any Channel 3 service;

28.1.362AM.3.c

Channel 4;

28.1.362AM.3.d

Channel 5;

28.1.362AM.3.e

S4C Digital.

########### Duties relating to a designated internet programme service

############ Duties relating to a designated internet programme service

28.1.362AN

28.1.362AN.1

The provider of a designated internet programme service must ensure that—

28.1.362AN.1.a

the service makes such contribution as is described in  subsection (3) (a) ,
subsection (4) (a)  or (as the case may be)  subsection (5) (a)  of  section
362AA , and

28.1.362AN.1.b

such material included in the service as is described in  subsection (3) (b) ,
subsection (4) (b)  or (as the case may be)  subsection (5) (b)  of  section
362AA  is readily discoverable and is promoted by the service.

28.1.362AN.2

Subsection (1)  does not apply where the provider of a designated internet
programme service is the BBC.

########### Duties relating to a regulated television selection service

############ Duties relating to a regulated television selection service

28.1.362AO

28.1.362AO.1

A provider of a regulated television selection service must secure that the
manner in which its service presents internet programme services to its users
in the United Kingdom gives an appropriate degree of prominence to each of the
designated internet programme services included in its service.

28.1.362AO.2

Subsection  (1)  does not require that a designated internet programme service
be given prominence, or the same degree of prominence, in relation to every
area of the United Kingdom.

28.1.362AO.3

The reference in subsection  (1)  to giving an appropriate degree of
prominence to a designated internet programme service included in a regulated
television selection service includes a reference to giving an appropriate
degree of prominence to—

28.1.362AO.3.a

material that is public service remit content or contributes to the promotion
of one or more of the BBC’s public purposes included in that designated
internet programme service, and

28.1.362AO.3.b

any listed channel included in that designated internet programme service,

so far as the prominence of that material or channel is affected by the
operation of the regulated television selection service.

28.1.362AO.4

A provider of a regulated television selection service must incorporate
features in the service that secure that persons with disabilities, in
particular those affecting their sight or hearing or both—

28.1.362AO.4.a

are able, so far as practicable, to make use of the service for all the same
purposes as persons without disabilities; and

28.1.362AO.4.b

are informed about, and are able to make use of, whatever assistance for
disabled people is provided in relation to the internet programme services
included in the service.

28.1.362AO.5

In this section “ assistance for disabled people ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3 (see section 362(1)).

############ Code of practice

28.1.362AP

28.1.362AP.1

OFCOM must issue a code of practice describing actions that OFCOM recommend
for the purpose of securing that the manner in which a regulated television
selection service presents internet programme services to its users complies
with the duties in  section 362AO .

28.1.362AP.2

OFCOM may—

28.1.362AP.2.a

revise a code of practice issued under this section and issue the code as
revised;

28.1.362AP.2.b

withdraw a code of practice issued under this section and issue a new code of
practice.

28.1.362AP.3

OFCOM must—

28.1.362AP.3.a

publish a code of practice issued under this section in such manner as they
consider appropriate;

28.1.362AP.3.b

keep a code of practice issued under this section under review.

28.1.362AP.4

If requested by the Secretary of State to review all or part of a code of
practice issued under this section, OFCOM must review the code or that part of
it.

28.1.362AP.5

OFCOM must secure that the actions recommended in a code of practice issued
under this section are consistent with the agreement objectives.

28.1.362AP.6

The actions recommended in a code of practice issued under this section may
include—

28.1.362AP.6.a

actions relating to particular descriptions of regulated television selection
services;

28.1.362AP.6.b

actions relating to particular descriptions of internet programme services.

############ Effects of the code of practice

28.1.362AQ

28.1.362AQ.1

The provider of a regulated television selection service is to be treated as
complying with the duty in  section 362AO (1)  or  (4)  if the provider takes
the actions described in the code of practice which are recommended for the
purpose of complying with the duty.

28.1.362AQ.2

A failure by the provider of a regulated television selection service to act
in accordance with a provision of the code of practice does not of itself make
the provider liable to legal proceedings before a court or tribunal.

28.1.362AQ.3

In any legal proceedings before a court or tribunal, the court or tribunal
must take into account a provision of the code of practice in determining any
question arising in the proceedings if—

28.1.362AQ.3.a

the question relates to a time when the provision was in force, and

28.1.362AQ.3.b

the provision appears to the court or tribunal to be relevant to the question.

28.1.362AQ.4

OFCOM must take into account a provision of the code of practice in
determining any question arising in connection with the carrying out by them
of a relevant function if—

28.1.362AQ.4.a

the question relates to a time when the provision was in force, and

28.1.362AQ.4.b

the provision appears to OFCOM to be relevant to the question.

28.1.362AQ.5

In this section, “ relevant function ” means a function conferred on OFCOM by
any of the following provisions—

28.1.362AQ.5.a

sections  362AT  to  362AY  (references of disputes to OFCOM), and

28.1.362AQ.5.b

sections  362AZ  to  362AZ5  (enforcement).

############ Issuing a code of practice

28.1.362AR

28.1.362AR.1

Before issuing a code of practice under  section 362AP , OFCOM—

28.1.362AR.1.a

must publish a draft of the code or (as the case may be) a draft of the
revisions of the existing code;

28.1.362AR.1.b

must consult the following about the draft—

28.1.362AR.1.b.i

the Secretary of State;

28.1.362AR.1.b.ii

public service broadcasters;

28.1.362AR.1.b.iii

such persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of regulated
television selection services;

28.1.362AR.1.b.iv

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate;

28.1.362AR.1.c

may make such alterations to the draft as OFCOM consider appropriate following
the consultation.

28.1.362AR.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to revisions of the code of
practice if—

28.1.362AR.2.a

OFCOM give the Secretary of State a draft of the revisions of the existing
code, and

28.1.362AR.2.b

the Secretary of State agrees that it is not necessary for  subsection (1)  to
apply in relation to the revisions.

########### Power to require information

############ Power to require information

28.1.362AS

28.1.362AS.1

OFCOM may by notice (an “information notice”) require a person within
subsection (4)  to provide them with any information that they require for the
purpose of carrying out their functions under this Part.

28.1.362AS.2

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  includes power to require a person
within  subsection (4)  to obtain or generate information.

28.1.362AS.3

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  must be exercised in a way that is
proportionate to the use to which the information is to be put by OFCOM.

28.1.362AS.4

The persons within this subsection are—

28.1.362AS.4.a

a public service broadcaster;

28.1.362AS.4.b

a provider of an internet programme service;

28.1.362AS.4.c

a provider of a television selection service;

28.1.362AS.4.d

a person who provides an ancillary service in relation to an internet
programme service or a television selection service;

28.1.362AS.4.e

a manufacturer of apparatus that is, or in combination with other apparatus
is, internet television equipment;

28.1.362AS.4.f

a person who creates or provides software used in association with such
apparatus;

28.1.362AS.4.g

a person who was within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (f)  at a time to which
the required information relates;

28.1.362AS.4.h

a person who is not within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (g)  but who appears to
OFCOM to have, or to be able to obtain or generate, information required by
them as mentioned in  subsection (1) .

28.1.362AS.5

The information that OFCOM may require under  subsection (1)  includes, in
particular, information that they require for any one or more of the following
purposes—

28.1.362AS.5.a

the purpose of deciding whether to designate an internet programme service for
the purposes of this Part or to revoke such a designation;

28.1.362AS.5.b

the purpose of assessing compliance with  section 362AD (1)  (duty to notify
OFCOM where cease to be associated with a public service broadcaster);

28.1.362AS.5.c

the purpose of preparing a report under  section 362AG  (advice from OFCOM
about the designation of television selection services etc);

28.1.362AS.5.d

the purpose of assessing compliance with  section 362AH  (duty of providers of
television selection services to notify OFCOM);

28.1.362AS.5.e

the purpose of assessing compliance with any duty of a provider of a
designated internet programme service under  section 362AJ  or  362AN  (must-
offer and content of designated internet programme services obligations);

28.1.362AS.5.f

the purpose of assessing compliance with any duty of the BBC under the BBC
Charter and Agreement that is comparable to any duty of a provider of a
designated internet programme service under  section 362AJ  or  362AN ;

28.1.362AS.5.g

the purpose of assessing compliance with any duty of a provider of a regulated
television selection service under  section 362AK  or  362AO  (must-carry and
prominence obligations);

28.1.362AS.5.h

the purpose of preparing or reviewing a code of practice under  section 362AP
(code of practice relating to duties under  section 362AO );

28.1.362AS.5.i

the purpose of OFCOM’s functions under sections  362AT  to  362AY  (dispute
resolution);

28.1.362AS.5.j

the purpose of assessing compliance with any requirements imposed by a
confirmation decision under  section 362AZ1 ;

28.1.362AS.5.k

the purpose of determining the appropriate fee that a provider is required to
pay under  section 362AZ6 ;

28.1.362AS.5.l

the purpose of OFCOM’s monitoring role under  section 362AZ9 ;

28.1.362AS.5.m

the purpose of ascertaining the amount of a person’s or a group of entities’
qualifying worldwide revenue for the purposes of  paragraph 3  or  4  of
Schedule 16A .

28.1.362AS.6

An information notice must—

28.1.362AS.6.a

specify or describe the information to be provided,

28.1.362AS.6.b

specify why OFCOM require the information,

28.1.362AS.6.c

specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided, and

28.1.362AS.6.d

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

28.1.362AS.7

An information notice must specify when the information must be provided which
may be—

28.1.362AS.7.a

on or by a specified date, or

28.1.362AS.7.b

within a specified period.

28.1.362AS.8

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  does not include power to require the
provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications, could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

28.1.362AS.9

A person to whom an information notice is given must provide the information
in accordance with any requirements included in the notice (subject to
subsection (10) ).

28.1.362AS.10

The duty under  subsection (9)  does not require a disclosure of information
if that disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but, in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, that duty is to be taken into
account).

28.1.362AS.11

For the purposes of  subsection (4) (d) , a service is an “ ancillary service
” in relation to an internet programme service or a television selection
service if it facilitates the provision of that service (or part of it),
whether directly or indirectly.

28.1.362AS.12

In this section, a reference to the functions of OFCOM under this Part
includes a reference to their functions under  Schedules 16A  and  16B , so
far as relating to this Part.

28.1.362AS.13

In this section, “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in
the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

########### References of disputes to OFCOM

############ References of disputes to OFCOM

28.1.362AT

28.1.362AT.1

This section applies in the case of a dispute between the provider of a
designated internet programme service and the provider of a regulated
television selection service about—

28.1.362AT.1.a

the arrangements that should be made between them in order to give effect to
the prominence duties that relate to them, or

28.1.362AT.1.b

the operation of arrangements made between them in order to give effect to
those duties.

28.1.362AT.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) —

28.1.362AT.2.a

the prominence duties relating to the provider of a designated internet
programme service are—

28.1.362AT.2.a.i

in the case of a provider other than the BBC, the duties under  section 362AJ
;

28.1.362AT.2.a.ii

in the case of the BBC, any duties of the BBC under the BBC Charter and
Agreement that are comparable to the duties of other providers under  section
362AJ ;

28.1.362AT.2.b

the prominence duties relating to the provider of a regulated television
selection service are the duties under sections  362AK  and  362AO (1) .

28.1.362AT.3

Any one or more of the parties to the dispute may refer it to OFCOM but only
if (and when) there is no realistic prospect of resolving the dispute without
referring it.

28.1.362AT.4

OFCOM may invite any one or more of the parties to the dispute to make a
reference under  subsection (3) .

28.1.362AT.5

OFCOM—

28.1.362AT.5.a

may impose requirements about the manner in which a reference must be made by
publishing a notice setting out those requirements,

28.1.362AT.5.b

may withdraw or modify any requirements that have been imposed by publishing a
further notice, and

28.1.362AT.5.c

in exercising their powers under  paragraph (a)  or  (b) , may make different
provision for different cases.

28.1.362AT.6

OFCOM may publish a notice under  subsection (5)  in such ways as they
consider appropriate for bringing the notice to the attention of those who, in
their opinion, are likely to be affected by it.

############ Action by OFCOM on reference of dispute

28.1.362AU

28.1.362AU.1

This section applies where—

28.1.362AU.1.a

a dispute is referred to OFCOM under  section 362AT (3) , and

28.1.362AU.1.b

any requirements imposed by OFCOM under  section 362AT (5)  are met in
relation to the reference.

28.1.362AU.2

OFCOM must decide whether or not it is appropriate for them to handle the
dispute.

28.1.362AU.3

Subsection (4)  applies where—

28.1.362AU.3.a

the dispute is of the kind described in  section 362AT (1) (a)  (disputes
between the provider of a designated internet programme service and the
provider of a regulated television selection service about the arrangements
that should be made between them for the purposes of their prominence duties),
and

28.1.362AU.3.b

unless the dispute is resolved, it is highly likely that the designated
internet programme service will—

28.1.362AU.3.b.i

not be included in the regulated television selection service, or

28.1.362AU.3.b.ii

not be given the appropriate degree of prominence within it.

28.1.362AU.4

OFCOM must decide that it is appropriate for them to handle the dispute unless
they consider—

28.1.362AU.4.a

that there are alternative means available for resolving the dispute,

28.1.362AU.4.b

that a resolution by those means is likely to result in an outcome that is
consistent with the agreement objectives, and

28.1.362AU.4.c

that a prompt and satisfactory resolution of the dispute is likely if those
alternative means are used.

28.1.362AU.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after OFCOM have decided whether or not it
is appropriate for them to handle the dispute, they must inform each of the
parties to the dispute of—

28.1.362AU.5.a

their decision and the date on which it was made, and

28.1.362AU.5.b

their reasons for it.

28.1.362AU.6

Where OFCOM decide that it is not appropriate for them to handle the dispute,
the dispute may subsequently be referred back to OFCOM by one or more of the
parties if—

28.1.362AU.6.a

the parties have used alternative means for resolving the dispute but it has
not been resolved within a reasonable period of time, or

28.1.362AU.6.b

the parties have not used alternative means for resolving the dispute but
OFCOM consider that there is a satisfactory explanation for that.

############ Interim measures

28.1.362AV

28.1.362AV.1

This section applies where—

28.1.362AV.1.a

OFCOM decide under  section 362AU (2)  whether or not it is appropriate for
them to handle a dispute, or

28.1.362AV.1.b

a dispute is referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) .

28.1.362AV.2

OFCOM may do one or more of the following—

28.1.362AV.2.a

make an interim declaration setting out the rights and obligations of the
parties to the dispute;

28.1.362AV.2.b

give an interim direction fixing the terms or conditions of transactions
between the parties to the dispute;

28.1.362AV.2.c

give an interim direction imposing an obligation on the parties to the
dispute, and enforceable by them, to enter into a transaction between
themselves on the terms and conditions fixed by OFCOM.

28.1.362AV.3

OFCOM must exercise their powers under  subsection (2)  in the way that seems
to them to be most appropriate in the light of the agreement objectives.

28.1.362AV.4

Before exercising their powers under  subsection (2) , OFCOM must—

28.1.362AV.4.a

give the parties to the dispute an opportunity to make representations about
the exercise of those powers, and

28.1.362AV.4.b

consider those representations.

28.1.362AV.5

In other respects, the procedure to be followed by OFCOM in connection with
the exercise of their powers under  subsection (2)  is to be the procedure
that OFCOM consider appropriate.

28.1.362AV.6

In the case of a dispute referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) ,
OFCOM may, in exercising their powers under  subsection (2) , take account of
decisions already made by others in the course of an attempt to resolve that
dispute by alternative means.

28.1.362AV.7

OFCOM must withdraw an interim declaration or an interim direction if
requested to do so by the parties to the dispute.

28.1.362AV.8

OFCOM may withdraw an interim declaration or an interim direction otherwise
than at the request of the parties to the dispute if they consider that it is
appropriate to do so in the light of the agreement objectives.

28.1.362AV.9

An interim declaration or an interim direction binds the parties to the
dispute (unless withdrawn by OFCOM or ceasing to have effect under  section
362AY (4) ).

28.1.362AV.10

In this section—

28.1.362AV.10.a

“ an interim declaration ” means a declaration that has effect until the
resolution of the dispute by OFCOM or by any alternative means (unless
withdrawn by OFCOM or ceasing to have effect under  section 362AY (4) );

28.1.362AV.10.b

“ an interim direction ” means a direction that has effect until the
resolution of the dispute by OFCOM or by any alternative means (unless
withdrawn by OFCOM or ceasing to have effect under  section 362AY (4) ).

############ Procedure for resolving disputes

28.1.362AW

28.1.362AW.1

This section applies where—

28.1.362AW.1.a

OFCOM decide under  section 362AU (2)  that it is appropriate for them to
handle a dispute, or

28.1.362AW.1.b

a dispute is referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) .

28.1.362AW.2

OFCOM must—

28.1.362AW.2.a

consider the dispute, and

28.1.362AW.2.b

make a determination for resolving it.

28.1.362AW.3

The procedure for the consideration and determination of the dispute is to be
the procedure that OFCOM consider appropriate.

28.1.362AW.4

In the case of a dispute referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) ,
that procedure may involve allowing the continuation of a procedure that has
already begun for resolving the dispute by alternative means.

28.1.362AW.5

Unless there are exceptional circumstances, OFCOM must make their
determination before the end of the period of four months beginning with—

28.1.362AW.5.a

where OFCOM decide under  section 362AU (2)  that it is appropriate for them
to handle the dispute, the day on which they make that decision;

28.1.362AW.5.b

where the dispute is referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) , the day
on which it is referred back.

28.1.362AW.6

Where it is practicable for OFCOM to make their determination before the end
of the period of four months referred to in  subsection (5) , they must make
it as soon in that period as is practicable.

28.1.362AW.7

The requirements of subsections  (5)  and  (6)  are subject to  section 362AY
(4) .

28.1.362AW.8

OFCOM must—

28.1.362AW.8.a

send a copy of their determination, together with a full statement of their
reasons for it, to every party to the dispute, and

28.1.362AW.8.b

publish so much of their determination as (having regard, in particular, to
the need to preserve commercial confidentiality) they consider it appropriate
to publish.

28.1.362AW.9

OFCOM may fulfil their duty under  subsection (8) (b)  in such ways as they
consider appropriate for bringing the material that they consider it
appropriate to publish to the attention of members of the public.

############ Resolution of referred disputes

28.1.362AX

28.1.362AX.1

This section applies where OFCOM make a determination for resolving a dispute
under  section 362AW (2) .

28.1.362AX.2

OFCOM may do one or more of the following—

28.1.362AX.2.a

make a declaration setting out the rights and obligations of the parties to
the dispute;

28.1.362AX.2.b

give a direction fixing the terms or conditions of transactions between the
parties to the dispute;

28.1.362AX.2.c

give a direction imposing an obligation on the parties to the dispute, and
enforceable by them, to enter into a transaction between themselves on the
terms and conditions fixed by OFCOM;

28.1.362AX.2.d

for the purpose of giving effect to a determination by OFCOM of the proper
amount of a charge in respect of which amounts have been paid by one of the
parties to the dispute to the other, to give a direction, enforceable by the
party to whom the sums are to be paid, requiring the payment of sums by way of
adjustment of an underpayment or overpayment.

28.1.362AX.3

OFCOM must exercise their powers under  subsection (2)  in the way that they
consider to be the most appropriate for meeting the agreement objectives.

28.1.362AX.4

In the case of a dispute referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) —

28.1.362AX.4.a

OFCOM may, in making their determination, take account of decisions already
made by others in the course of an attempt to resolve that dispute by
alternative means, and

28.1.362AX.4.b

the determination made by OFCOM may include provision ratifying such
decisions.

28.1.362AX.5

Where OFCOM make a determination for resolving a dispute, they may require a
party to the dispute—

28.1.362AX.5.a

to make payments to another party to the dispute in respect of costs and
expenses incurred by that other party in consequence of the reference of the
dispute to OFCOM or in connection with it;

28.1.362AX.5.b

to make payments to OFCOM in respect of costs and expenses incurred by them in
dealing with the dispute.

28.1.362AX.6

OFCOM may determine—

28.1.362AX.6.a

the amount of any costs or expenses required to be paid under  subsection (5)
(a)  or  (b) , and

28.1.362AX.6.b

when those costs or expenses are to be paid.

28.1.362AX.7

OFCOM may not require a party to the dispute to make payments to another party
or to OFCOM under  subsection (5)  unless they have considered—

28.1.362AX.7.a

the conduct of the party before and after the reference to OFCOM (including,
in particular, whether any attempts have been made to resolve the dispute),
and

28.1.362AX.7.b

whether OFCOM have made a decision in the party’s favour in respect of the
whole or a part of the dispute.

28.1.362AX.8

A determination made by OFCOM for resolving a dispute referred to them under
section 362AT (3) , or referred back to them under  section 362AU (6) , binds
the parties to the dispute.

############ Effect of referrals on legal proceedings

28.1.362AY

28.1.362AY.1

This section applies where—

28.1.362AY.1.a

a dispute is referred to OFCOM under  section 362AT (3) , or

28.1.362AY.1.b

a dispute is referred back to OFCOM under  section 362AU (6) .

28.1.362AY.2

The reference, or reference back, does not prevent the person making it, the
other party to the dispute, OFCOM or any other person from bringing, or
continuing, any legal proceedings with respect to any of the matters under
dispute.

28.1.362AY.3

The reference, or reference back, also does not prevent OFCOM from—

28.1.362AY.3.a

giving a notification in respect of something that they have reasonable
grounds for believing to be a contravention of an obligation imposed by or
under an enactment;

28.1.362AY.3.b

exercising any of their powers under any enactment in relation to a
contravention of an obligation imposed by or under an enactment;

28.1.362AY.3.c

taking any other step in preparation for, or with a view to, doing anything
mentioned in the preceding paragraphs.

28.1.362AY.4

If, in any legal proceedings with respect to a matter to which a dispute
relates, the court orders the handling of the dispute by OFCOM to be stayed or
sisted—

28.1.362AY.4.a

OFCOM are required to make a determination for resolving the dispute only if
the stay or sist is lifted or expires,

28.1.362AY.4.b

the period during which the stay or sist is in force must be disregarded in
determining the period within which OFCOM are required to make a
determination, and

28.1.362AY.4.c

any interim declaration or interim direction made or given by OFCOM under
section 362AV (2)  ceases to have effect.

28.1.362AY.5

In this section, “ legal proceedings ” means civil or criminal proceedings in
or before a court.

28.1.362AY.6

Subsection (2)  is subject to—

28.1.362AY.6.a

section 362AX (8) , and

28.1.362AY.6.b

any agreement to the contrary binding the parties in dispute.

########### Enforcement

############ Provisional notices of contravention

28.1.362AZ

28.1.362AZ.1

OFCOM may give a notice under this section (a “provisional notice of
contravention”) to a person if they consider that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that the person has failed, or is failing, to comply with—

28.1.362AZ.1.a

any duty under  section 362AD ,  362AJ  or  362AN  (duties of providers of
designated internet programme services under this Part), or

28.1.362AZ.1.b

any duty under  section 362AH ,  362AK  or  362AO  (duties of providers of
regulated television selection services under this Part).

28.1.362AZ.2

OFCOM may also give a provisional notice of contravention to a person to whom
an information notice has been given if they consider that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that the person has failed, or is failing, to
comply with the duty under  section 362AS (9) .

28.1.362AZ.3

A provisional notice of contravention must—

28.1.362AZ.3.a

specify the duty as regards which (in OFCOM’s opinion) there are reasonable
grounds for believing the person has failed, or is failing, to comply, and

28.1.362AZ.3.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for that opinion.

28.1.362AZ.4

A provisional notice of contravention may also specify steps that OFCOM
consider the person needs to take in order to—

28.1.362AZ.4.a

comply with the duty, or

28.1.362AZ.4.b

remedy the failure to comply with it.

28.1.362AZ.5

A provisional notice of contravention may also state that OFCOM propose to
impose a penalty on the person and, in such a case, the notice must—

28.1.362AZ.5.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for proposing to impose the penalty,

28.1.362AZ.5.b

indicate the amount in sterling of the penalty that is being proposed, and

28.1.362AZ.5.c

give OFCOM’s reasons for proposing a penalty of that amount, including any
aggravating or mitigating factors that OFCOM propose to take into account.

28.1.362AZ.6

A provisional notice of contravention must—

28.1.362AZ.6.a

state that the person may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting
evidence) about the matters contained in the notice, and

28.1.362AZ.6.b

specify the period within which such representations may be made.

28.1.362AZ.7

A provisional notice of contravention may be given in respect of a failure by
the same person to comply with more than one duty and, in such a case, the
notice may include a proposal to impose a single penalty in respect of some or
all of those duties (as an alternative to separate penalties).

28.1.362AZ.8

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given in respect of a
continuing failure to comply with a duty, the notice—

28.1.362AZ.8.a

may be given in respect of any period during which the failure has continued,

28.1.362AZ.8.b

must specify that period, and

28.1.362AZ.8.c

may include a proposal to impose no more than one penalty in respect of that
period.

28.1.362AZ.9

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given to a person in respect of
a failure to comply with a duty, a further provisional notice of contravention
in respect of a failure to comply with that same duty may be given to that
person only—

28.1.362AZ.9.a

in respect of a separate instance of the failure that occurs after the first
notice is given,

28.1.362AZ.9.b

where a period is specified in the first notice in accordance with  subsection
(8) (b) , in respect of the continuation of the failure after the end of that
period, or

28.1.362AZ.9.c

if the notice is withdrawn without a confirmation decision under  section
362AZ1  having been given to the person in respect of that failure.

28.1.362AZ.10

OFCOM may give a provisional notice of contravention to—

28.1.362AZ.10.a

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a regulated television
selection service, or

28.1.362AZ.10.b

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a designated internet
programme service,

if that person was a provider of a regulated television selection service or
(as the case may be) a designated internet programme service at the time of
the failure to which the notice relates.

############ Confirmation decisions: general

28.1.362AZ1

28.1.362AZ1.1

This section applies where—

28.1.362AZ1.1.a

OFCOM have given a provisional notice of contravention to a person in relation
to a failure to comply with a duty or duties, and

28.1.362AZ1.1.b

the period allowed for representations has expired.

28.1.362AZ1.2

After considering any representations that have been made (and any supporting
evidence), OFCOM must decide whether or not to give the person a further
notice under this section (a “confirmation decision”).

28.1.362AZ1.3

OFCOM may decide to give a person a confirmation decision only if they are
satisfied that the person has failed, or has been failing, to comply with the
notified duty or (as the case may be) one or more of the notified duties.

28.1.362AZ1.4

For the purposes of this section and sections  362AZ2  and  362AZ3 , a “
notified duty ” means a duty specified in the provisional notice of
contravention.

28.1.362AZ1.5

If OFCOM decide not to give a person a confirmation decision (whether because
they are not satisfied as described in  subsection (3)  or for any other
reason), they must inform the person of that fact.

28.1.362AZ1.6

A confirmation decision must—

28.1.362AZ1.6.a

state that OFCOM are satisfied that the person has failed, or has been
failing, to comply with one or more notified duties, and

28.1.362AZ1.6.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for being satisfied as described in  paragraph (a) .

28.1.362AZ1.7

A confirmation decision may require the person to take such steps as OFCOM
consider appropriate for either or both of the following purposes—

28.1.362AZ1.7.a

complying with a notified duty or duties;

28.1.362AZ1.7.b

remedying the failure to comply with that duty or those duties.

28.1.362AZ1.8

Where a provisional notice of contravention stated that OFCOM proposed to
impose a penalty in relation to a notified duty or (by virtue of  section
362AZ (7) ) in relation to notified duties, a confirmation decision may
require the person to pay a penalty, of an amount in sterling determined by
OFCOM, in relation to that duty or (as the case may be) those duties.

28.1.362AZ1.9

The amount determined by OFCOM under  subsection (8)  may be greater than the
amount indicated in the provisional notice of contravention in accordance with
section 362AZ (5) (b) .

28.1.362AZ1.10

OFCOM may give a confirmation decision to—

28.1.362AZ1.10.a

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a regulated television
selection service, or

28.1.362AZ1.10.b

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a designated internet
programme service,

if that person was a provider of a regulated television selection service or
(as the case may be) a designated internet programme service at the time of
the failure to which the notice relates.

############ Confirmation decisions: steps

28.1.362AZ2

28.1.362AZ2.1

This section applies where a confirmation decision requires the person to whom
it is given to take steps as provided for by  section 362AZ1 (7) .

28.1.362AZ2.2

The notice must—

28.1.362AZ2.2.a

specify the steps that are required and the notified duty or duties to which
each relates,

28.1.362AZ2.2.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for requiring those steps to be taken,

28.1.362AZ2.2.c

specify a reasonable period within which each of the steps specified in the
notice must be taken, and

28.1.362AZ2.2.d

contain information about the consequences of not taking the steps (including
information about further kinds of enforcement action that it would be open to
OFCOM to take).

28.1.362AZ2.3

Where a confirmation decision requires a person to take steps, the person to
whom the notice is given has a duty to take those steps.

28.1.362AZ2.4

The duty under  subsection (3)  is enforceable in civil proceedings by OFCOM—

28.1.362AZ2.4.a

for an injunction;

28.1.362AZ2.4.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988;

28.1.362AZ2.4.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

############ Confirmation decisions: penalties

28.1.362AZ3

28.1.362AZ3.1

This section applies where a confirmation decision imposes one or more
penalties (see  section 362AZ1 (8) ).

28.1.362AZ3.2

In relation to each penalty imposed, the notice must—

28.1.362AZ3.2.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

28.1.362AZ3.2.b

specify each notified duty to which the penalty relates,

28.1.362AZ3.2.c

give OFCOM’s reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating
or mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

28.1.362AZ3.2.d

specify a reasonable period within which the penalty must be paid, and

28.1.362AZ3.2.e

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the kinds of enforcement action that it would be
open to OFCOM to take).

28.1.362AZ3.3

The period specified under  subsection (2) (d)  for the payment of a penalty
must be at least 28 days beginning with the day on which the confirmation
decision is given.

28.1.362AZ3.4

Schedule 16A  contains further provision about the imposition of a penalty by
a confirmation decision.

############ Penalty for failure to comply with confirmation decisions

28.1.362AZ4

28.1.362AZ4.1

This section applies where—

28.1.362AZ4.1.a

OFCOM have given a confirmation decision to a person,

28.1.362AZ4.1.b

the notice includes requirements to take steps (as provided for by  section
362AZ1 (7) ), and

28.1.362AZ4.1.c

OFCOM are satisfied that the person has failed to comply with one or more of
those requirements.

28.1.362AZ4.2

OFCOM may give the person a penalty notice.

28.1.362AZ4.3

A “penalty notice” is a notice requiring a person to pay to OFCOM a penalty of
an amount in sterling determined by OFCOM.

28.1.362AZ4.4

Before giving the person a penalty notice, OFCOM must—

28.1.362AZ4.4.a

notify the person that they propose to give a penalty notice in respect of the
failure to comply with the confirmation decision, specifying the reasons for
their proposal and indicating the amount of the proposed penalty, and

28.1.362AZ4.4.b

give the person an opportunity to make representations to OFCOM (with any
supporting evidence) about their proposal.

28.1.362AZ4.5

A penalty notice must—

28.1.362AZ4.5.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

28.1.362AZ4.5.b

state the amount of the penalty,

28.1.362AZ4.5.c

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

28.1.362AZ4.5.d

specify the period within which the penalty must be paid, and

28.1.362AZ4.5.e

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

28.1.362AZ4.6

The period specified under  subsection (5) (d)  must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day on which the penalty notice is given.

28.1.362AZ4.7

Schedule 16A  contains further provision about the imposition of a penalty by
a penalty notice.

############ Enforcement: guidance

28.1.362AZ5

28.1.362AZ5.1

OFCOM must prepare and publish guidance about the exercise of their powers
under sections  362AZ  to  362AZ4  and  Schedule 16B  (so far as relating to
this Part).

28.1.362AZ5.2

The guidance must include the factors that OFCOM will take into account in
deciding whether to exercise any of those powers.

28.1.362AZ5.3

OFCOM may revise or replace any guidance published under this section and,
where they do so, must publish the revised or replacement guidance.

28.1.362AZ5.4

Before preparing guidance under this section (or revising or replacing it),
OFCOM must consult—

28.1.362AZ5.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

28.1.362AZ5.4.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

28.1.362AZ5.5

Guidelines prepared by OFCOM under section 392 (amount of penalties) may, so
far as relating to penalties imposed by a confirmation decision under  section
362AZ1  or a penalty notice under section  362AZ4 , be included in the same
document as guidance under this section.

28.1.362AZ5.6

In exercising or deciding whether to exercise any of their powers under
sections  362AZ  to  362AZ4  and  Schedule 16B  (so far as relating to this
Part), OFCOM must have regard to any guidance for the time being published
under this section.

########### Supplemental provisions of Part 3A

############ Fees

28.1.362AZ6

28.1.362AZ6.1

OFCOM may require a person other than the BBC or S4C who is—

28.1.362AZ6.1.a

a provider of a designated internet programme service, or

28.1.362AZ6.1.b

a provider of a regulated television selection service,

to pay to OFCOM a fee of an amount determined by OFCOM.

28.1.362AZ6.2

The amount of a fee required under  subsection (1)  must be determined by
OFCOM in accordance with a statement of principles prepared and published by
them for the purpose of this section.

28.1.362AZ6.3

Those principles must be such as appear to OFCOM to be likely to secure the
following objectives—

28.1.362AZ6.3.a

that, on a year by year basis, the aggregate amount of the fees payable to
OFCOM under  subsection (1)  is sufficient to meet, but does not exceed, the
annual cost to OFCOM of carrying out their functions under this Part less an
appropriate amount to take into account costs that will be met by fees
payable—

28.1.362AZ6.3.a.i

by the BBC under section 198(4), or

28.1.362AZ6.3.a.ii

by S4C under section 207(6);

28.1.362AZ6.3.b

that the relationship between the aggregate amount of the fees and the cost to
OFCOM of carrying out the functions is transparent;

28.1.362AZ6.3.c

that any fee required is justifiable and proportionate having regard to the
circumstances of the person required to pay it.

28.1.362AZ6.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each financial year, OFCOM
must publish a statement of accounts setting out in respect of that year—

28.1.362AZ6.4.a

the aggregate amount of the fees payable under  subsection (1)  for that year
that have been received by OFCOM,

28.1.362AZ6.4.b

the aggregate amount of the fees payable under  subsection (1)  for that year
that remain outstanding and are likely to be paid or recovered, and

28.1.362AZ6.4.c

the costs to them of carrying out their functions under this Part less an
appropriate amount to take into account costs that have been or are to be met
by fees payable—

28.1.362AZ6.4.c.i

by the BBC under section 198(4), or

28.1.362AZ6.4.c.ii

by S4C under section 207(6).

28.1.362AZ6.5

Any deficit or surplus shown (after applying this subsection for all previous
years) by the statement of accounts is to be—

28.1.362AZ6.5.a

carried forward, and

28.1.362AZ6.5.b

taken into account in determining what is required to meet the objective
described in  subsection (3) (a)  in relation to the following year.

28.1.362AZ6.6

OFCOM may repay a person some or all of a fee paid under  subsection (1)  if—

28.1.362AZ6.6.a

in the case of a fee paid by the provider of a designated internet programme
service, OFCOM revoke the designation of an internet programme service
provided by that person under  section 362AB  at some time during the period
to which the fee relates;

28.1.362AZ6.6.b

in the case of a fee paid by the provider of a regulated television selection
service—

28.1.362AZ6.6.b.i

the Secretary of State has revoked the designation of a regulated television
selection service provided by that person at some time during the period to
which the fee relates, or

28.1.362AZ6.6.b.ii

the person gives OFCOM a notice under  section 362AH (2)  or  (3)  in
accordance with  section 362AH (4)  at some time during the period to which
the fee relates.

28.1.362AZ6.7

For the purposes of this section, OFCOM’s costs of carrying out their
functions under this Part during a financial year include their costs of
preparing to carry out those functions during that year.

28.1.362AZ6.8

OFCOM—

28.1.362AZ6.8.a

may revise a statement of principles published by them, and

28.1.362AZ6.8.b

where they do so, must publish the statement as revised.

28.1.362AZ6.9

Before publishing a statement of principles or a revision of it, OFCOM must
consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

28.1.362AZ6.10

In this section, a reference to the functions of OFCOM under this Part
includes a reference to their functions under  Schedules 16A  and  16B , so
far as relating to this Part.

28.1.362AZ6.11

In this section, “ financial year ” means a period of 12 months ending on 31
March.

############ Non-payment of fee

28.1.362AZ7

28.1.362AZ7.1

This section applies if—

28.1.362AZ7.1.a

the provider of a designated internet programme service or regulated
television selection service is liable to pay a fee to OFCOM under  section
362AZ6 , and

28.1.362AZ7.1.b

in OFCOM’s opinion, the provider has not paid the full amount of the fee that
the provider is liable to pay.

28.1.362AZ7.2

OFCOM may give the provider a notice under this subsection specifying—

28.1.362AZ7.2.a

the outstanding amount of the fee that OFCOM consider the provider is due to
pay to them under  section 362AZ6 , and

28.1.362AZ7.2.b

the period within which the provider must pay it.

28.1.362AZ7.3

A notice under  subsection (2) —

28.1.362AZ7.3.a

may relate to fees required on different occasions;

28.1.362AZ7.3.b

may also state that OFCOM propose to impose a penalty on the provider.

28.1.362AZ7.4

The provider may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting evidence)
about the matters contained in the notice.

28.1.362AZ7.5

Subsection (6)  applies if—

28.1.362AZ7.5.a

the notice under  subsection (2)  stated that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty,

28.1.362AZ7.5.b

the period allowed for representations has expired, and

28.1.362AZ7.5.c

OFCOM are satisfied that an amount of the fee or fees is still due to them.

28.1.362AZ7.6

OFCOM may give the provider a penalty notice under this subsection requiring
the provider to pay to OFCOM a penalty of an amount in sterling determined by
OFCOM.

28.1.362AZ7.7

The penalty may consist of any of the following—

28.1.362AZ7.7.a

a single amount;

28.1.362AZ7.7.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate;

28.1.362AZ7.7.c

a combination of a single amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

28.1.362AZ7.8

The penalty notice may impose a penalty of a different kind, of a greater
amount or (in the case of a penalty calculated by reference to a daily rate)
payable over a longer period than that proposed in the notice about the
proposed penalty.

28.1.362AZ7.9

See  section 362AZ8  for information which must be included in notices under
this section.

28.1.362AZ7.10

Nothing in this section affects OFCOM’s power to bring proceedings (whether
before or after the imposition of a penalty by a notice under  subsection (6)
) for the recovery of the whole or part of an amount due to OFCOM under
section 362AZ6 .

28.1.362AZ7.11

But OFCOM may not bring such proceedings unless a provider has first been
given a notice under  subsection (2)  specifying the amount due to OFCOM.

############ Information to be included in a notice under 

28.1.362AZ8

28.1.362AZ8.1

A notice under  section 362AZ7 (2)  stating that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty must—

28.1.362AZ8.1.a

state the reasons why OFCOM propose to impose the penalty,

28.1.362AZ8.1.b

state whether OFCOM propose that the penalty should consist of a single
amount, an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or a combination of
the two,

28.1.362AZ8.1.c

indicate the amount of the proposed penalty, including (in relation to an
amount calculated by reference to a daily rate) the daily rate and how the
penalty would be calculated,

28.1.362AZ8.1.d

in relation to an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, specify or
describe the period for which OFCOM propose that the amount should be payable,

28.1.362AZ8.1.e

state the reasons for proposing a penalty of that amount, including any
aggravating or mitigating factors that OFCOM propose to take into account, and

28.1.362AZ8.1.f

specify the period within which representations in relation to the proposed
penalty may be made.

28.1.362AZ8.2

A penalty notice under  section 362AZ7 (6)  must—

28.1.362AZ8.2.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

28.1.362AZ8.2.b

state whether the penalty consists of a single amount, an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, or a combination of the two, and how it is
calculated,

28.1.362AZ8.2.c

in relation to a single amount, state that amount,

28.1.362AZ8.2.d

in relation to an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, state the
daily rate,

28.1.362AZ8.2.e

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

28.1.362AZ8.2.f

specify a reasonable period within which the penalty must be paid, and

28.1.362AZ8.2.g

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

28.1.362AZ8.3

A penalty notice under  section 362AZ7 (6)  must also specify the amount of
the fee that is (in OFCOM’s opinion) due to be paid to OFCOM.

28.1.362AZ8.4

The period specified under  subsection (2) (f)  for the payment of a single
amount must be at least 28 days beginning with the day on which the penalty
notice is given.

28.1.362AZ8.5

Subsection (6)  applies in relation to a penalty notice under  section 362AZ7
(6)  that includes a requirement to pay an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

28.1.362AZ8.6

Such a notice must—

28.1.362AZ8.6.a

state the date from which the amount begins to be payable, which must not be
earlier than the day after the day on which the notice is given;

28.1.362AZ8.6.b

provide for the amount to continue to be payable at the daily rate until—

28.1.362AZ8.6.b.i

the date on which the full amount of the fee (as specified in the penalty
notice) has been paid to OFCOM, or

28.1.362AZ8.6.b.ii

an earlier date specified in the penalty notice.

28.1.362AZ8.7

Schedule 16A  contains further provision about the imposition of a penalty by
a penalty notice under  section 362AZ7 (6) .

############ Monitoring role for OFCOM

28.1.362AZ9

OFCOM have the function of obtaining, compiling and keeping under review
information about matters which may be relevant to—

28.1.362AZ9.a

designating or revoking the designation of an internet programme service under
section 362AA  or  362AB ;

28.1.362AZ9.b

designating or revoking the designation of a television selection service or
specifying or ceasing to specify a description of television selection
services under  section 362AF ;

28.1.362AZ9.c

deciding whether to take enforcement action under this Part and Schedule 16B
(so far as relating to this Part).

############ Notices

28.1.362AZ10

28.1.362AZ10.1

This section applies in relation to a notice that may or must be given by
OFCOM to a person under any provision of this Part or Schedule 16B (so far as
relating to this Part).

28.1.362AZ10.2

OFCOM may give a notice to a person by—

28.1.362AZ10.2.a

delivering it by hand to the person,

28.1.362AZ10.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

28.1.362AZ10.2.c

sending it by post to the person at that address, or

28.1.362AZ10.2.d

sending it by email to that person’s email address.

28.1.362AZ10.3

A notice to a body corporate may be given to any officer of that body.

28.1.362AZ10.4

A notice to a partnership may be given to any partner or to a person who has
the control or management of the partnership business.

28.1.362AZ10.5

A notice to an entity that is not a legal person under the law under which it
is formed (other than a partnership) may be given to any member of the
governing body of the entity.

28.1.362AZ10.6

In the case of a notice given to a person who is a provider of a regulated
television selection service, the person’s proper address for the purposes of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (2), and section 7 of the Interpretation
Act 1978 in its application to those paragraphs, is any address (within or
outside the United Kingdom) at which OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds,
that the notice will come to the attention of the person or (where that person
is an entity) any director or other officer of that entity.

28.1.362AZ10.7

In the case of a notice given to a person other than a provider of a regulated
television selection service, a person’s proper address for the purposes of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (2), and section 7 of the Interpretation
Act 1978 in its application to those paragraphs, is—

28.1.362AZ10.7.a

in the case of an entity, the address of the entity’s registered or principal
office;

28.1.362AZ10.7.b

in any other case, the person’s last known address.

28.1.362AZ10.8

In the case of an entity registered or carrying on business outside the United
Kingdom, or with offices outside the United Kingdom, the reference in
subsection (7)  to its principal office includes—

28.1.362AZ10.8.a

its principal office in the United Kingdom, or

28.1.362AZ10.8.b

if the entity has no office in the United Kingdom, any place in the United
Kingdom at which OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will
come to the attention of any director or other officer of that entity.

28.1.362AZ10.9

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (d) , a person’s email address is—

28.1.362AZ10.9.a

any email address published for the time being by that person as an address
for contacting that person, or

28.1.362AZ10.9.b

if there is no such published address, any email address by means of which
OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will come to the
attention of that person or (where that person is an entity) any director or
other officer of that entity.

28.1.362AZ10.10

A notice sent by email is treated as given 48 hours after it was sent, unless
the contrary is proved.

28.1.362AZ10.11

In this section—

      “ director ” includes any person occupying the position of a director,
by whatever name called;           “ officer ”, in relation to an entity,
includes a director, a manager, a partner, an associate, a secretary or, where
the affairs of the entity are managed by its members, a member.

############ Application of Part 3A

28.1.362AZ11

28.1.362AZ11.1

A duty imposed on a provider of a television selection service by or under
this Part applies in relation to that service only so far as it is made
available for use by members of the public in the United Kingdom.

28.1.362AZ11.2

References in this Part to a television selection service include such a
service provided from outside the United Kingdom (as well as such a service
provided from within the United Kingdom).

28.1.362AZ11.3

References in this Part to an internet programme service include such a
service provided from outside the United Kingdom (as well as such a service
provided from within the United Kingdom).

28.1.362AZ11.4

The power to require the provision of information by an information notice
includes power to require the provision of information held outside the United
Kingdom.

28.1.362AZ11.5

Section  362AZ2 (4)  (requirements enforceable in civil proceedings against a
person) applies whether or not the person is in the United Kingdom.

############ Interpretation of Part 3A

28.1.362AZ12

28.1.362AZ12.1

In this Part—

      “ the agreement objectives ” has the meaning given by  section 362AM ;
“ BBC company ”, “ C4 company ” and “ S4C company ” have the same meaning as
in Part 3 (see section 362);           “ designated internet programme service
” has the meaning given by  section 362AA ;           “ entity ” means a body
or association of persons or an organisation, regardless of whether the body,
association or organisation is—         formed under the law of any part of
the United Kingdom or of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, or
a legal person under the law under which it is formed;                 “
information notice ” has the meaning given by  section 362AS ;           “
internet programme service ” has the meaning given by  section 362AA ;
“ licensed public service channel ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 362);           “ listed channel ” has the meaning given by  section
362AM ;           “ programme ” means such programme as is described in
section 368ZA;           “ provision ”—         in relation to an internet
programme service, is to be construed in accordance with  subsection (2) ;
in relation to a television selection service, is to be construed in
accordance with  section 362AE (5) ;                 “ public service
broadcaster ” has the meaning given by section 264;           “ public service
remit ” has the meaning given by  section 362AA ;           “ public service
remit content ” has the meaning given by  section 362AA ;           “
regulated television selection service ” has the meaning given by  section
362AF ;           “ television selection service ” has the meaning given by
section 362AE .

28.1.362AZ12.2

The person, and the only person, who is to be treated for the purposes of this
Part as providing an internet programme service is the person who has general
control of the service.

28.1.362AZ12.3

In the case of an internet programme service where the programmes provided to
a user of the service are contained in a single on-demand programme service,
the person with general control of the service is the person who has editorial
responsibility for the on-demand programme service (see section 368A(4)).

28.1.362AZ12.4

In the case of any other internet programme service, the person with general
control of the service is the person who has general control over which—

28.1.362AZ12.4.a

on-demand programme services,

28.1.362AZ12.4.b

non-UK on-demand programme services, and

28.1.362AZ12.4.c

services that fall within  section 362AA (10) (c) ,

are included in the service.

28.1.362AZ12.5

For the purposes of this Part—

28.1.362AZ12.5.a

the provision of an internet programme service by the BBC does not include its
provision by a BBC company;

28.1.362AZ12.5.b

the provision of an internet programme service by C4C does not include its
provision by a C4 company;

28.1.362AZ12.5.c

the provision of an internet programme service by S4C does not include its
provision by an S4C company;

and, accordingly, control that is or is capable of being exercised by the BBC,
C4C or S4C over decisions by a BBC company, C4 company or S4C company about
what is to be comprised in a service is to be disregarded for the purposes of
determining who has general control of the service.

28.1.362AZ12.6

For the purposes of this Part, a person (“ P ”) is associated with a public
service broadcaster if, and only if—

28.1.362AZ12.6.a

P is a body corporate which is controlled by the public service broadcaster;
or

28.1.362AZ12.6.b

where the public service broadcaster is the provider of a Channel 3 service or
Channel 5, P and the public service broadcaster are bodies corporate which are
both controlled by the same person.

28.1.362AZ12.7

In  subsection (6)  “ controlled ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of
Schedule 2 to the 1990 Act.

28.1.362AZ12.8

A reference in this Part to access, in relation to a programme provided by an
internet programme service, is a reference to the opportunity of viewing in an
intelligible form a programme so provided.

28.1.362AZ12.9

For the purposes of this Part, a reference to an internet programme service
being included in a television selection service is a reference to being one
of the internet programme services that are, or whose programmes are,
available for selection and access by means of the television selection
service.

28.1.362AZ12.10

The services that are to be taken for the purposes of this Part to be
available for use by members of the public include any service which—

28.1.362AZ12.10.a

is made available for use only by persons who subscribe to the service
(whether for a period or in relation to a particular occasion) or who
otherwise request its provision, but

28.1.362AZ12.10.b

is a service the facility of subscribing to which, or of otherwise requesting
its provision, is offered or made available to members of the public.

28.2

Schedule 3  contains further amendments relating to prominence on television
selection services.

### Public service broadcasters

#### C4C

##### Sustainability duty of C4C

29

29.1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended as follows.

29.2

After section 23 insert—

########### Sustainability duty of Corporation

29.2.23A

29.2.23A.1

The Corporation must carry on their activities in the way that they have
reasonable grounds to consider would be most likely to enable the Corporation,
over the long term—

29.2.23A.1.a

to maintain or increase the amount of activity that is done in pursuance of
their primary functions, and

29.2.23A.1.b

to be securely in a position to meet costs incurred in the carrying out of
their primary functions.

29.2.23A.2

In this section, “ primary functions ” has the same meaning as in section
199(1) of the Communications Act 2003.

29.3

In Schedule 3 (the Channel Four Television Corporation: supplementary
provisions), in paragraph 13 (annual reports), after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

29.3.1A

The report must include a report on the discharge by the Corporation of their
duty under  section 23A  (sustainability duty of Corporation).

##### C4C’s duties in relation to commissioning programmes

30

30.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

30.2

After section 198A insert—

########### C4C’s duties in relation to commissioning programmes

30.2.198AA

30.2.198AA.1

C4C must take steps to enable competition for commissions from C4C to make
programmes, other than advertisements, for inclusion in services provided by
C4C that fall within  subsection (2) .

30.2.198AA.2

A service falls within this subsection if it is—

30.2.198AA.2.a

a television broadcasting service,

30.2.198AA.2.b

a television licensable content service,

30.2.198AA.2.c

a digital television programme service,

30.2.198AA.2.d

an on-demand programme service that is or forms part of a designated internet
programme service, or

30.2.198AA.2.e

a non-UK on-demand programme service that is or forms part of a designated
internet programme service.

30.2.198AA.3

C4C must put in place and adhere to procedures that facilitate fair
competition for such commissions, including procedures for referring disputes
with C4C to mediation.

30.2.198AA.4

In this section, “ designated internet programme service ” has the same
meaning as in Part 3A (see  section 362AZ12 ).

30.3

In section 198B (statement of media content policy)—

30.3.a

in the heading—

30.3.a.i

for “Statement” substitute  “Statements” ;

30.3.a.ii

at the end insert  “and commissioning policy” ;

30.3.b

after subsection (1) insert—

30.3.b.1A

C4C must prepare a statement of commissioning policy at the same time as they
prepare a statement of media content policy.

;

30.3.c

in subsection (2), after “policy” insert  “or commissioning policy” ;

30.3.d

after subsection (3) insert—

30.3.d.3A

A statement of commissioning policy must—

30.3.d.3A.a

set out C4C’s proposals for securing that, during the following year, they
will discharge their duties under section  198AA , and

30.3.d.3A.b

include a report on their performance in carrying out the proposals contained
in the previous statement.

;

30.3.e

in subsection (4), for “the statement” substitute  “a statement of media
content policy or commissioning policy” ;

30.3.f

in subsection (5), after “policy” insert  “or commissioning policy” .

30.4

In section 198C (OFCOM reports on C4C’s media content duties)—

30.4.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “and commissioning duties” ;

30.4.b

in subsection (1), in paragraph (a), for “section 198A” substitute  “sections
198A and  198AA ” .

30.5

In section 198D (directions in relation to C4C’s media content duties)—

30.5.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “and commissioning duties” ;

30.5.b

in subsection (1), in paragraph (a)—

30.5.b.i

after “198A” insert  “,  198AA ” ;

30.5.b.ii

for “198B(1), (3)” substitute  “198B(1), (1A), (3), (3A)” ;

30.5.c

in subsection (2)(a), after “policy” insert  “or (as the case may be)
commissioning policy” ;

30.5.d

in subsection (3)(a), after “policy” insert  “or (as the case may be)
commissioning policy” .

30.6

In section 271A (remedying failure by C4C to perform media content duties)—

30.6.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “198A” insert  “or  198AA ” ;

30.6.b

in subsection (2), after “198A” insert  “or  198AA ” .

##### Involvement of C4C in programme-making

31

31.1

In the Communications Act 2003, omit section 295 (which restricts C4C’s
involvement in programme-making).

31.2

Subsections  (3)  and  (4)  apply if, after the coming into force of
subsection (1) , C4C or a body corporate controlled by C4C engage in the
making of one or more programmes with a view to their being broadcast on
Channel 4.

31.3

In carrying out a review under section 264 of the Communications Act 2003 in
relation to the relevant report period, OFCOM must consider whether and to
what extent the making of programmes by C4C or a body corporate controlled by
C4C with a view to their being broadcast on Channel 4 has affected the
fulfilment of the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom.

31.4

The report on that review must set out the findings of OFCOM on their
consideration of the matter mentioned in  subsection (3)  and any conclusions
that they have arrived at in relation to those findings.

31.5

For the purposes of this section—

31.5.a

the relevant report period is the first report period to end on or after the
relevant day, and

31.5.b

the relevant day is the third anniversary of the first day on which, following
the coming into force of  subsection (1) , C4C or a body corporate controlled
by C4C engages in the making of a programme with a view to its being broadcast
on Channel 4.

31.6

In this section—

      “ broadcast ” has the same meaning as in the Communications Act 2003;
“ C4C ” means the Channel Four Television Corporation;           “ Channel 4 ”
has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Broadcasting Act 1990;           “
controlled ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Broadcasting Act 1990;
“ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications;           “ programme ” means a
television programme (within the meaning of the Communications Act 2003) other
than an advertisement;           “ the public service remit for television in
the United Kingdom ” has the meaning given by section 264 of the
Communications Act 2003;           “ report period ” means a period selected
by OFCOM for the purposes of section 264(1)(b) of the Communications Act 2003.

#### S4C

##### S4C’s powers and public service remit

32

32.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended in accordance with  subsections (2)
and  (3) .

32.2

For sections 204 to 206 (S4C’s functions and main powers), substitute—

########### S4C’s principal powers and public service remit

32.2.204A

32.2.204A.1

S4C may make available any audiovisual content.

32.2.204A.2

S4C’s public service remit is to make available a broad range of high quality
and diverse audiovisual content—

32.2.204A.2.a

a substantial proportion of which is in Welsh,

32.2.204A.2.b

which is all capable of being taken into account for the purpose of
determining the extent to which the public service remit for television in the
United Kingdom is fulfilled (see section 264(7) to (8C)), and

32.2.204A.2.c

which, considered as a whole, constitutes an adequate contribution to the
fulfilment of that remit.

32.2.204A.3

S4C must exercise the power in subsection  (1)  to fulfil its public service
remit.

32.2.204A.4

S4C may do anything it considers appropriate in association with anything it
does in exercise of the power in subsection  (1) .

32.2.204A.5

In this section “ audiovisual content ” has the same meaning as in section
264.

32.2.204A.6

Subsection  (13)  of section 264 (interpretation of “made available”) applies
for the purposes of this section as it applies for the purposes of that
section.

########### Restrictions on S4C’s powers

32.2.204B

32.2.204B.1

S4C must obtain the Secretary of State’s approval in writing before (whether
under section  204A  or otherwise)—

32.2.204B.1.a

providing any television programme services;

32.2.204B.1.b

doing anything for a charge or with a view to making a profit.

32.2.204B.2

S4C must ensure that an S4C company obtains the Secretary of State’s approval
in writing before the company does anything for a charge or with a view to
making a profit.

32.2.204B.3

An approval under this section may be—

32.2.204B.3.a

a general approval in relation to a description of activities, or

32.2.204B.3.b

a specific approval in relation to particular activities.

32.2.204B.4

For the purposes of this section, the carrying on of the following activities
is treated as approved by the Secretary of State (so far as approval under
this section would otherwise be required)—

32.2.204B.4.a

the provision of S4C Digital,

32.2.204B.4.b

each activity whose carrying on is approved under section 205 or 206 of this
Act (S4C’s other activities) immediately before this section comes into force,
and

32.2.204B.4.c

each activity which is being carried on by S4C or an S4C company immediately
before this section comes into force.

32.2.204B.5

S4C may not provide a service that would fall to be regulated under section
245 (independent radio services) if provided by an S4C company.

########### Publication of approvals under section 204B

32.2.204C

32.2.204C.1

The Secretary of State must publish any approval under section  204B , subject
to  subsection (2) .

32.2.204C.2

The Secretary of State must exclude from publication any matters which appear
to the Secretary of State to be matters whose publication would or might
seriously and prejudicially affect the interests of any person.

32.2.204C.3

This section does not apply in relation to activities treated under  section
204B (4)  as approved under that section.

32.3

In section 207 (S4C: charging and borrowing etc), omit subsections (1) and
(2).

32.4

In Schedule 6 to the Broadcasting Act 1990 (S4C: supplementary provisions), in
paragraph 1, for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

32.4.3

In carrying out its functions S4C may carry on activities in any way whatever,
including—

32.4.3.a

through or with other persons;

32.4.3.b

anywhere in the United Kingdom or elsewhere;

32.4.3.c

with a view to making a profit;

32.4.3.d

for a charge.

##### The S4C Board

33

33.1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to
(4) .

33.2

In section 56 (Welsh Authority to continue in existence as S4C), for
subsection (2) substitute—

33.2.2

The members of the S4C Board (see  section 56A  and  Schedule 6A ) are to be
the members of S4C, but membership of S4C does not enable any person to act
otherwise than through the S4C Board.

33.3

After section 56 insert—

########### The S4C Board

33.3.56A

33.3.56A.1

A Board of S4C is established.

33.3.56A.2

That Board—

33.3.56A.2.a

is to be known as the S4C Board or (in Welsh) Bwrdd S4C, and

33.3.56A.2.b

is to be constituted in accordance with this Act.

33.3.56A.3

Except where otherwise provided by or under any enactment, the duties and
powers of S4C are to be discharged and exercised by the S4C Board on behalf of
S4C.

33.3.56A.4

Schedule 6A  makes further provision about the S4C Board.

33.4

After Schedule 6 insert—

  The S4C Board

Section 56A

############# Membership

33.4.1

33.4.1.1

The S4C Board is to consist of—

33.4.1.1.a

non-executive members, and

33.4.1.1.b

executive members.

33.4.1.2

The non-executive members are to be—

33.4.1.2.a

a chair, and

33.4.1.2.b

at least five, and not more than eight, other non-executive members.

33.4.1.3

It is for the Secretary of State—

33.4.1.3.a

to decide, in accordance with  sub-paragraph (2) (b) , the number of other
non-executive members;

33.4.1.3.b

to appoint the non-executive members.

33.4.1.4

The executive members are to be—

33.4.1.4.a

the employee of S4C holding the position of, or acting as, Chief Executive of
S4C, and

33.4.1.4.b

at least one and not more than two other employees of S4C.

33.4.1.5

It is for the non-executive members, in accordance with  sub-paragraph (4) (b)
—

33.4.1.5.a

to decide the number of other executive members;

33.4.1.5.b

to appoint the other executive members.

33.4.1.6

A person making an appointment under this paragraph must do so with a view to
ensuring that, collectively, the members of the S4C Board have the range of
skills and experience needed for the effective running of S4C.

33.4.2

33.4.2.1

The members of the S4C Board must not at any time include a person who is a
member or an employee of the BBC.

33.4.2.2

The members of the S4C Board must not at any time include a person who is a
member or an employee of OFCOM.

33.4.2.3

The Secretary of State must—

33.4.2.3.a

before appointing a person to be a non-executive member of the S4C Board, be
satisfied that the person will not have any financial or other interest likely
to affect prejudicially the discharge of that person’s duties as a member of
the S4C Board, and

33.4.2.3.b

from time to time consider, in respect of each non-executive member of the S4C
Board, whether that member has any such interest.

############# Tenure of office

33.4.3

33.4.3.1

A member of the S4C Board holds and vacates office in accordance with the
terms of the member’s appointment, subject to the provisions of this Schedule.

33.4.3.2

A non-executive member must be appointed for a fixed term of not more than
five years.

33.4.3.3

A person who has held office as a non-executive member for two consecutive
terms may not be re-appointed as a non-executive member until the end of the
five years beginning with the end of the second of those terms.

33.4.3.4

A non-executive member ceases to be a member of the S4C Board if the member—

33.4.3.4.a

becomes an employee of S4C, or

33.4.3.4.b

resigns from office by giving written notice to the Secretary of State.

33.4.3.5

An executive member under  paragraph 1 (4) (a)  ceases to be a member of the
S4C Board on ceasing to be the Chief Executive of S4C.

33.4.3.6

Any other executive member ceases to be a member of the S4C Board if the
member—

33.4.3.6.a

ceases to be an employee of S4C, or

33.4.3.6.b

resigns from office by giving written notice to S4C.

############# Remuneration and pensions of members

33.4.4

33.4.4.1

S4C may pay to each non-executive member of the S4C Board such remuneration
and allowances as the Secretary of State may determine.

33.4.4.2

S4C may pay or make provision for paying to or in respect of any non-executive
member of the S4C Board such sums by way of pensions, allowances or gratuities
as the Secretary of State may determine.

33.4.4.3

S4C may pay compensation, of such amount as the Secretary of State may
determine, to a person where—

33.4.4.3.a

the person ceases to be a non-executive member of the S4C Board otherwise than
on the expiry of the person’s term of office, and

33.4.4.3.b

it appears to the Secretary of State that there are special circumstances
which make it right for the person to receive compensation.

############# Proceedings

33.4.5

33.4.5.1

The S4C Board may regulate its own procedure (including quorum), subject to
the provisions of paragraphs  6  and  7 .

33.4.5.2

The S4C Board may make arrangements providing for the discharge of any of the
S4C Board’s functions by—

33.4.5.2.a

a committee, or

33.4.5.2.b

one or more persons each of whom is either a member of the S4C Board or an
employee of S4C.

33.4.6

In managing the affairs of S4C the S4C Board must have regard to such
generally accepted principles of good corporate governance as it is reasonable
to regard as applicable to S4C.

33.4.7

33.4.7.1

A member of the S4C Board who has an interest, whether directly or indirectly,
in any matter that is brought up for consideration at a meeting of the S4C
Board must disclose the nature of that interest to the meeting.

33.4.7.2

Where a disclosure is made under  sub-paragraph (1) —

33.4.7.2.a

the disclosure must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting, and

33.4.7.2.b

subject to  sub-paragraph (3) , the member must not take part in any
deliberation or decision of the S4C Board, or any of its committees, with
respect to that matter.

33.4.7.3

Sub-paragraph  (2) (b)  does not apply in relation to a meeting of the S4C
Board at which all the other members present resolve that the member’s
interest is to be disregarded for the purposes of that provision.

33.4.7.4

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) —

33.4.7.4.a

a general notification given at a meeting of the S4C Board that the member is
to be regarded as interested in any matter involving a specified organisation
is to be regarded as a sufficient disclosure of the member’s interest in
relation to any such matter, and

33.4.7.4.b

a member may make a disclosure under that sub-paragraph without attending a
meeting of the S4C Board if the member takes reasonable steps to secure that
the disclosure is made by a notice which is taken into consideration and read
at a meeting.

33.4.7.5

References in this paragraph to a meeting of the S4C Board include references
to a meeting of any of its committees.

33.4.8

The validity of any proceedings of S4C or the S4C Board is not affected by—

33.4.8.a

any vacancy among the members of the S4C Board,

33.4.8.b

any defect in the appointment of a member of the S4C Board, or

33.4.8.c

a failure to comply with the requirements of  paragraph 7 .

33.5

Any person who is the chair, or one of the other members, of S4C immediately
before this section comes into force—

33.5.a

becomes the chair, or one of the other non-executive members, of the S4C Board
on the coming into force of this section, and

33.5.b

holds that office—

33.5.b.i

for the remainder of the term of the person’s appointment as chair or other
member of S4C (subject to  paragraph 3 (4)  of  Schedule 6A  to the
Broadcasting Act 1990, as inserted by  subsection (4)  of this section), and

33.5.b.ii

on and subject to the terms of that appointment.

##### Accounts and audit

34

34.1

Schedule 6 to the Broadcasting Act 1990 (S4C: supplementary provisions) is
amended as follows.

34.2

For paragraph 12(2) and (3) (audit of S4C’s accounts by appointed auditor)
substitute—

34.2.2A

S4C must send a copy of its statement of accounts to the Comptroller and
Auditor General as soon as possible after the end of the financial year to
which the statement relates.

34.2.2B

The Comptroller and Auditor General must—

34.2.2B.a

examine, certify and report on each statement of accounts of S4C, and

34.2.2B.b

send a copy of the report and certified statement of accounts to the Secretary
of State.

34.2.2C

The Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a copy of each such report
and certified statement.

34.2.2D

As soon as possible after the Secretary of State lays copies of the report and
statement of accounts before Parliament, S4C must arrange for the report and
certified statement to be laid before Senedd Cymru.

34.2.2E

S4C must ensure that each S4C subsidiary undertaking appoints the Comptroller
and Auditor General as auditor, unless the S4C subsidiary undertaking requests
the Comptroller and Auditor General’s permission to appoint another person and
the Comptroller and Auditor General permits the appointment of that person as
auditor.

34.2.2F

The Comptroller and Auditor General may inspect the accounts of any S4C
subsidiary undertaking (regardless of who is appointed as auditor).

34.3

After paragraph 12(4) insert—

34.3.5

S4C must ensure that an S4C subsidiary undertaking, if told to do so by the
Secretary of State or any person authorised by the Secretary of State, grants
the Secretary of State or authorised person access to—

34.3.5.a

that undertaking’s accounts;

34.3.5.b

information and documents relating to that undertaking’s financial
transactions and commitments.

34.3.6

In this paragraph “ S4C subsidiary undertaking ” means an undertaking which,
for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, is a subsidiary undertaking of S4C
(see section 1162 of that Act).

34.4

Omit paragraph 13(2) (accounts and audit report to be attached to annual
report).

##### Amendment of BBC’s obligation to provide Welsh programmes

35

35.1

Section 58 of the Broadcasting Act 1990 (sources of programmes for S4C) is
amended as follows.

35.2

For subsections (1) and (1A) substitute—

35.2.1

The BBC must provide to S4C (free of charge) sufficient television programmes
in Welsh to occupy not less than ten hours’ transmission time per week, in a
way that meets the reasonable requirements of S4C.

35.2.1A

The duty in  subsection (1)  does not apply during any period for which the
BBC and S4C agree in writing to put in place alternative arrangements that
contribute to S4C fulfilling its public service remit.

35.2.1B

If the BBC and S4C make an agreement under  subsection (1A)  the BBC must, as
soon as reasonably practicable, publish the terms of the agreement.

35.2.1C

The BBC must exclude from publication any information which it or S4C
considers—

35.2.1C.a

constitutes a trade secret, or

35.2.1C.b

would be likely, if published, to prejudice the commercial interests of any
person,

unless the BBC and S4C consider that there is an overriding public interest in
publishing the information.

35.3

Omit subsections (2) to (4) (which relate to S4C’s switched-off analogue
service).

35.4

In subsection (5)—

35.4.a

for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

35.4.b

for “on S4C” substitute  “on S4C Digital” .

##### Chapter 2 of Part 3: minor and consequential amendments

36

Schedule 4  contains minor and consequential amendments relating to this
Chapter.

### On-demand programme services

#### Tier 1 services

37

37.1

Part 4A of the Communications Act 2003 (on-demand programme services) is
amended as follows.

37.2

After the heading of Part 4A insert—

  Chapter 1

  Introductory Provisions

.

37.3

After section 368A insert—

########## Meaning of non-UK on-demand programme service

37.3.368AA

37.3.368AA.1

For the purposes of this Act, a service (or a dissociable section of a
service) is a “non-UK on-demand programme service” if—

37.3.368AA.1.a

it meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) to (d) of section 368A(1),

37.3.368AA.1.b

it does not meet one or both of the conditions in paragraphs (e) and (f) of
section 368A(1), and

37.3.368AA.1.c

the members of the public for whose use it is made available are or include
members of the public in the United Kingdom.

37.3.368AA.2

Section 368A(5) to (7) applies in relation to a non-UK on-demand programme
service as it applies in relation to an on-demand programme service.

########## Overview of Part 4A

37.3.368AB

37.3.368AB.1

This section provides an overview of this Part.

37.3.368AB.2

This Chapter (Chapter 1) gives the meaning of certain expressions used in this
Part.

37.3.368AB.3

Chapter 2 contains provision for the regulation of on-demand programme
services (as defined by section 368A).

37.3.368AB.4

Chapter 3—

37.3.368AB.4.a

sets out the rules that apply for determining when an on-demand programme
service (as defined by section 368A) or a non-UK on-demand programme service
(as defined by  section 368AA ) is a Tier 1 service,

37.3.368AB.4.b

makes provision for certain sections of Chapter 2 to apply in relation to a
non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service in the same way
that they apply in relation to an on-demand programme service, and

37.3.368AB.4.c

makes provision for the additional regulation of Tier 1 services (whether on-
demand programme services or non-UK on-demand programme services).

37.3.368AB.5

Chapter 4 makes provision about the enforcement of certain provisions of
Chapters 2 and 3.

37.3.368AB.6

Chapter 5 makes supplementary provision.

37.4

In section 368B (the appropriate regulatory authority)—

37.4.a

after subsection (A1) insert—

37.4.a.A2

OFCOM is the appropriate regulatory authority for the purposes of sections
368HC ,  368HJ  and  368HK  (and OFCOM may not designate any other body to be
the appropriate regulatory authority for those purposes).

;

37.4.b

in subsection (1), after “subsections (A1)” insert  “, (A2)” ;

37.4.c

in subsection (5), in paragraph (a), after “on-demand programme services”
insert  “, or non-UK on-demand programme services that are Tier 1 services,” ;

37.4.d

in subsection (9), in paragraph (d), after “on-demand programme services”
insert  “or non-UK on-demand programme services” .

37.5

After section 368B insert—

  Chapter 2

  Regulation of on-demand programme services

.

37.6

After section 368H, insert (as Chapter 3 of Part 4A) the Chapter set out in
Schedule 5  (regulation of Tier 1 services).

37.7

Schedule 6  contains further amendments of Part 4A in connection with Tier 1
services (within the meaning of that Part).

37.8

Schedule 7  contains amendments of other legislation in connection with Tier 1
services (within the meaning of Part 4A of the Communications Act 2003).

#### Audience protection reviews

38

38.1

In Part 4A of the Communications Act 2003, after section 368OA insert—

########## Audience protection reviews etc

########### Audience protection reviews etc

38.1.368OB

38.1.368OB.1

As soon as practicable after this section comes into force, OFCOM must carry
out a review of audience protection measures in use by providers of—

38.1.368OB.1.a

on-demand programme services, or

38.1.368OB.1.b

non-UK on-demand programme services that are Tier 1 services.

38.1.368OB.2

The scope of that review is to consider whether the audience protection
measures are adequate for the purpose of assisting the providers to comply
with the duties imposed on them by or under this Act for the protection of
audiences from harm.

38.1.368OB.3

After the review under  subsection (1) , OFCOM may carry out further reviews
for the same purpose at such times as appear appropriate to OFCOM.

38.1.368OB.4

“Audience protection measures” are measures that are capable of assisting in
protecting audiences from harm, the following being examples—

38.1.368OB.4.a

age rating or other classification systems;

38.1.368OB.4.b

content warnings;

38.1.368OB.4.c

parental controls;

38.1.368OB.4.d

age assurance measures.

38.1.368OB.5

OFCOM may request any provider described in  subsection (1)  to provide OFCOM
with information about its audience protection measures for the purposes of a
review under  subsection (1)  or  (3) .

38.1.368OB.6

OFCOM may also request any provider described in  subsection (1)  to provide
OFCOM with information about its audience protection measures where, in
consequence of a review or anything else done in the exercise of their
functions, they are concerned that the measures in use by that provider are or
might be inadequate.

38.1.368OB.7

A request under  subsection (5)  or  (6)  must specify or describe the
information to be provided and may also—

38.1.368OB.7.a

specify a period of time within which the information must be provided;

38.1.368OB.7.b

specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided.

38.1.368OB.8

A request under  subsection (6)  may specify that information is to be
provided at intervals specified by OFCOM.

38.1.368OB.9

A provider described in  subsection (1)  must comply with a request under
subsection (5)  or  (6) .

38.1.368OB.10

OFCOM may publish any information provided to them under this section.

38.2

In section 393 of that Act (general restrictions on disclosure of
information), in subsection (6), after paragraph (aa) insert—

38.2.ab

limits the information that may be published by OFCOM under  section 368OB ;

.

#### S4C: on-demand programme services

39

39.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

39.2

Omit section 368Q (which makes provision about the application of Part 4A in
relation to the Welsh Authority).

39.3

In section 341 (imposition of penalties on the Welsh Authority), omit
subsection (1)(ja) and (jb).

39.4

In Schedule 12, in Part 2 (the Welsh Authority)—

39.4.a

in paragraph 15—

39.4.a.i

omit sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) to (vi) (but not the “and” following sub-
paragraph (1)(a)(vi));

39.4.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), omit “or on-demand programme services”;

39.4.a.iii

in sub-paragraph (2), omit “or on-demand programme services”;

39.4.a.iv

in sub-paragraph (5), omit “or on-demand programme services”;

39.4.b

omit paragraph 23A.

#### Other amendments of Part 4A of the 2003 Act

40

40.1

Schedule 8  contains other minor amendments of Part 4A of the Communications
Act 2003.

40.2

In consequence of amendments made by  Schedule 8 , omit section 93 of the
Digital Economy Act 2017.

### Regulation of radio services

#### Licensing of analogue radio services

41

41.1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended as follows.

41.2

In section 85 (licensing of independent radio)—

41.2.a

in subsection (1), omit “Subject to subsection (2),”;

41.2.b

omit subsections (2) and (5) to (7).

41.3

In section 97B (variation of licence periods related to digital switchover),
after subsection (4) insert—

41.3.5

If the period for which the licence to provide the post-commencement service
is to continue in force ends before the date for digital switchover, OFCOM may
by notice vary the licence so that the period ends—

41.3.5.a

on that date, or

41.3.5.b

before that date (and after the date when it would have otherwise ended),

if the licence holder consents to the variation.

41.4

In section 98 (applications for national licences)—

41.4.a

in subsection (1)(b)—

41.4.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (ii), insert  “and” ;

41.4.a.ii

omit sub-paragraphs (iii) and (iv);

41.4.b

omit subsection (3)(a);

41.4.c

in subsection (4), omit “(a),”;

41.4.d

in subsection (6)(b), for “(3)(a) and (aa)” substitute  “(3)(aa)” .

41.5

In section 99 (procedure in connection with applications for national
licences)—

41.5.a

omit subsection (1)(a);

41.5.b

in subsection (1)(b), for “that service” substitute  “the proposed service” ;

41.5.c

in subsection (2), for “(1)(a) and (b)” substitute  “(1)” .

41.6

In section 100 (award of national licences to cash bidders)—

41.6.a

omit subsection (9)(b);

41.6.b

omit subsection (10)(a).

41.7

In section 103 (restrictions relating to changes of control)—

41.7.a

omit subsection (3);

41.7.b

for subsection (4) substitute—

41.7.b.4

OFCOM may refuse to approve a change described in subsection (1)(a) if they
consider it appropriate to do so.

41.8

In section 103A (renewal of national licences), in subsection (9)—

41.8.a

after paragraph (b) insert  “and” ;

41.8.b

omit paragraph (d) and the “and” before it.

41.9

In section 111 (power to revoke licences)—

41.9.a

omit subsection (4) (procedure where national service ceases to be provided);

41.9.b

in subsection (6), omit “, (4)”.

41.10

In section 117 (procedure in connection with applications), in subsection
(4)(b), for the words from “with the substitution” to the end substitute  “as
if the matters specified in that subsection included the name of every other
applicant in whose case it appeared to OFCOM that the requirement specified in
subsection (1)(a) above was satisfied.”

#### Licensing and local services

42

42.1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended as follows.

42.2

For section 104 (applications for other licences) substitute—

########## Applications for licences: local services and restricted services

42.2.104

42.2.104.1

An application for a licence to provide a local service must—

42.2.104.1.a

be made in such manner as OFCOM may determine, and

42.2.104.1.b

be accompanied by such fee (if any) as OFCOM may determine.

42.2.104.2

An application for a licence to provide a restricted service must—

42.2.104.2.a

be made in such manner as OFCOM may determine, and

42.2.104.2.b

be accompanied by such fee (if any) as OFCOM may determine.

42.3

In section 104AA (further renewal of local licences)—

42.3.a

in subsection (3), for “subsections (4), (4A) and (5)” substitute
“subsections (4) to (5)” ;

42.3.b

after subsection (4) insert—

42.3.b.4ZA

Where the application for the renewal of the licence under this section has
been duly made to OFCOM (as mentioned in section 104A(5)), OFCOM must grant
the application if—

42.3.b.4ZA.a

the condition in section 104A(5)(a) is met,

42.3.b.4ZA.b

the conditions in section 104A(5)(b) and (c) are not met because the applicant
does not make the nomination required by section 104A(4), and

42.3.b.4ZA.c

the alternative condition in  subsection (4ZB)  below is met instead.

42.3.b.4ZB

The alternative condition is met if—

42.3.b.4ZB.a

in the application for the renewal, or at any time before the consideration of
that application, the applicant makes to OFCOM—

42.3.b.4ZB.a.i

a statement of explanation — which is a statement that it has not been
possible for the applicant to make the nomination required by section 104A(4)
because of the lack of availability of a relevant local radio multiplex
service, or of a relevant small-scale radio multiplex service, that is
suitable for the applicant’s needs and could be nominated in accordance with
section 104A(4)(b); and

42.3.b.4ZB.a.ii

a statement of intent — which is a statement that the applicant will make to
OFCOM a nomination of the kind required by section 104A(4) as soon as it is
reasonably possible to do so because of the availability of a relevant local
radio multiplex service, or of a relevant small-scale radio multiplex service,
that is suitable for the applicant’s needs and meets the requirements of
section 104A(4); and

42.3.b.4ZB.b

OFCOM are satisfied that it has not been possible for the applicant to make
the nomination required by section 104A(4) for a reason of the kind set out in
paragraph  (a) (i) .

42.3.b.4ZC

Where OFCOM grant the application in accordance with  subsection (4ZA)  they
must include in the licence as renewed—

42.3.b.4ZC.a

a condition requiring the licence holder to do all that it can to ensure that
it makes the nomination described in the statement of intent as soon as it is
reasonably possible to do so, and

42.3.b.4ZC.b

a condition requiring the licence holder to do all that it can to ensure that
it starts broadcasting the nominated digital sound programme service, by means
of the nominated multiplex service, as soon as reasonably possible after it
has made that nomination.

42.4

Omit sections 104B (special application procedure for local licences) and 105
(special requirements relating to grant of local licences).

#### Character of local services

43

43.1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended in accordance with subsections (2) and
(3).

43.2

In section 106 (requirements as to character and coverage of national and
local services)—

43.2.a

in subsection (1), omit “or local”;

43.2.b

in subsection (1A), omit paragraphs (b) to (e);

43.2.c

omit subsection (1B);

43.2.d

omit subsection (7).

43.3

Omit section 106ZA (consultation about change of character of local services).

43.4

In the Communications Act 2003, omit sections 355 and 356 (variation of local
licence following change of control).

#### Local news and information

44

44.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended in accordance with this section.

44.2

Section 314 (local content and character of local sound broadcasting services)
is amended in accordance with subsections (3) to (8).

44.3

For the heading substitute  “Local news and information in local sound
broadcasting services” .

44.4

For subsection (1) substitute—

44.4.1

A local sound broadcasting licence must contain such conditions as OFCOM
consider appropriate for—

44.4.1.a

requiring the licensed local sound broadcasting service to include, and
regularly broadcast, programmes that consist of or include local news and
information, and

44.4.1.b

requiring that local news to consist of or include locally-gathered news.

44.5

For subsection (1A) substitute—

44.5.1A

But subsection (1) does not apply in the case of a local sound broadcasting
service if OFCOM consider it is appropriate for it not to apply in that case.

44.6

In subsection (2)—

44.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “the requirements of subsection (1)(a) and (b) should be
satisfied” substitute  “the providers of local sound broadcasting services may
act consistently with conditions contained in licences in accordance with
subsection (1)” ;

44.6.b

in paragraph (b), for “in relation to local sound broadcasting services”
substitute  “under subsection (1)” .

44.7

In subsection (7)—

44.7.a

omit the definition of “approved area”;

44.7.b

in the definition of “local material”—

44.7.b.i

for ““local material”” substitute  ““local news and information”” ;

44.7.b.ii

for “means material” substitute  “means news and information” ;

44.7.c

for the definition of “locally-made” substitute—

      “ locally-gathered ”, in relation to news broadcast on a local sound
broadcasting service, means—         news gathered in the coverage area of a
local radio multiplex service that to a significant extent includes the
coverage area of the local sound broadcasting service by persons who gather
news in the course of an employment or business, or           if there is no
local radio multiplex service with such a coverage area, news gathered in the
area or locality for which the local sound broadcasting service is provided by
persons who gather news in the course of an employment or business;
and for this purpose the coverage area for a local radio multiplex service or
local sound broadcasting service is the area determined by OFCOM to be the
area in the United Kingdom within which the service is capable of being
received at a level satisfying such technical standards as may have been laid
down by them for the purposes of this section;

;

44.7.d

omit the definition of “material”.

44.8

Omit subsections (9) to (11).

44.9

After section 315 insert—

########## Local news and information in local digital radio services

44.9.315A

44.9.315A.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision for enabling OFCOM
to ensure that, for each licensed local radio multiplex service, at least one
of the licensed local digital sound programme services broadcast by means of
that multiplex service consists of, or includes, local news and information or
locally-gathered news and information.

44.9.315A.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under this section includes
provision about the conditions that OFCOM may, or must, include in a licence
that authorises the provision of—

44.9.315A.2.a

a local digital sound programme service, or

44.9.315A.2.b

a local radio multiplex service.

44.9.315A.3

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before making regulations under this
section.

44.9.315A.4

The power in section 402(3)(c) for regulations under this section to make
consequential provision includes power to make provision which amends any
enactment.

44.9.315A.5

In this section—

      “ licensed ” local radio multiplex service or local digital sound
programme service means such a service which is provided in accordance with a
licence issued by OFCOM;           “ local news and information ”, in relation
to a local radio multiplex service or a local digital sound programme service
provided through such a multiplex service, means news and information which is
of particular interest—         to persons living or working within the area
or locality for which the multiplex service is provided;           to persons
living or working within a part of that area or locality; or           to
particular communities living or working within that area or locality or a
part of it;                 “ locally-gathered news ”, in relation to a local
radio multiplex service or a local digital sound programme service provided
through such a multiplex service, means news that has been gathered in the
area or locality for which the multiplex service is provided, by persons who
gather news in the course of an employment or business.

44.10

In section 402 (orders and regulations made by the Secretary of State), in
subsection (2A), before paragraph (za) (and after paragraph (zza) inserted by
section 46) insert—

44.10.zzb

regulations under section 315A which amend any Act of Parliament;

.

#### Financial assistance for radio

45

After section 359 of the Communications Act 2003 insert—

######## Financial assistance for radio

######### Power of the Secretary of State to give financial assistance for radio

45.359A

45.359A.1

The Secretary of State may give financial assistance for or in connection
with—

45.359A.1.a

the provision of eligible services;

45.359A.1.b

the production of sound programmes (whether intended for broadcast or
distribution by any other means).

45.359A.2

The financial assistance may be given—

45.359A.2.a

by way of grant, loan or guarantee or in any other form, and

45.359A.2.b

subject to such conditions as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

45.359A.3

The conditions may (among other things) include provision under which the
financial assistance is to be repaid or otherwise made good (with or without
interest).

45.359A.4

The eligible services for the purposes of  subsection (1) (a)  are—

45.359A.4.a

services of a description in relation to which provision is for the time being
in force under section 262 (community radio);

45.359A.4.b

local sound broadcasting services;

45.359A.4.c

local digital sound programme services.

#### Licensing of non-UK digital sound programme services

46

46.1

Section 245 of the Communications Act 2003 (regulation of independent radio
services) is amended in accordance with subsections (2) and (3).

46.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

46.2.c

digital sound programme services that do not fall within paragraph (a) or (b)
but—

46.2.c.i

are provided from a place in a qualifying country, and

46.2.c.ii

are or are intended to be broadcast by means of a local radio multiplex
service or small-scale radio multiplex service.

46.3

After subsection (3) insert—

46.3.3A

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, amend or otherwise modify Schedule
2 to the Broadcasting Act 1990 (restrictions on the holding of licences) in
its application to digital sound programme services that fall within
subsection (1)(c).

46.3.3B

The regulations may in particular—

46.3.3B.a

disapply or modify existing restrictions;

46.3.3B.b

provide for new restrictions to apply.

46.3.3C

In subsection (1)(c)—

      “ qualifying country ” means a country or territory outside the United
Kingdom that is specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of subsection (1)(c);           “ small-scale radio multiplex
service ” has the same meaning as in section 258A.

46.4

In section 402 of the Communications Act 2003 (power of Secretary of State to
make orders and regulations), in subsection (2A) (affirmative resolution
procedure), before paragraph (za) insert—

46.4.zza

regulations under section 245(3C) (specification of country or territory as a
“qualifying country”);

.

#### Radio multiplex licences

47

47.1

The Broadcasting Act 1996 is amended as follows.

47.2

In section 46 (national radio multiplex licences)—

47.2.a

in subsection (3)(a), omit “and (f)”;

47.2.b

in subsection (4), omit paragraphs (c) to (f);

47.2.c

omit subsection (5);

47.2.d

in subsection (8)(a)—

47.2.d.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) insert  “and” ;

47.2.d.ii

omit sub-paragraph (ii).

47.3

In section 47 (award of national radio multiplex licences)—

47.3.a

in subsection (2)—

47.3.a.i

in paragraph (b), for “timetables” substitute  “timetable” ;

47.3.a.ii

also in paragraph (b), omit “and (d)”;

47.3.a.iii

at the end of paragraph (c) insert  “and” ;

47.3.a.iv

omit paragraphs (d) and (e);

47.3.b

omit subsection (3).

47.4

In section 50 (local radio multiplex licences)—

47.4.a

in subsection (4), omit paragraphs (c) to (e);

47.4.b

in subsection (7)(a)—

47.4.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) insert  “and” ;

47.4.b.ii

omit sub-paragraph (ii).

47.5

In section 51(2) (award of local radio multiplex licences)—

47.5.a

in paragraph (b)—

47.5.a.i

for “timetables” substitute  “timetable” ;

47.5.a.ii

omit “and (d)”;

47.5.b

omit paragraphs (d) and (e);

47.5.c

in paragraph (f), for “living in that area or locality,” substitute
“providing or proposing to provide community or local digital sound programme
services in the area or locality for which the proposed service is to be
provided,” .

47.6

In section 54 (conditions of radio multiplex licences)—

47.6.a

in subsection (1)—

47.6.a.i

omit paragraph (b);

47.6.a.ii

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (g);

47.6.a.iii

after paragraph (h) insert—

47.6.a.iii.i

that the holder of the licence publishes information, in such manner as OFCOM
consider appropriate, as to the payments to be made by the holders of
community, local and national digital sound programme licences for the
broadcasting of their services under the licence, and

47.6.a.iii.j

that the holder of the licence provides to OFCOM information, in such manner
as OFCOM consider appropriate, on the community, local and national digital
sound programme services provided for broadcasting by means of the service.

;

47.6.b

in subsection (5)—

47.6.b.i

omit “or (b)”;

47.6.b.ii

for “section 42(3)(b)” substitute  “section 42(3)” ;

47.6.c

omit subsections (6) to (6B).

47.7

In section 54A(6) (variation of radio multiplex licences), for the words from
“doing so” to the end substitute  “the coverage area of the licensed service
would not (as a result of the variation) be unacceptably reduced.”

47.8

In section 58 (duration and renewal of radio multiplex licences)—

47.8.a

omit subsection (4)(a)(ii);

47.8.b

in subsection (11), omit “and supplementary proposals”.

47.9

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection (6)(c), omit section 315 of
the Communications Act 2003.

### Regulation of radio selection services

#### Regulation of radio selection services

48

48.1

After  section 362AZ12  of the Communications Act 2003 (inserted by  section
28 ) insert—

########## Regulation of radio selection services

########### Designated radio selection services

############ Meaning of “radio selection service”

48.1.362BA

48.1.362BA.1

In this Part, “ radio selection service ” means a service provided by means of
the internet which enables, or among other things enables, a user of the
service—

48.1.362BA.1.a

to make a selection between internet radio services provided by different
providers, and

48.1.362BA.1.b

to cause a selected internet radio service to play,

by giving spoken commands that are recorded by equipment connected to the
internet.

48.1.362BA.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to alter
the definition of “radio selection service”.

48.1.362BA.3

The amendments that may be made by virtue of  subsection (2)  include—

48.1.362BA.3.a

amendments adding, removing or altering a thing that a radio selection service
is to enable a user to do, and

48.1.362BA.3.b

amendments adding, removing or altering a way in which a radio selection
service may be caused to operate.

48.1.362BA.4

The power in section 402(3)(c) for regulations under  subsection (2)  to make
consequential provision includes power to make provision which amends any
enactment.

48.1.362BA.5

Before making regulations under  subsection (2) , the Secretary of State must
consult OFCOM.

48.1.362BA.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (2)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

############ Meaning of “designated radio selection service”

48.1.362BB

48.1.362BB.1

For the purposes of this Part, a “designated radio selection service” is a
radio selection service designated by the Secretary of State by regulations.

48.1.362BB.2

The Secretary of State may designate a radio selection service under
subsection (1)  only if the Secretary of State considers that the level of use
of the service in the United Kingdom to listen to internet radio services is
significant (and the Secretary of State may consider the level of use to be
significant if the Secretary of State considers it to be significant in
certain circumstances, such as while in a vehicle).

48.1.362BB.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
have received a report under  section 362BC  relating to the radio selection
service in question.

48.1.362BB.4

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

48.1.362BB.4.a

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of radio
selection services;

48.1.362BB.4.b

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of
internet radio services;

48.1.362BB.4.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

48.1.362BB.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to add or
remove a condition that must be satisfied before a radio selection service may
be designated under  subsection (1)  or to alter such a condition.

48.1.362BB.6

Subsection (4)  applies in relation to the making of regulations under
subsection (5)  as it applies in relation to the making of regulations under
subsection (1) .

48.1.362BB.7

The power in section 402(3)(c) for regulations under  subsection (5)  to make
consequential provision includes power to make provision which amends any
enactment.

48.1.362BB.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (5)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

############ Advice from OFCOM

48.1.362BC

48.1.362BC.1

OFCOM may prepare reports making recommendations about the exercise of the
power under  section 362BB (1) .

48.1.362BC.2

Where—

48.1.362BC.2.a

the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under  section 362BB (1) ,
and

48.1.362BC.2.b

the Secretary of State has not received a report under  subsection (1)
relating to the radio selection service or services that would be affected by
the proposed regulations,

the Secretary of State must request OFCOM to prepare a report making
recommendations about exercising the power under  section 362BB (1)  in
relation to that service or those services.

48.1.362BC.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under  subsection (2) , OFCOM
must prepare such a report as soon as practicable.

48.1.362BC.4

A report under  subsection (1)  or  (3)  relating to the exercise of the power
under  section 362BB (1)  must include OFCOM’s assessment, in relation to each
radio selection service in question, of—

48.1.362BC.4.a

the number of members of the public using the service;

48.1.362BC.4.b

the manner in which the service is used by those persons;

48.1.362BC.4.c

whether the level of use of the service is significant;

48.1.362BC.4.d

such matters as OFCOM consider likely to affect the matters referred to in
paragraph (a) ,  (b)  or  (c) .

48.1.362BC.5

Where OFCOM prepares a report under  subsection (1)  or  (3) , OFCOM must—

48.1.362BC.5.a

give it to the Secretary of State, and

48.1.362BC.5.b

publish it.

48.1.362BC.6

If the Secretary of State exercises the power under  section 362BB (1)  in a
manner which differs from recommendations made in a report under this section,
the Secretary of State must publish, no later than the time at which the
regulations are made, a statement of the reasons for doing so.

48.1.362BC.7

OFCOM must draw up, and from time to time review and revise, a statement about
the principles and methods to be followed by OFCOM when preparing reports
under  subsection (1)  or  (3) .

48.1.362BC.8

OFCOM must publish the statement and any revised statement.

############ Revocation of designation of radio selection service

48.1.362BD

48.1.362BD.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations revoke the designation of a
designated radio selection service.

48.1.362BD.2

The provider of a designated radio selection service may request the Secretary
of State to revoke its designation.

48.1.362BD.3

The Secretary of State must revoke the designation of a designated radio
selection service by regulations under  subsection (1)  if the Secretary of
State considers that the level of use of the service in the United Kingdom to
listen to internet radio services is not significant.

48.1.362BD.4

Before revoking the designation of a designated radio selection service, the
Secretary of State must have received a report from OFCOM making
recommendations about the exercise of the power under  subsection (1)  in
relation to that service.

48.1.362BD.5

Where the Secretary of State requests OFCOM to prepare a report making
recommendations about the exercise of the power under  subsection (1)  in
relation to a designated radio selection service, OFCOM must—

48.1.362BD.5.a

prepare such a report in relation to that service as soon as practicable,

48.1.362BD.5.b

give it to the Secretary of State, and

48.1.362BD.5.c

publish it.

############ List of designated radio selection services etc

48.1.362BE

48.1.362BE.1

OFCOM must establish and maintain an up to date list of designated radio
selection services and their providers.

48.1.362BE.2

A provider of a designated radio selection service must give notice to OFCOM
if the service ceases to be provided.

48.1.362BE.3

A notice given to OFCOM under this section must—

48.1.362BE.3.a

be sent in such manner as OFCOM may require;

48.1.362BE.3.b

contain such information as OFCOM may require.

48.1.362BE.4

OFCOM must publish the list on a publicly accessible part of their website.

########### Relevant internet radio services

############ Meaning of “internet radio service”

48.1.362BF

48.1.362BF.1

In this Part, “ internet radio service ” means a service, or a dissociable
section of a service, which consists in the provision by a person of
programmes consisting wholly of sound (together with any ancillary services)
with a view to their being made available for reception by members of the
public by being distributed by means of the internet (whether by the provider
of the service or another person).

48.1.362BF.2

In this section, “ ancillary service ”, in relation to an internet radio
service, means a service which is provided by the provider of that internet
radio service and consists in the provision of a service (other than
advertising) which—

48.1.362BF.2.a

is ancillary to the programmes included in that internet radio service and is
directly related to their contents, or

48.1.362BF.2.b

relates to the promotion or listing of such programmes.

############ Meaning of “relevant internet radio service”

48.1.362BG

48.1.362BG.1

In this Part, “ relevant internet radio service ” means an internet radio
service for the time being included in the list maintained by OFCOM under
subsection (2) .

48.1.362BG.2

OFCOM must establish and maintain an up to date list of the internet radio
services in relation to which the conditions in subsections  (3)  and  (5)
are satisfied and their providers.

48.1.362BG.3

The condition in this subsection is that, in the opinion of OFCOM, the
provider of the service has in place an effective system or process for
securing that the service corresponds to a UK radio service that is provided
by the provider of the internet radio service.

48.1.362BG.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , an internet radio service corresponds to
a UK radio service if, disregarding advertisements, all of the programmes
included in the internet radio service are broadcast on the UK radio service
at the same time as they are provided by the internet radio service.

48.1.362BG.5

The condition in this subsection is that the provider of an internet radio
service—

48.1.362BG.5.a

has given notice to OFCOM requesting that the service be included in the list,
and

48.1.362BG.5.b

has not since then given notice to OFCOM under subsection  (6)  or  (7) .

48.1.362BG.6

The provider of an internet radio service included in the list may give notice
to OFCOM requesting that the service be removed from the list.

48.1.362BG.7

The provider of an internet radio service included in the list must give
notice to OFCOM if—

48.1.362BG.7.a

that person ceases to be the provider of the service,

48.1.362BG.7.b

that person ceases to be the provider of the UK radio service to which it
relates, or

48.1.362BG.7.c

the service ceases to be provided.

48.1.362BG.8

A notice given to OFCOM under this section must—

48.1.362BG.8.a

be sent in such manner as OFCOM may require;

48.1.362BG.8.b

contain such information as OFCOM may require.

48.1.362BG.9

OFCOM must take appropriate steps to keep the list up to date, including by
carrying out further assessments of whether a provider of an internet radio
service has in place such system or process as is described in  subsection (3)
.

48.1.362BG.10

OFCOM must publish the list on a publicly accessible part of their website.

48.1.362BG.11

In this section—

      “ digital sound programme service ” has the same meaning as in Part 2 of
the 1996 Act (see section 40 of that Act);           “ restricted service ”
has the same meaning as in section 245;           “ short-duration restricted
service ” means a restricted service authorised to be provided by a licence
under Part 3 of the 1990 Act where the period specified in the licence as the
period for which the licence is in force is less than 12 months;           “
sound broadcasting service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1990 Act
(see section 126 of that Act);           “ UK radio service ” means—         a
sound broadcasting service, other than a short-duration restricted service,
provided by the BBC or authorised to be provided by a licence under Part 3 of
the 1990 Act, or           a digital sound programme service provided by the
BBC or authorised to be provided by a licence under Part 2 of the 1996 Act.

############ Sections 

48.1.362BH

48.1.362BH.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

48.1.362BH.1.a

amend section  362BF  so as to alter the definition of “internet radio
service”;

48.1.362BH.1.b

amend section  362BG  so as to alter the definition of “relevant internet
radio service”.

48.1.362BH.2

The amendments that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  include
amendments adding or removing a condition that must be satisfied in relation
to a service or altering such a condition.

48.1.362BH.3

The amendments that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1) (b)  include
amendments adding or removing a condition that must be satisfied in relation
to an internet radio service or altering such a condition.

48.1.362BH.4

The conditions for which provision may be made by virtue of  subsection (3)
include conditions preventing or restricting charging for allowing the
internet radio service in question to be played.

48.1.362BH.5

The power in section 402(3)(c) for regulations under  subsection (1)  to make
consequential provision includes power to make provision which amends any
enactment.

48.1.362BH.6

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

48.1.362BH.6.a

OFCOM,

48.1.362BH.6.b

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of radio
selection services,

48.1.362BH.6.c

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of
internet radio services, and

48.1.362BH.6.d

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

48.1.362BH.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (1)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
each House of Parliament.

########### Regulation of radio selection services

############ Access to relevant internet radio services

48.1.362BI

48.1.362BI.1

The provider of a designated radio selection service must take all reasonable
steps to secure that users of the service—

48.1.362BI.1.a

are able, within a reasonable period beginning with the inclusion of an
internet radio service in the list under  section 362BG —

48.1.362BI.1.a.i

to select that internet radio service, and

48.1.362BI.1.a.ii

to cause that service to play,

by giving spoken commands as described in  section 362BA (1) , and

48.1.362BI.1.b

are able to continue to do so while that internet radio service is included in
the list.

48.1.362BI.2

The provider of a designated radio selection service must take all reasonable
steps to secure that, where the service is used as described in  subsection
(1) —

48.1.362BI.2.a

no items are played before the selected service is caused to play, other than—

48.1.362BI.2.a.i

a brief identification of the selected service,

48.1.362BI.2.a.ii

if the service employs another service (or other services) provided by means
of the internet to cause the selected service to play, a brief identification
of that other service (or one of those other services), and

48.1.362BI.2.a.iii

if the provider of the selected service agrees, one or more advertisements,
and

48.1.362BI.2.b

the playing of the selected service is not interrupted.

This subsection is subject to  subsection (5) .

48.1.362BI.3

Subsection (4)  applies if the provider of a relevant internet radio service
requests the provider of a designated radio selection service to secure that
the service employs a particular method as regards that relevant internet
radio service when complying with  subsection (1)  (for example, a method that
involves the service employing another service provided by means of the
internet to cause that relevant internet radio service to play).

48.1.362BI.4

Where this subsection applies, the provider of the designated radio selection
service must take all reasonable steps to secure that, on an occasion when the
service is being used as described in  subsection (1)  in relation to that
relevant internet radio service, the service employs that method, subject to
subsection (5) .

48.1.362BI.5

Subsections  (2)  and  (4)  are not to be taken to require the provider of a
designated radio selection service to override the preferences of a user of
the service as to the way in which the service operates.

48.1.362BI.6

A provider of a designated radio selection service—

48.1.362BI.6.a

must not charge a provider of a relevant internet radio service for doing what
that provider of a designated radio selection service is required to do by
subsection  (1) ,  (2)  or  (4)  in relation to that relevant internet radio
service, and

48.1.362BI.6.b

must not enter into an agreement that provides for the payment by a provider
of a relevant internet radio service of charges, which would breach, or are
capable of breaching, the prohibition in  paragraph (a) .

############ Further provision about access to relevant internet radio services

48.1.362BJ

48.1.362BJ.1

The provider of a designated radio selection service must draw up a statement
about how the provider intends to comply with the duties and prohibition in
section 362BI .

48.1.362BJ.2

The provider must keep the statement under review and, if appropriate, revise
it.

48.1.362BJ.3

The provider must publish the statement and any revised statement.

############ Code of practice

48.1.362BK

48.1.362BK.1

OFCOM must issue a code of practice describing actions that OFCOM recommend
for the purpose of securing that the manner in which a designated radio
selection service operates complies with the duties and prohibition in
section 362BI .

48.1.362BK.2

OFCOM may—

48.1.362BK.2.a

revise a code of practice issued under this section and issue the code as
revised;

48.1.362BK.2.b

withdraw a code of practice issued under this section and issue a new code of
practice.

48.1.362BK.3

OFCOM must—

48.1.362BK.3.a

publish a code of practice issued under this section in such manner as they
consider appropriate;

48.1.362BK.3.b

keep a code of practice issued under this section under review.

48.1.362BK.4

If requested by the Secretary of State to review all or part of a code of
practice issued under this section, OFCOM must review the code or that part of
it.

48.1.362BK.5

The actions recommended in a code of practice issued under this section may
include—

48.1.362BK.5.a

actions relating to particular descriptions of designated radio selection
services;

48.1.362BK.5.b

actions relating to particular descriptions of relevant internet radio
services.

############ Effects of the code of practice

48.1.362BL

48.1.362BL.1

The provider of a designated radio selection service is to be treated as
complying with a duty or prohibition in  section 362BI  if the provider takes
the actions described in the code of practice which are recommended for the
purpose of complying with that duty or prohibition.

48.1.362BL.2

A failure by the provider of a designated radio selection service to act in
accordance with a provision of the code of practice does not of itself make
the provider liable to legal proceedings before a court or tribunal.

48.1.362BL.3

In any legal proceedings before a court or tribunal, the court or tribunal
must take into account a provision of the code of practice in determining any
question arising in the proceedings if—

48.1.362BL.3.a

the question relates to a time when the provision was in force, and

48.1.362BL.3.b

the provision appears to the court or tribunal to be relevant to the question.

48.1.362BL.4

OFCOM must take into account a provision of the code of practice in
determining any question arising in connection with the carrying out by them
of a relevant function if—

48.1.362BL.4.a

the question relates to a time when the provision was in force, and

48.1.362BL.4.b

the provision appears to OFCOM to be relevant to the question.

48.1.362BL.5

In this section, “ relevant function ” means a function conferred on OFCOM by
any of sections  362BR  to  362BW  (enforcement).

############ Issuing a code of practice

48.1.362BM

48.1.362BM.1

Before issuing a code of practice under  section 362BK , OFCOM—

48.1.362BM.1.a

must publish a draft of the code or (as the case may be) a draft of the
revisions of the existing code;

48.1.362BM.1.b

must consult the following about the draft—

48.1.362BM.1.b.i

the Secretary of State;

48.1.362BM.1.b.ii

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of internet radio services;

48.1.362BM.1.b.iii

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of radio selection
services;

48.1.362BM.1.b.iv

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate;

48.1.362BM.1.c

may make such alterations to the draft as OFCOM consider appropriate following
the consultation.

48.1.362BM.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to revisions of the code of
practice if—

48.1.362BM.2.a

OFCOM give the Secretary of State a draft of the revisions of the existing
code, and

48.1.362BM.2.b

the Secretary of State agrees that it is not necessary for subsection  (1)  to
apply in relation to the revisions.

############ Complaints procedures

48.1.362BN

The provider of a designated radio selection service must establish and
maintain procedures for the handling and resolution of complaints made by
providers of relevant internet radio services that the provider is failing, or
has failed, to comply with a duty or prohibition in  section 362BI .

########### Modification of regulation of radio selection services

############ Power to modify regulation

48.1.362BO

48.1.362BO.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Part so as to add to the
duties and prohibitions imposed on providers of radio selection services or to
alter or remove such a duty or prohibition.

48.1.362BO.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under  subsection (1)  includes—

48.1.362BO.2.a

provision about enabling the use of a radio selection service to select and
cause to play any relevant internet radio service of a particular sort (for
example, a service characterised by the nature of its contents or the identity
of its provider);

48.1.362BO.2.b

provision about the terms and conditions that may be offered by the provider
of a radio selection service to the provider of a relevant internet radio
service for or in connection with the use of the service to access the
relevant internet radio service;

48.1.362BO.2.c

provision about the charges that may be imposed by the provider of a radio
selection service on the provider of a relevant internet radio service in
connection with the use of the service to access the relevant internet radio
service;

48.1.362BO.2.d

provision about the publication of information about such terms, conditions
and charges.

48.1.362BO.3

The power in section 402(3)(c) for regulations under  subsection (1)  to make
consequential provision includes power to make provision which amends any
enactment.

48.1.362BO.4

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
have received a report of a review under  section 362BP .

48.1.362BO.5

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

48.1.362BO.5.a

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of
internet radio services;

48.1.362BO.5.b

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of radio
selection services;

48.1.362BO.5.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

48.1.362BO.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (1)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
each House of Parliament.

############ Review by OFCOM

48.1.362BP

48.1.362BP.1

OFCOM may prepare reports that review the adequacy of the regulation of radio
selection services by this Part.

48.1.362BP.2

Where—

48.1.362BP.2.a

the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under  section 362BO (1) ,
and

48.1.362BP.2.b

the Secretary of State has not received a report under  subsection (1) ,

the Secretary of State must request OFCOM to prepare a report that reviews the
adequacy of the regulation of radio selection services by this Part.

48.1.362BP.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under  subsection (2) , OFCOM
must prepare such a report as soon as practicable.

48.1.362BP.4

OFCOM must give the Secretary of State a report prepared under  subsection (1)
or  (3) .

48.1.362BP.5

OFCOM must publish reports given to the Secretary of State under this section.

########### Power to require information

############ Power to require information

48.1.362BQ

48.1.362BQ.1

OFCOM may by notice (an “information notice”) require a person within
subsection (4)  to provide them with any information that they require for the
purpose of carrying out their functions under this Part.

48.1.362BQ.2

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  includes power to require a person
within  subsection (4)  to obtain or generate information.

48.1.362BQ.3

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  must be exercised in a way that is
proportionate to the use to which the information is to be put by OFCOM.

48.1.362BQ.4

The persons within this subsection are—

48.1.362BQ.4.a

a provider of a radio selection service;

48.1.362BQ.4.b

a provider of an internet radio service;

48.1.362BQ.4.c

a person who provides a relevant ancillary service in relation to a radio
selection service or an internet radio service;

48.1.362BQ.4.d

a person who was within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  at a time to which
the required information relates;

48.1.362BQ.4.e

a person who is not within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  but who appears to
OFCOM to have, or to be able to obtain or generate, information required by
them as mentioned in  subsection (1) .

48.1.362BQ.5

The information that OFCOM may require under  subsection (1)  includes, in
particular, information that they require for any one or more of the following
purposes—

48.1.362BQ.5.a

the purpose of preparing a report under  section 362BC  (advice from OFCOM
about the designation of a radio selection service);

48.1.362BQ.5.b

the purpose of preparing a report under  section 362BD  (advice from OFCOM
about revoking the designation of a radio selection service);

48.1.362BQ.5.c

the purpose of assessing compliance with  section 362BE (2)  (duty of
providers of radio selection services to notify OFCOM);

48.1.362BQ.5.d

the purpose of assessing whether a service is a relevant internet radio
service (see sections  362BF  and  362BG );

48.1.362BQ.5.e

the purpose of assessing compliance with  section 362BG (7)  (duty of
providers of certain services to notify OCFOM);

48.1.362BQ.5.f

the purpose of assessing compliance with a duty or prohibition under  section
362BI  or  362BJ  (access duties of providers of designated radio selection
services etc);

48.1.362BQ.5.g

the purpose of preparing or reviewing a code of practice under section 362BK
(code of practice relating to duties and prohibition under  section 362BI );

48.1.362BQ.5.h

the purpose of assessing compliance with the duty under  section 362BN  (duty
to establish and maintain complaints procedures);

48.1.362BQ.5.i

the purpose of preparing a report under  section 362BP  (reports reviewing
adequacy of the regulation of designated radio selection services by this
Part);

48.1.362BQ.5.j

the purpose of assessing compliance with any requirements imposed by a
confirmation decision under  section 362BS ;

48.1.362BQ.5.k

the purpose of determining the appropriate fee that a provider is required to
pay under  section 362BX ;

48.1.362BQ.5.l

the purpose of OFCOM’s monitoring role under  section 362BZ1 ;

48.1.362BQ.5.m

the purpose of ascertaining the amount of a person’s or a group of entities’
qualifying worldwide revenue for the purposes of paragraph  3  or  4  of
Schedule 16A .

48.1.362BQ.6

An information notice must—

48.1.362BQ.6.a

specify or describe the information to be provided,

48.1.362BQ.6.b

specify why OFCOM require the information,

48.1.362BQ.6.c

specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided, and

48.1.362BQ.6.d

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

48.1.362BQ.7

An information notice must specify when the information must be provided which
may be—

48.1.362BQ.7.a

on or by a specified date, or

48.1.362BQ.7.b

within a specified period.

48.1.362BQ.8

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  does not include power to require the
provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications, could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

48.1.362BQ.9

A person to whom an information notice is given must provide the information
in accordance with any requirements included in the notice (subject to
subsection (10) ).

48.1.362BQ.10

The duty under  subsection (9)  does not require a disclosure of information
if that disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but, in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, that duty is to be taken into
account).

48.1.362BQ.11

For the purposes of  subsection (4) (c) , a service is a “ relevant ancillary
service ” in relation to a radio selection service or an internet radio
service if it facilitates the provision of that service (or part of it),
whether directly or indirectly.

48.1.362BQ.12

In this section, a reference to the functions of OFCOM under this Part
includes a reference to their functions under  Schedules 16A  and  16B , so
far as relating to this Part.

48.1.362BQ.13

In this section, “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in
the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

########### Enforcement

############ Provisional notices of contravention

48.1.362BR

48.1.362BR.1

OFCOM may give a notice under this section (a “provisional notice of
contravention”) to a person if they consider that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that the person has failed, or is failing, to comply with any
duty or prohibition under section  362BE ,  362BG ,  362BI ,  362BJ  or  362BN
.

48.1.362BR.2

OFCOM may also give a provisional notice of contravention to a person to whom
an information notice has been given if they consider that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that the person has failed, or is failing, to
comply with the duty under  section 362BQ (9) .

48.1.362BR.3

A provisional notice of contravention must—

48.1.362BR.3.a

specify the duty or prohibition as regards which (in OFCOM’s opinion) there
are reasonable grounds for believing the person has failed, or is failing, to
comply, and

48.1.362BR.3.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for that opinion.

48.1.362BR.4

A provisional notice of contravention may also specify steps that OFCOM
consider the person needs to take in order to—

48.1.362BR.4.a

comply with the duty or prohibition, or

48.1.362BR.4.b

remedy the failure to comply with it.

48.1.362BR.5

A provisional notice of contravention may also state that OFCOM propose to
impose a penalty on the person and, in such a case, the notice must—

48.1.362BR.5.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for proposing to impose the penalty,

48.1.362BR.5.b

indicate the amount in sterling of the proposed penalty, and

48.1.362BR.5.c

give OFCOM’s reasons for proposing a penalty of that amount, including any
aggravating or mitigating factors that OFCOM propose to take into account.

48.1.362BR.6

A provisional notice of contravention must—

48.1.362BR.6.a

state that the person may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting
evidence) about the matters contained in the notice, and

48.1.362BR.6.b

specify the period within which such representations may be made.

48.1.362BR.7

A provisional notice of contravention may be given in respect of a failure by
the same person to comply with more than one duty or prohibition and, in such
a case, the notice may include a proposal to impose a single penalty in
respect of some or all of those duties or duties and prohibition (as an
alternative to separate penalties).

48.1.362BR.8

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given in respect of a
continuing failure to comply with a duty or prohibition, the notice—

48.1.362BR.8.a

may be given in respect of any period during which the failure has continued,

48.1.362BR.8.b

must specify that period, and

48.1.362BR.8.c

may include a proposal to impose no more than one penalty in respect of that
period.

48.1.362BR.9

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given to a person in respect of
a failure to comply with a duty or prohibition, a further provisional notice
of contravention in respect of a failure to comply with that same duty or
prohibition may be given to that person only—

48.1.362BR.9.a

in respect of a separate instance of the failure that occurs after the first
notice is given,

48.1.362BR.9.b

where a period is specified in the first notice in accordance with  subsection
(8) (b) , in respect of the continuation of the failure after the end of that
period, or

48.1.362BR.9.c

if the notice is withdrawn without a confirmation decision under  section
362BS  having been given to the person in respect of that failure.

48.1.362BR.10

OFCOM may give a provisional notice of contravention to—

48.1.362BR.10.a

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a designated radio selection
service, or

48.1.362BR.10.b

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a relevant internet radio
service,

if that person was a provider of a designated radio selection service or (as
the case may be) a relevant internet radio service at the time of the failure
to which the notice relates.

############ Confirmation decisions: general

48.1.362BS

48.1.362BS.1

This section applies where—

48.1.362BS.1.a

OFCOM have given a provisional notice of contravention to a person in relation
to a failure to comply with a duty or duties or a prohibition, and

48.1.362BS.1.b

the period allowed for representations has expired.

48.1.362BS.2

After considering any representations that have been made (and any supporting
evidence), OFCOM must decide whether or not to give the person a further
notice under this section (a “confirmation decision”).

48.1.362BS.3

OFCOM may decide to give a person a confirmation decision only if they are
satisfied that the person has failed, or has been failing, to comply with the
notified duty or one or more of the notified duties.

48.1.362BS.4

For the purposes of this section and sections  362BT  and  362BU , a “
notified duty ” means a duty or prohibition specified in the provisional
notice of contravention.

48.1.362BS.5

If OFCOM decide not to give a person a confirmation decision (whether because
they are not satisfied as described in  subsection (3)  or for any other
reason), they must inform the person of that fact.

48.1.362BS.6

A confirmation decision must—

48.1.362BS.6.a

state that OFCOM are satisfied that the person has failed, or has been
failing, to comply with one or more notified duties, and

48.1.362BS.6.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for being satisfied as described in  paragraph (a) .

48.1.362BS.7

A confirmation decision may require the person to take such steps as OFCOM
consider appropriate for either or both of the following purposes—

48.1.362BS.7.a

complying with a notified duty or duties;

48.1.362BS.7.b

remedying the failure to comply with that duty or those duties.

48.1.362BS.8

Where a provisional notice of contravention stated that OFCOM proposed to
impose a penalty in relation to a notified duty or (by virtue of  section
362BR (7) ) in relation to notified duties, a confirmation decision may
require the person to pay a penalty, of an amount in sterling determined by
OFCOM, in relation to that duty or (as the case may be) those duties.

48.1.362BS.9

The amount determined by OFCOM under  subsection (8)  may be greater than the
amount indicated in the provisional notice of contravention in accordance with
section 362BR (5) (b) .

48.1.362BS.10

OFCOM may give a confirmation decision to—

48.1.362BS.10.a

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a designated radio selection
service, or

48.1.362BS.10.b

a person who was but is no longer a provider of a relevant internet radio
service,

if that person was a provider of a designated radio selection service or (as
the case may be) a relevant internet radio service at the time of the failure
to which the decision relates.

############ Confirmation decisions: steps

48.1.362BT

48.1.362BT.1

This section applies where a confirmation decision requires the person to whom
it is given to take steps as provided for by  section 362BS (7) .

48.1.362BT.2

The notice must—

48.1.362BT.2.a

specify the steps that are required and the notified duty or duties to which
each relates,

48.1.362BT.2.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for requiring those steps to be taken,

48.1.362BT.2.c

specify a reasonable period within which each of the steps specified in the
notice must be taken, and

48.1.362BT.2.d

contain information about the consequences of not taking the steps (including
information about further kinds of enforcement action that it would be open to
OFCOM to take).

48.1.362BT.3

Where a confirmation decision requires a person to take steps, the person to
whom the notice is given has a duty to take those steps.

48.1.362BT.4

The duty under  subsection (3)  is enforceable in civil proceedings by OFCOM—

48.1.362BT.4.a

for an injunction;

48.1.362BT.4.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988;

48.1.362BT.4.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

############ Confirmation decisions: penalties

48.1.362BU

48.1.362BU.1

This section applies where a confirmation decision imposes one or more
penalties (see  section 362BS (8) ).

48.1.362BU.2

In relation to each penalty imposed, the notice must—

48.1.362BU.2.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

48.1.362BU.2.b

specify each notified duty to which the penalty relates,

48.1.362BU.2.c

give OFCOM’s reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating
or mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

48.1.362BU.2.d

specify a reasonable period within which the penalty must be paid, and

48.1.362BU.2.e

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the kinds of enforcement action that it would be
open to OFCOM to take).

48.1.362BU.3

The period specified under  subsection (2) (d)  for the payment of a penalty
must be at least 28 days beginning with the day on which the confirmation
decision is given.

48.1.362BU.4

Schedule 16A  contains further provision about the imposition of a penalty by
a confirmation decision.

############ Penalty for failure to comply with confirmation decision

48.1.362BV

48.1.362BV.1

This section applies where—

48.1.362BV.1.a

OFCOM have given a confirmation decision to a person,

48.1.362BV.1.b

the notice includes requirements to take steps (as provided for by  section
362BS (7) ), and

48.1.362BV.1.c

OFCOM are satisfied that the person has failed to comply with one or more of
those requirements.

48.1.362BV.2

OFCOM may give the person a penalty notice.

48.1.362BV.3

A “penalty notice” is a notice requiring a person to pay to OFCOM a penalty of
an amount in sterling determined by OFCOM.

48.1.362BV.4

Before giving the person a penalty notice, OFCOM must—

48.1.362BV.4.a

notify the person that they propose to give a penalty notice in respect of the
failure to comply with the confirmation decision, specifying the reasons for
their proposal and indicating the amount of the proposed penalty, and

48.1.362BV.4.b

give the person an opportunity to make representations to OFCOM (with any
supporting evidence) about their proposal.

48.1.362BV.5

A penalty notice must—

48.1.362BV.5.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

48.1.362BV.5.b

state the amount of the penalty,

48.1.362BV.5.c

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

48.1.362BV.5.d

specify the period within which the penalty must be paid, and

48.1.362BV.5.e

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

48.1.362BV.6

The period specified under  subsection (5) (d)  must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day on which the penalty notice is given.

48.1.362BV.7

Schedule 16A  contains further provision about the imposition of a penalty by
a penalty notice.

############ Enforcement: guidance

48.1.362BW

48.1.362BW.1

OFCOM must prepare and publish guidance about the exercise of their powers
under sections  362BR  to  362BV  and  Schedule 16B  (so far as relating to
this Part).

48.1.362BW.2

The guidance must include the factors that OFCOM will take into account in
deciding whether to exercise any of those powers.

48.1.362BW.3

OFCOM may revise or replace any guidance published under this section and,
where they do so, must publish the revised or replacement guidance.

48.1.362BW.4

Before preparing guidance under this section (or revising or replacing it),
OFCOM must consult—

48.1.362BW.4.a

the Secretary of State, and

48.1.362BW.4.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

48.1.362BW.5

Guidelines prepared by OFCOM under section 392 (amount of penalties) may, so
far as relating to penalties imposed by a confirmation decision under  section
362BS  or a penalty notice under  section 362BV , be included in the same
document as guidance under this section.

48.1.362BW.6

In exercising or deciding whether to exercise any of their powers under
sections  362BR  to  362BV  and  Schedule 16B  (so far as relating to this
Part), OFCOM must have regard to any guidance for the time being published
under this section.

########### Supplemental provisions of Part 3B

############ Fees

48.1.362BX

48.1.362BX.1

OFCOM may require any of the following persons to pay to OFCOM a fee of an
amount determined by OFCOM—

48.1.362BX.1.a

a provider of a relevant internet radio service;

48.1.362BX.1.b

a provider of a designated radio selection service.

48.1.362BX.2

The amount of a fee required under  subsection (1)  must be determined by
OFCOM in accordance with a statement of principles prepared and published by
them for the purpose of this section.

48.1.362BX.3

Those principles must be such as appear to OFCOM to be likely to secure the
following objectives—

48.1.362BX.3.a

that, on a year by year basis, the aggregate amount of the fees payable to
OFCOM under  subsection (1)  is sufficient to meet, but does not exceed, the
annual cost to OFCOM of carrying out their functions under this Part less an
appropriate amount to take into account costs that will be met by fees payable
by the BBC under section 198(4);

48.1.362BX.3.b

that the relationship between the aggregate amount of the fees and the cost to
OFCOM of carrying out the functions is transparent;

48.1.362BX.3.c

that any fee required is justifiable and proportionate having regard to the
circumstances of the person required to pay it.

48.1.362BX.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each financial year, OFCOM
must publish a statement of accounts setting out in respect of that year—

48.1.362BX.4.a

the aggregate amount of the fees payable under  subsection (1)  for that year
that have been received by OFCOM,

48.1.362BX.4.b

the aggregate amount of the fees payable under  subsection (1)  for that year
that remain outstanding and are likely to be paid or recovered, and

48.1.362BX.4.c

the costs to them of carrying out their functions under this Part less an
appropriate amount to take into account costs that have been or are to be met
by fees payable by the BBC under section 198(4).

48.1.362BX.5

Any deficit or surplus shown (after applying this subsection for all previous
years) by the statement of accounts is to be—

48.1.362BX.5.a

carried forward, and

48.1.362BX.5.b

taken into account in determining what is required to meet the objective
described in  subsection (3) (a)  in relation to the following year.

48.1.362BX.6

OFCOM may repay a person some or all of a fee paid under  subsection (1)  if,
in the case of a fee paid by the provider of a designated radio selection
service—

48.1.362BX.6.a

the Secretary of State has revoked the designation of a designated radio
selection service provided by that person at some time during the period to
which the fee relates, or

48.1.362BX.6.b

the person gives OFCOM a notice under  section 362BE (2)  in accordance with
section 362BE (3)  at some time during the period to which the fee relates.

48.1.362BX.7

For the purposes of this section, OFCOM’s costs of carrying out their
functions under this Part during a financial year include their costs of
preparing to carry out those functions during that year.

48.1.362BX.8

OFCOM—

48.1.362BX.8.a

may revise a statement of principles published by them, and

48.1.362BX.8.b

where they do so, must publish the statement as revised.

48.1.362BX.9

Before publishing a statement of principles or a revision of it, OFCOM must
consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

48.1.362BX.10

In this section, a reference to the functions of OFCOM under this Part
includes a reference to their functions under  Schedules 16A  and  16B , so
far as relating to this Part.

48.1.362BX.11

In this section, “ financial year ” means a period of 12 months ending on 31
March.

############ Non-payment of fee

48.1.362BY

48.1.362BY.1

This section applies if—

48.1.362BY.1.a

the provider of a relevant internet radio service or a designated radio
selection service is liable to pay a fee to OFCOM under  section 362BX , and

48.1.362BY.1.b

in OFCOM’s opinion, the provider has not paid the full amount of the fee that
the provider is liable to pay.

48.1.362BY.2

OFCOM may give the provider a notice under this subsection specifying—

48.1.362BY.2.a

the outstanding amount of the fee that OFCOM consider the provider is due to
pay to them under  section 362BX , and

48.1.362BY.2.b

the period within which the provider must pay it.

48.1.362BY.3

A notice under  subsection (2) —

48.1.362BY.3.a

may relate to fees required on different occasions;

48.1.362BY.3.b

may also state that OFCOM propose to impose a penalty on the provider.

48.1.362BY.4

The provider may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting evidence)
about the matters contained in the notice.

48.1.362BY.5

Subsection (6)  applies if—

48.1.362BY.5.a

the notice under  subsection (2)  stated that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty,

48.1.362BY.5.b

the period allowed for representations has expired, and

48.1.362BY.5.c

OFCOM are satisfied that an amount of the fee or fees is still due to them.

48.1.362BY.6

OFCOM may give the provider a penalty notice under this subsection requiring
the provider to pay to OFCOM a penalty of an amount in sterling determined by
OFCOM.

48.1.362BY.7

The penalty may consist of any of the following—

48.1.362BY.7.a

a single amount;

48.1.362BY.7.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate;

48.1.362BY.7.c

a combination of a single amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

48.1.362BY.8

The penalty notice may impose a penalty of a different kind, of a greater
amount or (in the case of a penalty calculated by reference to a daily rate)
payable over a longer period than that proposed in the notice about the
proposed penalty.

48.1.362BY.9

See  section 362BZ  for information which must be included in notices under
this section.

48.1.362BY.10

Nothing in this section affects OFCOM’s power to bring proceedings (whether
before or after the imposition of a penalty by a notice under  subsection (6)
) for the recovery of the whole or part of an amount due to OFCOM under
section 362BX .

48.1.362BY.11

But OFCOM may not bring such proceedings unless a provider has first been
given a notice under  subsection (2)  specifying the amount due to OFCOM.

############ Information to be included in a notice under 

48.1.362BZ

48.1.362BZ.1

A notice under  section 362BY (2)  stating that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty must—

48.1.362BZ.1.a

state the reasons why OFCOM propose to impose the penalty,

48.1.362BZ.1.b

state whether OFCOM propose that the penalty should consist of a single
amount, an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or a combination of
the two,

48.1.362BZ.1.c

indicate the amount of the proposed penalty, including (in relation to an
amount calculated by reference to a daily rate) the daily rate and how the
penalty would be calculated,

48.1.362BZ.1.d

in relation to an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, specify or
describe the period for which OFCOM propose that the amount should be payable,

48.1.362BZ.1.e

state the reasons for proposing a penalty of that amount, including any
aggravating or mitigating factors that OFCOM propose to take into account, and

48.1.362BZ.1.f

specify the period within which representations in relation to the proposed
penalty may be made.

48.1.362BZ.2

A penalty notice under  section 362BY (6)  must—

48.1.362BZ.2.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

48.1.362BZ.2.b

state whether the penalty consists of a single amount, an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, or a combination of the two, and how it is
calculated,

48.1.362BZ.2.c

in relation to a single amount, state that amount,

48.1.362BZ.2.d

in relation to an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, state the
daily rate,

48.1.362BZ.2.e

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

48.1.362BZ.2.f

specify a reasonable period within which the penalty must be paid, and

48.1.362BZ.2.g

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

48.1.362BZ.3

A penalty notice under  section 362BY (6)  must also specify the amount of the
fee that is (in OFCOM’s opinion) due to be paid to OFCOM.

48.1.362BZ.4

The period specified under  subsection (2) (f)  for the payment of a single
amount must be at least 28 days beginning with the day on which the penalty
notice is given.

48.1.362BZ.5

Subsection (6)  applies in relation to a penalty notice under  section 362BY
(6)  that includes a requirement to pay an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

48.1.362BZ.6

Such a notice must—

48.1.362BZ.6.a

state the date from which the amount begins to be payable, which must not be
earlier than the day after the day on which the notice is given;

48.1.362BZ.6.b

provide for the amount to continue to be payable at the daily rate until—

48.1.362BZ.6.b.i

the date on which the full amount of the fee (as specified in the penalty
notice) has been paid to OFCOM, or

48.1.362BZ.6.b.ii

an earlier date specified in the penalty notice.

48.1.362BZ.7

Schedule 16A  contains further provision about the imposition of a penalty by
a penalty notice under  section 362BY (6) .

############ Monitoring role for OFCOM

48.1.362BZ1

OFCOM have the function of obtaining, compiling and keeping under review
information about matters which may be relevant to—

48.1.362BZ1.a

designating or revoking the designation of a radio selection service (see
sections  362BB  and  362BD );

48.1.362BZ1.b

deciding whether to take enforcement action under this Part and Schedule 16B
(so far as relating to this Part).

############ Notices

48.1.362BZ2

48.1.362BZ2.1

This section applies in relation to a notice that may or must be given by
OFCOM to a person under any provision of this Part or Schedule 16B (so far as
relating to this Part).

48.1.362BZ2.2

OFCOM may give a notice to a person by—

48.1.362BZ2.2.a

delivering it by hand to the person,

48.1.362BZ2.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

48.1.362BZ2.2.c

sending it by post to the person at that address, or

48.1.362BZ2.2.d

sending it by email to that person’s email address.

48.1.362BZ2.3

A notice to a body corporate may be given to any officer of that body.

48.1.362BZ2.4

A notice to a partnership may be given to any partner or to a person who has
the control or management of the partnership business.

48.1.362BZ2.5

A notice to an entity that is not a legal person under the law under which it
is formed (other than a partnership) may be given to any member of the
governing body of the entity.

48.1.362BZ2.6

In the case of a notice given to a person who is a provider of a designated
radio selection service, the person’s proper address for the purposes of
paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)  of  subsection (2) , and section 7 of the
Interpretation Act 1978 in its application to those paragraphs, is any address
(within or outside the United Kingdom) at which OFCOM believe, on reasonable
grounds, that the notice will come to the attention of the person or (where
that person is an entity) any director or other officer of that entity.

48.1.362BZ2.7

In the case of a notice given to a person other than a provider of a
designated radio selection service, a person’s proper address for the purposes
of paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)  of  subsection (2) , and section 7 of the
Interpretation Act 1978 in its application to those paragraphs, is—

48.1.362BZ2.7.a

in the case of an entity, the address of the entity’s registered or principal
office;

48.1.362BZ2.7.b

in any other case, the person’s last known address.

48.1.362BZ2.8

In the case of an entity registered or carrying on business outside the United
Kingdom, or with offices outside the United Kingdom, the reference in
subsection (7)  to its principal office includes—

48.1.362BZ2.8.a

its principal office in the United Kingdom, or

48.1.362BZ2.8.b

if the entity has no office in the United Kingdom, any place in the United
Kingdom at which OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will
come to the attention of any director or other officer of that entity.

48.1.362BZ2.9

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (d) , a person’s email address is—

48.1.362BZ2.9.a

any email address published for the time being by that person as an address
for contacting that person, or

48.1.362BZ2.9.b

if there is no such published address, any email address by means of which
OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will come to the
attention of that person or (where that person is an entity) any director or
other officer of that entity.

48.1.362BZ2.10

A notice sent by email is treated as given 48 hours after it was sent, unless
the contrary is proved.

48.1.362BZ2.11

In this section—

      “ director ” includes any person occupying the position of a director,
by whatever name called;           “ officer ”, in relation to an entity,
includes a director, a manager, a partner, an associate, a secretary or, where
the affairs of the entity are managed by its members, a member.

############ Application of Part 3B

48.1.362BZ3

48.1.362BZ3.1

A duty or prohibition imposed on a provider of a designated radio selection
service by or under this Part applies in relation to that service only so far
as it is made available for use by members of the public in the United
Kingdom.

48.1.362BZ3.2

References in this Part to a radio selection service include such a service
provided from outside the United Kingdom (as well as such a service provided
from within the United Kingdom).

48.1.362BZ3.3

The power to require the provision of information by an information notice
includes power to require the provision of information held outside the United
Kingdom.

48.1.362BZ3.4

Section  362BT (4)  (requirements enforceable in civil proceedings against a
person) applies whether or not the person is in the United Kingdom.

############ Interpretation of Part 3B

48.1.362BZ4

48.1.362BZ4.1

In this Part—

      “ ancillary service ”, in relation to an internet radio service, has the
meaning given by  section 362BF  (except in the expression “ relevant
ancillary service ”);           “ designated radio selection service ” has the
meaning given by  section 362BB ;           “ entity ” means a body or
association of persons or an organisation, regardless of whether the body,
association or organisation is—         formed under the law of any part of
the United Kingdom or of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, or
a legal person under the law under which it is formed;                 “
information notice ” has the meaning given by  section 362BQ ;           “
internet radio service ” has the meaning given by  section 362BF ;           “
provide ”, in relation to a sound broadcasting service or digital sound
programme service, has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 362(2) and
(3));           “ radio selection service ” has the meaning given by  section
362BA ;           “ relevant internet radio service ” has the meaning given by
section 362BG .

48.1.362BZ4.2

A reference in this Part to the playing of an internet radio service includes
a reference to providing its ancillary services (if any).

48.2

Schedule 9  contains further amendments relating to regulation of radio
selection services.

### Miscellaneous and general

#### Amount of penalties etc

##### Penalties under Parts 3A and 3B of the Communications Act 2003

49

49.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

49.2

After section 392 insert—

########### Penalties under Parts 3A and 3B etc

############ Amount of penalties etc

49.2.392A

Schedule 16A  contains provision about the amount of penalties that OFCOM may
impose under Part 3A or 3B, and makes further provision about such penalties.

49.3

After Schedule 16 insert (as  Schedule 16A ) the Schedule set out in  Schedule
10  (penalties imposed by OFCOM under Parts 3A and 3B).

49.4

After  section 392A  (inserted by  subsection (2) ) insert—

########### Liability of parent entities etc

49.4.392B

Schedule 16B  contains provision for the purposes of Parts 3A and 3B about—

49.4.392B.a

the giving of joint provisional notices of contravention to parent entities
etc,

49.4.392B.b

the liability of parent entities for failures by subsidiary entities,

49.4.392B.c

the liability of subsidiary entities for failures by parent entities,

49.4.392B.d

the liability of fellow subsidiary entities for failures by subsidiary
entities, and

49.4.392B.e

the liability of controlling individuals for failures by entities.

49.5

After  Schedule 16A  (as inserted by  subsection (3) ) insert (as  Schedule
16B ) the Schedule set out in  Schedule 11  (Parts 3A and 3B: liability of
parent entities etc).

#### Publishers of news-related material

##### Awards of costs

50

50.1

The Crime and Courts Act 2013 is amended as follows.

50.2

Section 40 (awards of costs) is omitted.

50.3

In section 41 (meaning of “ relevant publisher ”), in subsection (1), for “40”
substitute  “39” .

#### Amendments related to the UK's withdrawal from the EU

##### Amendments of broadcasting legislation: UK’s withdrawal from EU

51

Schedule 12  contains amendments of the Broadcasting Act 1990, the
Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications Act 2003 to address failures of
retained EU law to operate effectively and other deficiencies arising from the
withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.

#### General

##### Power to make consequential provision

52

52.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

52.2

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by
or under an Act passed—

52.2.a

before this Act, or

52.2.b

in the same session of Parliament as this Act.

52.3

Regulations under this section may—

52.3.a

make different provision for different purposes;

52.3.b

make transitional, transitory or saving provision.

52.4

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

52.5

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under this section that amend or repeal any provision of an Act
may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

52.6

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

##### Financial provisions

53

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament any increase
attributable to the Act in the sums payable under any other Act out of money
so provided.

##### Extent

54

54.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
to  subsection (2) .

54.2

An amendment or repeal made by this Act has the same extent within the United
Kingdom as the provision amended or repealed.

54.3

The power under—

54.3.a

section 204(6) of the Broadcasting Act 1990,

54.3.b

section 150(4) of the Broadcasting Act 1996, or

54.3.c

section 411(6) of the Communications Act 2003,

may be exercised so as to extend to any of the Channel Islands or the Isle of
Man any amendment or repeal made by or under this Act of any part of the
Broadcasting Act 1990, the Broadcasting Act 1996 or the Communications Act
2003 (with or without modifications).

54.4

His Majesty may by Order in Council provide for any of the other provisions of
this Act to extend, with or without modifications, to any of the Channel
Islands or to the Isle of Man.

##### Commencement

55

55.1

The following come into force on the day on which this Act is passed—

55.1.a

Part 2 , so far as it confers powers to make regulations;

55.1.b

sections  52  to  54 , this section and  section 56 .

55.2

Section  50  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed.

55.3

The following come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint—

55.3.a

Part 1 ;

55.3.b

the remaining provisions of  Part 2 ;

55.3.c

Part 3 ;

55.3.d

Part 4 ;

55.3.e

Part 5 ;

55.3.f

Part 6 ;

55.3.g

section 49  and  Schedules 10  and  11 ;

55.3.h

section 51  and  Schedule 12 .

55.4

Different days may be appointed for different purposes.

55.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of
this Act.

55.6

The power to make regulations under  subsection (5)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

55.7

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

##### Short title

56

This Act may be cited as the Media Act 2024.

## Schedules

  Quotas: the BBC and S4C

Section 17

##### Quotas: the BBC

1

1.1

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 12 to the Communications Act 2003 (the BBC: quotas for
independent productions) is amended as follows.

1.2

For sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

1.2.1

It shall be the duty of the BBC to secure that, in each year—

1.2.1.a

it makes available qualifying audiovisual content that includes a range and
diversity of independent productions commissioned in accordance with any
relevant code drawn up by the BBC under the BBC Charter and Agreement, and

1.2.1.b

the duration (in total) of those independent productions is at least the
number of hours specified by order of the Secretary of State.

1.3

In sub-paragraph (2), omit paragraph (a).

1.4

Omit sub-paragraph (3).

1.5

In sub-paragraph (5), for the words from “, in each year” to the end of the
sub-paragraph substitute

—

1.5.a

in each year, it makes available qualifying audiovisual content that includes
a range and diversity of independent productions commissioned in accordance
with any relevant code drawn up by the BBC under the BBC Charter and
Agreement, and

1.5.b

the cost (in total) of the acquisition of those independent productions is at
least the amount specified in the order.

1.6

Omit sub-paragraphs (8) and (9).

1.7

In sub-paragraph (10), in paragraph (b), for “the percentage” substitute  “the
number of hours or (as the case may be) the amount” .

1.8

Omit sub-paragraph (11).

1.9

In sub-paragraph (14), omit the definition of “programming budget” and the
word “and” before it.

1.10

After sub-paragraph (14) insert—

1.10.15

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this paragraph etc).

##### Quotas: S4C

2

2.1

Paragraph 7 of Schedule 12 to the Communications Act 2003 (S4C: quotas for
independent productions) is amended as follows.

2.2

For sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

2.2.1

It shall be the duty of S4C to secure that, in each year—

2.2.1.a

it makes available qualifying audiovisual content that includes a range and
diversity of independent productions commissioned in accordance with the code
drawn up under paragraph 10, and

2.2.1.b

the duration (in total) of those independent productions is at least the
number of hours specified by order of the Secretary of State.

2.3

In sub-paragraph (2), omit paragraph (a).

2.4

Omit sub-paragraph (3).

2.5

In sub-paragraph (5), for the words from “, in each year” to the end of the
sub-paragraph substitute

—

2.5.a

in each year, it makes available qualifying audiovisual content that includes
a range and diversity of independent productions commissioned in accordance
with the code drawn up under paragraph 10, and

2.5.b

the cost (in total) of the acquisition of those independent productions is at
least the amount specified in the order.

2.6

In sub-paragraph (8), in paragraph (b), for “the percentage” substitute  “the
number of hours or (as the case may be) the amount” .

2.7

Omit sub-paragraph (9).

2.8

Omit sub-paragraph (12).

2.9

In sub-paragraph (13), omit the definition of “programming budget” and the
word “and” before it.

2.10

After sub-paragraph (13) insert—

2.10.14

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this paragraph etc).

3

3.1

Paragraph 8 of Schedule 12 to that Act (programme quotas for original
productions) is amended as follows.

3.2

For sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

3.2.1

It shall be the duty of S4C to secure that, in each year—

3.2.1.a

it makes available qualifying audiovisual content that includes a range of
original productions,

3.2.1.b

the duration (in total) of those original productions is at least the number
of hours determined in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1B) , and

3.2.1.c

if OFCOM so provide in a direction given to S4C, the additional peak viewing
time objective described in sub-paragraph  (1A)  is met.

3.2.1A

The additional peak viewing time objective is that (out of the number of hours
determined for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) (b) ) at least the number of
hours determined in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1B)  is allocated to the
broadcasting of original productions included in S4C Digital at peak viewing
times.

3.2.1B

A determination for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) (b)  or  (1A)  is to
be—

3.2.1B.a

by agreement between S4C and OFCOM, or

3.2.1B.b

in default of agreement, by a direction given by OFCOM to S4C specifying the
number of hours.

3.2.1C

Before giving a direction under sub-paragraph  (1) (c) , OFCOM must consult
S4C.

3.3

Omit sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

3.4

In sub-paragraph (6), omit the words from “, in relation to” to “the Welsh
Authority,”.

3.5

After sub-paragraph (7) insert—

3.5.7A

An order under sub-paragraph (6) may—

3.5.7A.a

authorise OFCOM to give a direction to S4C that original productions of a
description specified in the direction may not be counted towards meeting
S4C’s duty under sub- paragraph (1);

3.5.7A.b

require OFCOM to consult S4C before giving such a direction;

3.5.7A.c

require OFCOM to prepare and publish guidance about the determination of
whether an original production falls within a description specified in a
direction given by virtue of paragraph (a);

3.5.7A.d

require S4C to have regard to that guidance.

3.6

Omit sub-paragraph (10).

3.7

In sub-paragraph (11), in the definition of “peak viewing time”—

3.7.a

omit the words from “, in relation to” to “the Welsh Authority,”;

3.7.b

for “one or more of those services” substitute  “S4C Digital” .

3.8

After sub-paragraph (12) insert—

3.8.13

See also sections  278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this paragraph etc).

4

In paragraph 10 of Schedule 12 to that Act (code relating to programme
commissioning)—

4.a

in sub-paragraph (1), after “to be applied” insert

—

4.a.a



;

4.b

at the end of that sub-paragraph insert

, or

4.b.b

when they are agreeing terms for the commissioning of independent productions
that will be included in a qualifying audiovisual service other than one to
which paragraph (a) relates but which they wish to count towards meeting a
duty imposed by virtue of paragraph 7(1) or (4).

;

4.c

in sub-paragraph (4), after paragraph (g) insert—

4.c.h

that such information about the application of the code as OFCOM consider
appropriate is given to persons who make independent productions that are to
be commissioned in accordance with the code.

;

4.d

after sub-paragraph (11) insert—

4.d.12

See also  sections 278B  and  278C  (which make further provision for the
interpretation of this paragraph etc).

Part 1: further amendments

Section 27

##### Broadcasting Act 1990

1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended as follows.

2

In section 24 (Channel 4 to be provided by Corporation as licensed service),
in subsection (3), for “England, Scotland and Northern Ireland” substitute
“the United Kingdom” .

3

In section 49 (licensing of additional services), omit subsection (1A).

4

In section 66 (requirements relating to transmission and distribution of
services), in subsection (6)(b), for “England, Scotland and Northern Ireland”
substitute  “the United Kingdom” .

5

In Schedule 2 (restrictions on the holding of licences), in Part 2
(disqualification for holding licences), in paragraph 2 (disqualification of
religious bodies)—

5.a

omit sub-paragraph (1A)(d);

5.b

in sub-paragraph (1B), omit the definition of “public teletext licence”.

##### Broadcasting Act 1996

6

The Broadcasting Act 1996 is amended as follows.

7

In section 2 (meaning of “ qualifying service ”), in subsection (2), omit
paragraph (f) (meaning of “ the digital public teletext provider ”).

8

In section 12 (conditions attached to multiplex licence), omit subsection
(4)(a).

9

9.1

Section 24 (digital additional service) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)(c), omit “the digital public teletext service,”.

9.3

In subsection (3A), in the definition of “relevant public service
broadcaster”, omit paragraph (f).

10

In section 33 (review of digital television broadcasting), in subsection
(1)(a)(ii), omit “the digital public teletext service,”.

11

In section 39 (interpretation of Part 1), in subsection (1), omit the
definitions of—

11.a

“digital public teletext service”;

11.b

“public teletext provider”.

12

12.1

Section 97 (listed events) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (2)(d) (as substituted by section 299(1) of the Communications
Act 2003), for  “televise”  substitute “show”.

12.3

In subsection (3)—

12.3.a

omit the “and” following paragraph (a);

12.3.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

12.3.b.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

13

13.1

Section 98 (categories of service) is amended as follows.

13.2

Omit subsection (4).

13.3

In subsection (5), for the words from “television” to the end substitute
“relevant services which appear to them to fall within  subsection (1A)  or
(2A) .”

13.4

Omit subsections (5A) to (5D).

14

14.1

Section 99 (contract for exclusive right to televise listed event to be void)
is amended as follows.

14.2

In the heading, for “right to televise” substitute  “coverage of” .

14.3

Omit subsection (2).

14.4

Omit subsection (4).

15

In section 100 (contract for televising listed event must specify category of
service), in the heading, for “televising” substitute  “showing coverage of” .

16

16.1

Section 102 (power of OFCOM to impose penalty) is amended as follows.

16.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

16.2.A1

If OFCOM—

16.2.A1.a

are satisfied that a person other than the BBC or S4C who is the provider of a
relevant service has failed to comply with section  101 (1) , and

16.2.A1.b

are not satisfied that in all the circumstances it would be unreasonable to
have expected the person to have complied with that provision,

they may require the person to pay, within a specified period, a specified
financial penalty to OFCOM.

16.2.B1

If OFCOM are satisfied that, in connection with an application for consent for
the purposes of section  101 (5) , a person other than the BBC or S4C who is
the provider of a relevant service has—

16.2.B1.a

provided them with information which was false in a material particular, or

16.2.B1.b

withheld any material information with the intention of causing OFCOM to be
misled,

they may require the person to pay, within a specified period, a specified
financial penalty to OFCOM.

16.3

In subsection (1)(a), omit “subsection (1) of section 101 or”.

16.4

in subsection (2), for “under subsection (1) of section 101 or” substitute
“for the purposes of” .

16.5

In subsection (3), after “subsection” insert  “ (A1) ,  (B1) ,” .

16.6

In subsection (4)(a), after “means” insert

—

16.6.i

in relation to a financial penalty imposed under  subsection (A1)  or  (B1) ,
an amount determined by OFCOM to be the value of the rights to include
coverage of the event in question in the relevant service at the time when the
rights are acquired, and

16.6.ii

in relation to a financial penalty imposed under subsection (1) or (2),

.

16.7

In subsection (6), after “subsection” insert  “ (A1) ,  (B1) ,” .

16.8

In subsection (7), after “subsection” insert  “ (A1) ,  (B1) ,” .

17

In section 103 (report to Secretary of State about BBC or S4C), in subsection
(2), for “under subsection (1) of section 101” substitute  “for the purposes
of section 101(5)” .

18

18.1

Section 104 (code of guidance) is amended as follows.

18.2

In subsection (1)—

18.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “section 101(1B)” substitute  “section  101 (5) ” ;

18.2.b

in paragraph (b)—

18.2.b.i

for “section 102(1)” substitute  “section 102 (A1)  or (1)” ;

18.2.b.ii

for “television programme provider” substitute  “person” .

18.3

In subsection (4)—

18.3.a

in paragraph (c), for “televise” substitute  “show” ;

18.3.b

for paragraph (d) substitute—

18.3.b.d

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

19

19.1

In section 105 (interpretation of Part 4), subsection (1) is amended as
follows.

19.2

For the definition of “adequate alternative coverage” and “live”, substitute—

“ adequate alternative coverage ”, “adequate live coverage” and “live
coverage” are to be construed in accordance with regulations under section
104ZA (subject to section 104ZA(2));

.

19.3

In the definition of “Channel 4”, for “has” substitute  “and “Channel 5” have”
.

19.4

In the definition of “television programme provider”, for “has the meaning
given by section 99(2)” substitute  “means the BBC, S4C or any person who is
the holder of any licence under Part 1 of the 1990 Act or a digital programme
licence under Part 1 of this Act” .

19.5

Omit the definitions of “national Channel 3 service”, “regional Channel 3
service” and “television broadcasting service”.

19.6

At the appropriate place insert—

“ Channel 3 service ” means a regional or national Channel 3 service;

;

“ designated internet programme service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3A
of the Communications Act 2003 (see  section 362AA (1)  of that Act);

;

“ internet programme service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3A of the
Communications Act 2003 (see  section 362AA (10)  of that Act);

;

“ on-demand programme service ” and “non-UK on-demand programme service” have
the same meaning as in the Communications Act 2003 (see sections 368A and
368AA (1)  of that Act);

;

“ relevant service ” has the meaning given by section 98(7);

;

“ S4C Digital ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the 1990 Act (see section
71(1) of that Act);

.

19.7

After subsection (1) insert—

19.7.1A

The services that are to be taken for the purposes of this Part to be
available to members of the public include any service which—

19.7.1A.a

is available for reception by members of the public (within the meaning of
section 361 of the Communications Act 2003), or

19.7.1A.b

is available for use by members of the public (within the meaning of section
368R(4) of the Communications Act 2003).

19.7.1B

In this Part—

19.7.1B.a

a reference to the provision of a television programme service is to be read
in accordance with section 362(2) and (3) of the Communications Act 2003;

19.7.1B.b

a reference to the provision of an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-
demand programme service is to be read in accordance with section 368R(5) and
(6) of the Communications Act 2003.

19.7.1C

In this Part, the person, and the only person, who is to be treated for the
purposes of this Part as providing a relevant service of the kind described in
section 98(7)(d) is the person who has such control of the service as is
described in section 98(7)(d)(iii).

19.7.1D

For the purposes of this Part as it relates to relevant services of the kind
described in section 98(7)(d)—

19.7.1D.a

the provision of a service by the BBC does not include its provision by a BBC
company;

19.7.1D.b

the provision of a service by S4C does not include its provision by an S4C
company;

and, accordingly, control that is capable of being exercised by the BBC or S4C
over decisions by a BBC company or an S4C company about what is to be included
in a service is to be disregarded for the purposes of determining who has such
control of the service as is described in section 98 (7) (d) (iii) .

20

In section 130 (interpretation of Part 5), in subsection (1), in the
definition of “licensed service”, omit paragraph (aa).

##### Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002

21

In section 12 of the Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002 (television
and radio broadcasting), in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b) and the “and”
before it.

##### Communications Act 2003

22

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

23

In section 3 (general duties of OFCOM), in subsection (4)(a), for “the
purposes of public service television broadcasting in the United Kingdom”
substitute  “the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom (as
defined in section 264)” .

24

In section 64 (must carry obligations), omit subsection (3)(f).

25

In section 198A (C4C’s functions in relation to media content), in subsection
(3)(b), for “objectives” substitute  “requirements” .

26

In section 216 (renewal of Channel 3 and 5 licences), in subsection (6), for
“complying” substitute  “that, either on its own or together with other
arrangements, complied” .

27

Omit the italic heading before section 218.

28

In section 224 (meaning of initial expiry date), omit subsection (1)(c).

29

In the italic heading before section 225, omit “and teletext”.

30

In section 226 (application for review of financial terms in consequence of
new obligations), in subsection (1)—

30.a

after paragraph (a) insert  “or” ;

30.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “or” before it.

31

In section 227 (reviews under sections 225 and 226), in subsection (7), omit
paragraph (b) and the “and” before it.

32

32.1

Section 229 (report in anticipation of new licensing round) is amended as
follows.

32.2

In subsection (2), for “the purposes of public service television broadcasting
in the United Kingdom” substitute  “the public service remit for television in
the United Kingdom” .

32.3

In subsection (6), in the definition of “relevant licence”—

32.3.a

after paragraph (a) insert  “or” ;

32.3.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “or” before it.

33

In section 233 (services that are not television licensable content services),
in subsection (2), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” following it).

34

In section 241 (television multiplex services), omit subsection (9)(f).

35

In section 243 (powers where frequencies reserved for qualifying services),
omit subsection (7)(e).

36

36.1

Section 263 (application of regulatory regimes) is amended as follows.

36.2

In subsection (2)—

36.2.a

omit “, in relation to the licensed service,”;

36.2.b

for “that service” substitute  “that holder’s licensed service” .

36.3

In subsection (3)(a), for “4, for Channel 5 or for the public teletext
service” substitute  “4 or for Channel 5” .

37

In section 264 (OFCOM reports on the fulfilment of the public service remit)—

37.a

in subsection (9)(a), omit “or service”;

37.b

in subsection (12)—

37.b.i

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “and” ;

37.b.ii

omit paragraph (d) and the “and” before it.

38

In section 265 (public service remits of licensed providers)—

38.a

in subsection (1)—

38.a.i

omit “, and for the public teletext service,”;

38.a.ii

omit (in both places it occurs) “or service”;

38.b

omit subsections (4) and (5).

39

Omit section 268 (statement of service policy by the public teletext
provider).

40

Omit section 269 (changes of public teletext service policy).

41

41.1

Section 270 (enforcement of public service remits) is amended as follows.

41.2

In subsection (1)—

41.2.a

omit “or the public teletext provider”;

41.2.b

in paragraph (a), omit “or the public teletext service”.

41.3

In subsection (3)(b)—

41.3.a

omit “or statements of service policy”;

41.3.b

omit “or 268”.

41.4

In subsection (4)(a), omit “, or statement of service policy,”.

41.5

In subsection (6)—

41.5.a

in paragraph (a), omit “or the public teletext provider”;

41.5.b

in paragraph (b), omit “or service”.

41.6

In subsection (7)—

41.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “269” substitute  “267” ;

41.6.b

in paragraph (b)(i), for “service” substitute  “channel” .

41.7

In subsection (8)(a)—

41.7.a

for “269” substitute  “267” ;

41.7.b

for “service” substitute  “channel” .

41.8

Omit subsection (10).

42

In section 271 (power to amend public service remits), in subsection (1)(a),
omit “or for the public teletext service”.

43

In section 272 (must-offer obligations in relation to networks), omit
subsection (1)(b) (but not the “and” following it).

44

In section 273 (must-offer obligations in relation to satellite services),
omit subsection (1)(b) (but not the “and” following it).

45

In section 274 (securing reception of must-provide services in certain areas),
omit subsection (1)(b) (but not the “and” following it).

46

In section 275 (must-provide services for the purposes of section 274), omit
subsection (1)(f).

47

Omit section 276 (cooperation with the public teletext provider).

48

Omit section 284 (news provision on the public teletext service).

49

Omit section 289 (regional matters in the public teletext service).

50

Omit section 298 (conditions prohibiting interference with other services) and
the italic heading before it.

51

Omit section 300 (effects of categorisation of listed events into Group A and
Group B).

52

In section 301 (the code under section 104 of the Broadcasting Act 1996), omit
subsection (2).

53

Omit section 308 (assistance for the visually impaired with the public
teletext service).

54

In section 310 (code of practice for electronic programme guides), omit
subsection (4)(f).

55

In section 322 (supplementary powers relating to advertising), in subsection
(1)—

55.a

omit paragraph (b);

55.b

in paragraph (c), omit “other”.

56

In section 324 (setting and publication of standards), omit subsection
(12)(a)(ii) (but not the “or” following it).

57

In section 335 (conditions securing compliance with international
obligations), omit subsection (3)(d).

58

58.1

Section 351 (changes of control of Channel 3 services) is amended as follows.

58.2

In subsection (4)—

58.2.a

omit paragraph (a)(i);

58.2.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

58.2.b.aa

the extent to which the qualifying audiovisual content made available by the
provider of the service includes a range of original productions and the
duration (in total) of those productions;

;

58.2.c

in paragraph (b), for “programmes of each of those descriptions” substitute
“news programmes, current affairs programmes and original productions” .

58.3

In subsection (5)—

58.3.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

58.3.a.aa

the extent to which the qualifying audiovisual content made in the United
Kingdom that is made available by the provider of the service includes a range
of Channel 3 programmes made outside the M25 area and the duration (in total)
of those programmes;

;

58.3.b

omit paragraph (b).

58.4

In subsection (6), in paragraph (c), for the words from “for the purposes of”
to the end of the paragraph substitute  “for the purposes of networking
arrangements.”

59

59.1

Section 353 (changes of control of Channel 5) is amended as follows.

59.2

In subsection (4)—

59.2.a

omit paragraph (a)(i);

59.2.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

59.2.b.aa

the extent to which the qualifying audiovisual content made available by the
provider of Channel 5 includes a range of original productions and the
duration (in total) of those productions;

;

59.2.c

in paragraph (b), for “programmes of each of those descriptions” substitute
“news programmes, current affairs programmes and original productions” .

59.3

In subsection (5)—

59.3.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

59.3.a.a

the extent to which the qualifying audiovisual content made in the United
Kingdom that is made available by the provider of Channel 5 includes a range
of programmes made outside the M25 area and the duration (in total) of those
programmes;

;

59.3.b

omit paragraph (b).

60

60.1

Section 362 (interpretation of Part 3) is amended as follows.

60.2

In subsection (1), at the appropriate place insert—

“ audiovisual content ”, in relation to a relevant audiovisual service, has
the meaning given by section 264;

;

“ qualifying audiovisual content ” has the meaning given by  section 278B
(and references to making available qualifying audiovisual content are to be
construed in accordance with that section);

;

“ qualifying audiovisual service ” has the meaning given by  section 278B ;

;

“ relevant audiovisual service ” has the meaning given by section 264;

.

60.3

In subsection (1), omit the definitions of—

“analogue teletext service”; “the digital public teletext service”; “the
public teletext provider”; “the public teletext service”.

60.4

In subsection (2), omit paragraph (b) (public teletext service).

61

In section 405 (general interpretation), in subsection (1)—

61.a

in the definition of “programme service”, omit paragraph (b) (the public
teletext service);

61.b

omit the definition of “purposes of public service television broadcasting”;

61.c

at the appropriate place insert—

“ the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom ” has the
meaning given by section 264;

.

62

In Schedule 9 (arrangements about carrying on of C4C’s activities), in
paragraph 1 (notification of requirement to submit proposals), in sub-
paragraph (1), after paragraph (aa) (and before the “and” following it)
insert—

62.ab

as soon as practicable after the day on which  section 3  of the Media Act
2024 comes into force,

.

63

Omit Schedule 10 (licensing the public teletext service).

64

In Schedule 12 (corresponding obligations of the BBC and Welsh Authority),
omit paragraph 11 (co-operation with the public teletext provider) and the
italic heading before it.

65

In Schedule 18 (transitional provisions), in paragraph 51 (listed events
rules), omit sub-paragraphs (4) and (5).

##### Digital Economy Act 2010

66

In the Digital Economy Act 2010, omit sections 27 and 28 (public teletext
service).

  Part 2: further amendments

Section 28(2)

1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

2

In section 393 (general restrictions on disclosure of information), in
subsection (6), in paragraph (a), after “137A” insert  “,  362AG (7) ,  362AW
” .

3

In section 394 (service of notifications and other documents), in subsection
(2), in paragraph (a), after “this Act” insert  “, other than Part 3A so far
as relating to notifications by OFCOM” .

4

In section 400 (destination of fees and penalties), in subsection (1), after
paragraph (h) insert—

4.ha

an amount paid to OFCOM in respect of a penalty imposed by them under Part 3A
of this Act;

.

Chapter 2 of Part 3: minor and consequential amendments

Section 36

##### Broadcasting Act 1990

1

The Broadcasting Act 1990 is amended as follows.

2

In section 37 (announcements of programme schedules), in subsection (2)(a),
after “on S4C” insert  “Digital” .

3

3.1

Section 56 (Welsh Authority to continue as Sianel Pedwar Cymru) is amended as
follows.

3.2

In subsection (1), omit the words after paragraph (b).

3.3

In subsection (3), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

4

4.1

Section 60 (advertising on S4C) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsections (4) and (5), for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

4.3

In subsection (4)(a), after “on S4C” insert  “Digital” .

4.4

In subsection (4)(a) and (aa), after “of S4C” insert  “Digital” .

5

5.1

Section 61 (funding of Welsh Authority) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1)—

5.2.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

5.2.b

for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

5.2.c

for the words from “of—” to the end of paragraph (b) substitute  “of
fulfilling S4C’s public service remit” .

5.3

In subsection (3)—

5.3.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

5.3.b

for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

5.4

In the heading, for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

6

6.1

Section 61A (Welsh Authority public service fund) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (2)—

6.2.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

6.2.b

for “the Authority”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “S4C” ;

6.2.c

for the words from “their functions” to the end of the subsection substitute
“fulfilling S4C’s public service remit.”

6.3

In subsection (4)—

6.3.a

for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

6.3.b

for “television programme”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“audiovisual content” ;

6.3.c

for “television programme service”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“relevant audiovisual service” ;

6.3.d

for the words from “broadcast” to the end substitute  “included in a relevant
audiovisual service provided by S4C in fulfilling its public service remit.”

6.4

After subsection (4) insert—

6.4.4A

In subsection (4), “ audiovisual content ” and “ relevant audiovisual service
” have the same meaning as in Part 3 of the Communications Act 2003 (see
section 362 of that Act).

6.5

In the heading, for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

7

7.1

Section 63 (government control over S4C) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

7.3

In subsections (1), (3) and (4), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

8

8.1

Section 64 (audience research by Welsh Authority) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1)—

8.2.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

8.2.b

in paragraphs (a) and (c), after “S4C” insert  “Digital” .

8.3

In subsection (2)(a), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

8.4

In subsection (2)(b), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

8.5

In the heading, for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

9

In section 66 (requirements relating to transmission and distribution of
services), in subsection (7)—

9.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

9.b

after “S4C” insert  “Digital” ;

9.c

for “Wales” substitute  “the United Kingdom” .

10

In section 71 (interpretation of Part 1), in subsection (1), in the definition
of “S4C” and “S4C Digital”—

10.a

omit ““S4C” and”;

10.b

omit “each”.

11

In section 176 (duty to provide advance information about programmes), in the
table in subsection (7), in the entry relating to the public television
services of the Welsh Authority—

11.a

in the first column, for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

11.b

in the second column, for “The Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

12

In section 177 (orders proscribing unacceptable foreign satellite services),
in subsection (6), in the definition of “foreign satellite service”, for “the
Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

13

In section 188 (power to give broadcasting bodies etc directions relating to
international obligations), in subsection (2)(c), for “the Welsh Authority”
substitute  “S4C” .

14

In section 202 (general interpretation), in subsection (1)—

14.a

in the definition of “an S4C company”, for “the Welsh Authority”, in both
places it occurs, substitute  “S4C” ;

14.b

before that definition insert—

“S4C”, except in the phrases “S4C company”, “S4C Digital”, “S4C entity” and
“S4C subsidiary undertaking”, means the body corporate given the name S4C (or
Sianel Pedwar Cymru) by section 56(1);

.

15

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (disqualification for holding licences), in paragraphs
3(1)(a) (disqualification of publicly-funded bodies for radio service
licences) and 5(b) (disqualification of broadcasting bodies), for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

16

16.1

Schedule 6 (the Welsh Authority: supplementary provisions) is amended as
follows.

16.2

In the Schedule heading, for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

16.3

In paragraph 1(1) (S4C not exercising functions on behalf of the Crown), for
“The Welsh Authority (in this Schedule referred to as “ the Authority ”)”
substitute  “S4C” .

16.4

In paragraph 1(2) (S4C’s power to do anything which is incidental or conducive
to the carrying out of its functions), for “The Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

16.5

Omit paragraphs 2 to 8 (membership).

16.6

In paragraphs 9(1) and (2) (employees), 10 (seal), 11 (documents), 12(1), (1A)
and (4) (accounts and audit), 13 (annual reports) and 14 (advisory
committees), and in the italic heading before paragraph 9—

16.6.a

for “the Authority”, in each place it occurs;

16.6.b

for “The Authority”, in each place it occurs;

substitute “S4C”.

16.7

In paragraph 9 (employees), for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

16.7.3

If a person—

16.7.3.a

participates in a pension scheme as an employee of S4C, and

16.7.3.b

on or after ceasing to be an employee of S4C, becomes a non-executive member
of the S4C Board,

the person’s service as a non-executive member of the S4C Board may, if the
Secretary of State so determines, be treated for the purposes of the pension
scheme as if it were service as an employee of S4C.

16.8

In the italic heading before paragraph 10, for “Authority’s” substitute
“S4C’s” .

16.9

In the italic heading before paragraph 11, for “Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

16.10

In paragraphs 13(3)(b) and 14, for “the Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

##### Broadcasting Act 1996

17

The Broadcasting Act 1996 is amended as follows.

18

In section 2 (meaning of “ qualifying service ”), in subsection (2)(e)—

18.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

18.b

for “205” substitute  “ 204B ” .

19

19.1

Section 24 (digital additional services) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1)(c), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

19.3

In subsection (3A), in the definition of “public television service of the
Welsh Authority”—

19.3.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

19.3.b

in paragraph (b), for the words after “any television programme service”
substitute  “provided in digital form by S4C in fulfilling its public service
remit” .

19.4

In subsection (3A), in paragraph (e) of the definition of “relevant public
service broadcaster”, for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

20

Omit section 29(2) (application of the Broadcasting Act 1990 to S4C Digital).

21

In section 33(1)(a)(ii) and (3)(d) (review of digital television
broadcasting), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

22

In section 39 (interpretation of Part 1), in subsection (1), in the definition
of “S4C” and “S4C Digital”—

22.a

omit ““S4C” and”; and

22.b

omit “each”.

23

In section 97 (listed events)—

23.a

in subsection (2) (before its substitution by section 299(1) of the
Communications Act 2003), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

23.b

in subsection (2) (as substituted by section 299(1) of the Communications Act
2003), for  “the Welsh Authority”  substitute “S4C”.

24

In sections 99(2) (televising listed events), 103(3) (report to Secretary of
State) and 104(4)(b) (code of guidance), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

25

In section 105 (interpretation of Part 4 and supplementary provisions), in
subsection (1), omit the definition of “S4C”.

26

In section 107 (code relating to avoidance of unjust or unfair treatment or
interference with privacy), in subsection (5)(b), for “the Welsh Authority”,
in both places it occurs, substitute  “S4C” .

27

In section 130(1) (interpretation of Part 5)—

27.a

in the definition of “broadcasting body”, for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” ;

27.b

in the definition of “licensed service”, in paragraph (e), for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

##### Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002

28

In section 12(6) of the Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002 (television
and radio broadcasting), for “the Welsh Authority referred to in” substitute
“the body corporate so named by” .

##### Communications Act 2003

29

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

30

In section 12(9)(b) (OFCOM’s Content Board), for “and employees of the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “of the S4C Board and employees of S4C” .

31

In the Chapter heading of Chapter 1 of Part 3, for “the Welsh Authority”
substitute  “, S4C” .

32

32.1

In section 203 (function of OFCOM), and in its heading, for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

32.2

In the italic heading before section 203, for “The Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C (Sianel Pedwar Cymru)” .

33

33.1

Section 207 (finances) is amended as follows.

33.2

In subsection (3), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

33.3

In subsections (4) and (6), for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

33.4

In subsection (6), for “the Authority”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“S4C” .

33.5

Omit subsections (8) and (9).

33.6

In the heading, for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

34

In sections 211(1)(a) (regulation of independent television services) and
243(7)(d) (reserved frequencies), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C”
.

35

In section 264 (OFCOM reports on the fulfilment of public service remits), for
subsection (12)(b) substitute—

35.b

S4C;

.

36

In sections 277(11) (programming quotas for independent productions), 278(8)
(programming quotas for regional productions) and 285(6)(c) (code relating to
programme commissioning), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

37

In sections 303(12)(a) (code relating to provision for people with
disabilities), 305(2)(a) (relevant dates) and 324(3)(a) and (10)(c) (setting
and publication of standards), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

38

38.1

In section 338 (corresponding rules), and in its heading, for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

38.2

In the italic heading before section 338, for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

39

39.1

Section 339 (review of fulfilment of public service remits) is amended as
follows.

39.2

In subsection (1), for the words after “performance” substitute  “by S4C of
its duty to fulfil its public service remit.”

39.3

In subsections (4) and (5), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

39.4

In the heading—

39.4.a

for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

39.4.b

for “remits” substitute  “remit” .

40

In the italic heading before section 339, for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

41

41.1

Section 340 (directions to S4C to take remedial action) is amended as follows.

41.2

In subsections (1), (2), (4) and (5), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

41.3

In subsection (1)(a), for the words from “their” to the end of paragraph (a)
(but not the “and” at the end) substitute  “its duty to fulfil its public
service remit” .

41.4

In subsection (2), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

41.5

In the heading, for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

42

42.1

Section 341 (imposition of penalties) is amended as follows.

42.2

In subsections (1), (2) and (4), and in the heading, for “the Welsh Authority”
substitute  “S4C” .

42.3

In subsection (2), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

43

43.1

Section 343 (provision of information) is amended as follows.

43.2

In subsections (1) and (2), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

43.3

In the heading, for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

44

In section 347(7) (statement of charging principles), for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

45

45.1

Section 362 (interpretation of Part 3) is amended as follows.

45.2

In subsection (1)—

45.2.a

omit the definition of “S4C” and “S4C Digital”;

45.2.b

in the definition of “S4C company”—

45.2.b.i

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

45.2.b.ii

for “that Authority”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “S4C” ;

45.2.c

after the definition of “S4C company” insert—

“ S4C Digital ” means the television programme service provided by S4C in
digital form and originally known as S4C Digital but increasingly since April
2010 (date of digital switch-over in Wales) simply called S4C;

.

45.3

In subsection (3)—

45.3.a

in paragraph (c);

45.3.b

in the words after that paragraph;

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

46

In section 368R(6) (interpretation of Part 4A), for “the Welsh Authority”, in
both places it occurs, substitute  “S4C” .

47

In section 393(3)(g) (restrictions on disclosure of information), for “the
Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

48

In section 405(1) (interpretation of Act), after the definition of
“representation” insert—

“ S4C ” means the body corporate given the name S4C (or Sianel Pedwar Cymru)
by section 56(1) of the 1990 Act;

.

49

49.1

In the heading of Schedule 12 (corresponding obligations of the BBC and S4C),
for “Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

49.2

Part 2 of that Schedule (obligations of S4C) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs  50  to  71 .

50

In the heading of that Part, for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

51

51.1

Paragraph 3 (public service remits) is amended as follows.

51.2

Omit sub-paragraphs (1) to (4).

51.3

In sub-paragraph (5), for “modify sub-paragraphs (2) and (3)” substitute
“amend  section 204A  for the purpose of modifying S4C’s public service remit”
.

51.4

For sub-paragraphs (6) and (7) substitute—

51.4.6

Before making an order under sub-paragraph (5), the Secretary of State must
consult—

51.4.6.a

S4C, and

51.4.6.b

OFCOM.

51.4.7

An order under sub-paragraph (5) must not contain provision inconsistent with
a requirement that a substantial proportion of audiovisual content made
available by S4C is in Welsh.

51.4.7A

In sub-paragraph  (7)  “ audiovisual content ” has the same meaning as in
section 264.

51.4.7B

Subsection  (13)  of section 264 (interpretation of “made available”) applies
for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (7)  as it applies for the purposes of that
section.

51.5

For the italic heading before paragraph 3 substitute  “Modification of S4C’s
public service remit” .

52

52.1

Paragraph 4 (statements of programme policy) is amended as follows.

52.2

In sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) to (7), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

52.3

In sub-paragraph (2)—

52.3.a

for “the Welsh Authority’s”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “S4C’s” ;

52.3.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

52.3.b.a

S4C’s public service remit is fulfilled; and

.

52.4

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

52.4.2A

Every such statement must—

52.4.2A.a

state whether relevant audiovisual services other than S4C Digital will be
used, during the following year, to fulfil S4C’s public service remit, and

52.4.2A.b

if so, set out S4C’s proposals as to the contributions that S4C Digital and
other relevant audiovisual services will make.

53

53.1

Paragraph 5 (duties regarding arrangements with networks) is amended as
follows.

53.2

For “the Welsh Authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “S4C” .

53.3

In sub-paragraphs (3)(b) and (4), for “the Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

53.4

In sub-paragraph (7)(a), for “the Welsh Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

54

In paragraph 6 (supply of services by satellite in certain areas), for “the
Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

55

55.1

Paragraph 7 (programming quotas for independent productions) is amended as
follows.

55.2

In sub-paragraphs (4), (6), (7), (8) and (10), for “the Welsh Authority”
substitute  “S4C” .

55.3

In sub-paragraph (7)(a), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

56

56.1

Paragraph 8 (programme quotas for original productions) is amended as follows.

56.2

In sub-paragraphs (8) and (12)(a), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C”
.

56.3

In sub-paragraph (12)(b), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

57

57.1

Paragraph 9 (news and current affairs programmes) is amended as follows.

57.2

In sub-paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5)(a) and (9)(a), for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

57.3

In sub-paragraphs (5)(b) and (9)(b), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

57.4

In sub-paragraph (7)—

57.4.a

omit paragraph (a);

57.4.b

in paragraph (c)—

57.4.b.i

for “the Welsh Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” ;

57.4.b.ii

after “designated” insert  “in writing by the Secretary of State” ;

57.4.b.iii

omit the words after “this paragraph”.

58

58.1

Paragraph 10 (code relating to programme commissioning) is amended as follows.

58.2

In sub-paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (7), (8)(c) and (10), for “the Welsh
Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

58.3

In sub-paragraph (2), after “of a” insert  “television” .

58.4

In sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

58.5

In sub-paragraphs (5) and (6), for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

58.6

In sub-paragraph (6)(b), for “that Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

58.7

Omit sub-paragraph (10).

59

In paragraphs 12 (duty to observe programme standards), 13 (duty to comply
with direction about complaints procedure) and 14(1) (duty to comply with
directions about advertising), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

60

In paragraph 13, for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

61

In paragraph 14(2)(a), for “the Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

62

62.1

Paragraph 15 (OFCOM action if S4C fails to perform duties) is amended as
follows.

62.2

In sub-paragraphs (1)(a), (2), (4), (5) and (6), for “the Welsh Authority”
substitute  “S4C” .

62.3

In sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “the Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

62.4

In sub-paragraph (5), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

63

63.1

Paragraph 16 (directions with respect to advertising) is amended as follows.

63.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

63.3

In sub-paragraph (2)(d), omit “S4C or”.

64

In paragraph 17 (fairness standards), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

65

65.1

Paragraph 18 (party political broadcasts) is amended as follows.

65.2

In sub-paragraphs (1) and (5), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

65.3

In sub-paragraph (2), for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

65.4

In sub-paragraph (3), for “The Welsh Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

65.5

In sub-paragraph (6)—

65.5.a

omit paragraph (a);

65.5.b

in paragraph (c)—

65.5.b.i

for “the Welsh Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” ;

65.5.b.ii

after “designated” insert  “in writing by the Secretary of State” ;

65.5.b.iii

omit the words after “this paragraph”.

66

66.1

Paragraph 19 (publicising complaints procedures) is amended as follows.

66.2

In sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)(a), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C”
.

66.3

In sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “the Authority”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “S4C” .

67

In paragraph 20(1) (monitoring of programmes), for “the Welsh Authority”
substitute  “S4C” .

68

68.1

Paragraph 21 (compliance with international obligations) is amended as
follows.

68.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

68.3

In sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

69

69.1

Paragraph 22 (services for people with disabilities) is amended as follows.

69.2

For “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

69.3

For “the Welsh Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” .

70

70.1

Paragraph 23 (equality of opportunity) is amended as follows.

70.2

In sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and (5), for “the Welsh Authority” substitute
“S4C” .

70.3

In sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

70.4

In sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), for “The Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

71

71.1

Paragraph 24 (public services) is amended as follows.

71.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

71.2.a

for “the Welsh Authority’s” substitute  “S4C’s” ;

71.2.b

omit paragraph (a);

71.2.c

for paragraph (c) substitute—

71.2.c.c

any other relevant audiovisual service provided by S4C in fulfilling its
public service remit.

71.3

In sub-paragraph (2)—

71.3.a

for “the Welsh Authority” substitute  “S4C” ;

71.3.b

for “the Authority” substitute  “S4C” .

71.4

In the italic heading before paragraph 24, for “Welsh Authority’s” substitute
“S4C’s” .

72

In Schedule 18 (transitional provisions), omit paragraph 27 and sub- paragraph
(3) of paragraph 43.

##### Equality Act 2010

73

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 (public authorities), in the
entry for “The Welsh Authority (as defined by section 56(1) of the
Broadcasting Act 1990)”, for “The Welsh Authority (as defined” substitute
“S4C (as named” .

  Tier 1 services: Chapter to be inserted as Chapter 3 of Part 4A of the 2003
Act

Section 37(6)

  Insert the following Chapter as Chapter 3 of Part 4A of the Communications
Act 2003—       Chapter 3   Regulation of Tier 1 services     Meaning of Tier
1 service     Meaning of Tier 1 service     368HA       1     In this Act, a “
Tier 1 service ” means—     a     an on-demand programme service that falls
within  subsection (2) , and         b     an on-demand programme service, or
a non-UK on-demand programme service, that is a Tier 1 service by virtue of
regulations under  section 368HB .             2     An on-demand programme
service falls within this subsection if it is an on-demand programme service
that is being used by a public service broadcaster, other than the BBC, to
contribute to the fulfilment of its public service remit.         3     In
this section, “public service remit”—     a     in relation to S4C, has the
meaning given by  section 204A ;         b     in relation to the provider of
a Channel 3 service or Channel 5, has the meaning given by section 265(2);
c     in relation to the provider of Channel 4, has the meaning given by
section 265(3).                   Power to specify Tier 1 services etc
368HB       1     The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that an
on-demand programme service, or a non-UK on-demand programme service, is a
Tier 1 service if it is specified, or falls within a description specified, in
the regulations.         2     The Secretary of State may make regulations
under  subsection (1)  only if the Secretary of State is satisfied that it is
appropriate for the providers of the services specified, or falling within a
description specified, in the regulations to be subject to the duties imposed
on providers of Tier 1 services.         3     Before making regulations under
subsection (1)  (but after considering any report prepared by OFCOM under
subsection (5)  or  (6) ), the Secretary of State must publish on a publicly
accessible part of an official website of His Majesty’s Government a list of
the services, or descriptions, that the Secretary of State proposes to specify
in the regulations.         4     Regulations are not to be made under
subsection (1)  unless the period of five sitting days beginning with the
first sitting day after the date on which the requirement in  subsection (3)
is met in relation to the regulations has expired.         5     Before making
the first regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must—
a     request OFCOM to prepare a report on the operation of the market in the
United Kingdom for on-demand programme services and non-UK on-demand programme
services, and         b     have regard to the contents of that report.
6     Where the Secretary of State is considering whether to make a second or
subsequent set of regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State—
a     may request OFCOM to prepare a further report on the operation of the
market in the United Kingdom for on-demand programme services and non-UK on-
demand programme services, and         b     where a request is made, the
Secretary of State must have regard to the contents of the report in deciding
whether to make the regulations.             7     In preparing a report
requested under  subsection (5) (a)  or  (6) (a) , OFCOM must deal with any
matters specified by the Secretary of State in the request (as well as any
other matters that they consider appropriate).         8     For the purposes
of preparing a report requested under  subsection (5) (a)  or  (6) (a) , OFCOM
may request any person who appears to be the provider of an on-demand
programme service or a non-UK on-demand programme service to provide OFCOM
with any information relating to that service that is specified in the
request.         9     The power conferred by  subsection (8)  does not
include power to require the provision of information in respect of which a
claim to legal professional privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of
communications, could be maintained in legal proceedings.         10
Information provided in response to a request by OFCOM may be shared by OFCOM
with the Secretary of State but may not be further shared (whether by OFCOM or
the Secretary of State).         11     A request under  subsection (8)  may—
a     specify a period of time within which the information must be provided;
b     specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided.
12     A person who is requested to provide information under  subsection (8)
must comply with that request.         13     In this section “ sitting day ”
means a day on which both Houses of Parliament sit.                 Duties
relating to notification etc     Notification to OFCOM     368HC       1     A
person who provides a Tier 1 service must give OFCOM a notification (a “Tier 1
notification”) to that effect.         2     Subsection  (3)  applies where—
a     regulations are made under  section 368HB (1) , and         b     a non-
UK on-demand programme service is specified or falls within a description
specified in the regulations.             3     OFCOM must, for the purpose of
assisting with compliance with  subsection (1) , inform the provider of that
Tier 1 service of that fact.         4     A person who gives a Tier 1
notification must also notify OFCOM if the person ceases to provide a Tier 1
service.         5     A Tier 1 notification or a notification under
subsection (4)  must—     a     be sent to OFCOM in such manner as they may
require, and         b     include such information as they may require.
Lists of Tier 1 providers     368HD       1     OFCOM must establish and
maintain an up to date list of persons who have—     a     given a Tier 1
notification to OFCOM under  section 368HC (1) , and         b     not given a
further notification under  section 368HC (4) .             2     The list
must include contact details which may be used by members of the public
wishing to contact a Tier 1 service.         3     OFCOM must publish the list
on a publicly accessible part of their website.                 Application
etc of Chapter 2 to certain Tier 1 services     Application etc of Chapter 2
to certain Tier 1 services     368HE       1     Subsection  (2)  applies
where a non-UK on-demand programme service is a Tier 1 service by virtue of
regulations under  section 368HB .         2     The following provisions of
Chapter 2 apply in relation to the Tier 1 service as if any reference in those
provisions to an on-demand programme service included a reference to the Tier
1 service—     a     section 368C, so far as relating to the duties of the
appropriate regulatory authority in relation to section 368D;         b
section 368D (duties of service providers), apart from section 368D(2)(ca);
c     section 368E (harmful material);         d     section 368F
(advertising);         e     section 368FA (advertising: less healthy food and
drink);         f     section 368G (sponsorship);         g     section 368H
(prohibition of product placement and exceptions).             3     A duty or
prohibition arising by virtue of  subsection (2)  applies in relation to the
Tier 1 service only on and after the end of the grace period that applies in
relation to the Tier 1 service.         4     In  subsection (3) , “ the grace
period ”, in relation to a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1
service, means the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the
non-UK on-demand programme service became a Tier 1 service.         5
Where regulations under  section 368HB (1)  provide that a non-UK on-demand
programme service specified in the regulations is a Tier 1 service, the
regulations may also provide—     a     that subsections  (1)  and  (2)  do
not apply in relation to the service, or         b     that those subsections
apply in relation to the service as if the reference in  subsection (4)  to 12
months were a reference to such lesser period as may be specified in the
regulations.             6     Section 368D(3)(zb) applies in relation to an
on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service by virtue of  section
368HA (1) (a)  with the modification that the reference in section 368D(3)(zb)
to 60 days is to be read as a reference to 90 days.                 Standards
code for Tier 1 services     Standards code for Tier 1 services     368HF
1     OFCOM must prepare and publish a code containing standards set by them
for the content of programmes to be included in Tier 1 services.         2
The standards must be such as appear to OFCOM to be best calculated to secure
the following objectives (“the standards objectives”)—     a     that persons
under the age of 18 are protected;         b     that material likely to
encourage or incite the commission of crime or to lead to disorder is not
included in Tier 1 services;         c     that news included in those
services is presented with due impartiality;         d     that news included
in those services is reported with due accuracy;         e     that the
impartiality requirements described in  section 368HG  are met;         f
that generally accepted standards are applied to the contents of those
services so as to provide adequate protection for members of the public from
the inclusion of offensive and harmful material;         g     that the proper
degree of responsibility is exercised with respect to the content of religious
programmes included in those services.             3     The standards
included in the code to secure the objective described in  subsection (2) (g)
must, in particular, contain provision designed to secure that religious
programmes do not involve—     a     any improper exploitation of
susceptibilities of the audience for such a programme, or         b     any
abusive treatment of the religious views and beliefs of those belonging to a
particular religion or religious denomination.             4     OFCOM may
fulfil their duty to publish the code in such ways as OFCOM consider likely to
bring the code to the attention of persons who are likely to be affected by
it.         5     OFCOM—     a     must keep the code under review,         b
may from time to time revise the code, and         c     where they do so,
must publish the code as revised.             6     References in this Part to
a code under this section are to be read, in relation to times after a revised
code is published, as references to the code as revised.         7     In this
section—         “ news ” means news in whatever form it is included in a
service;           “ programme ” does not include an advertisement.
Tier 1 standards code: special impartiality requirements     368HG       1
The impartiality requirements referred to in  section 368HF (2) (e)  are—
a     the exclusion from programmes included in any Tier 1 services of all
expressions of the views or opinions of the person providing that service on—
i     matters of political or industrial controversy, or         ii
matters relating to current public policy;             b     the preservation
of due impartiality on the part of the person providing the service as
respects those matters.             2     Subsection  (1) (a)  does not
require the exclusion of expressions of views or opinions relating to the
provision of on-demand programme services or non-UK on-demand programme
services.         3     A code under  section 368HF  must make provision about
the application of the requirement in  subsection (1) (b) , including
provision about the ways in which the requirement may be met.
Tier 1 standards code: matters to be taken into account     368HH       1
In preparing or revising a code under  section 368HF , OFCOM must, in
particular and to such extent as appears to them to be relevant to securing
the standards objectives, have regard to each of the matters set out in
subsection (2) .         2     Those matters are—     a     the likely
expectation of potential audiences as to the nature of the content of
programmes included in particular Tier 1 services;         b     the degree of
harm or offence likely to be caused by the inclusion of any particular sort of
content, whether in programmes generally or in particular kinds of programmes;
c     the age of the content of particular programmes or particular kinds of
programmes included in Tier 1 services;         d     the extent to which, and
the ways in which, information about the nature of the content of particular
kinds of programmes or of particular programmes can be given in a way that
enables individuals to make choices about whether they (or others for whom
they have responsibility) view or continue to view that content;         e
the likely effect of consideration being required in order to view a
particular Tier 1 service or particular programmes included in a Tier 1
service;         f     the length of time for which particular programmes are
included in Tier 1 services;         g     the desirability of maintaining the
independence of editorial control over programme content.             3     In
preparing or revising a code under  section 368HF , OFCOM must take account of
such of the international obligations of the United Kingdom as the Secretary
of State may notify to them for the purposes of this section.         4
The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list of matters in
subsection (2) .         5     Before making regulations under  subsection (4)
, the Secretary of State must consult OFCOM.         6     A statutory
instrument containing regulations under  subsection (4)  may not be made
unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.               Tier 1 standards code:
procedural requirements     368HI       1     Before publishing a code under
section 368HF , OFCOM must consult—     a     persons appearing to OFCOM to
represent the interests of potential audiences of Tier 1 services;         b
such persons providing on-demand programme services or non-UK on-demand
programme services as OFCOM think fit; and         c     such other persons as
appear to OFCOM to have an interest in the content of the code.             2
For the purposes of the consultation, OFCOM must publish a draft of the code.
3     After considering any views expressed by those persons, OFCOM may—     a
publish the code in the terms of the draft published for the purposes of the
consultation, or         b     modify the draft and publish the code in the
terms of the draft as modified.             4     Subsections  (1)  to  (3)
apply to a revision of a code under  section 368HF  as they apply to a code.
Duties of Tier 1 providers as regards Tier 1 standards code     Duties of Tier
1 providers to comply with Tier 1 standards code     368HJ       1     A
person who provides a Tier 1 service must observe the code for the time being
published under  section 368HF .         2     The duty under  subsection (1)
applies only on and after the end of the grace period that applies in relation
to the service.         3     In  subsection (2) , “ the grace period ”, in
relation to a Tier 1 service, means the period of 12 months beginning with
whichever is the later of the following—     a     the day on which the on-
demand programme service, or non-UK on-demand programme service, became a Tier
1 service;         b     the day when the first code under  section 368HF  was
published.             4     Where regulations under  section 368HB (1)
provide that an on-demand programme service, or a non-UK on-demand programme
service, specified in the regulations is a Tier 1 service, the regulations may
also provide—     a     that subsections  (2)  and  (3)  do not apply in
relation to the service, or         b     that those subsections apply in
relation to the service as if the reference in subsection  (3)  to 12 months
were a reference to such lesser period as may be specified in the regulations.
Complaints relating to Tier 1 standards code     Complaints relating to Tier 1
standards code     368HK       1     OFCOM must establish and maintain
procedures for the handling and resolution of complaints that a person who
provides a Tier 1 service is failing, or has failed, to comply with  section
368HJ (1) .         2     A person who provides a Tier 1 service must
establish and maintain procedures for the handling and resolution of
complaints that the person is failing, or has failed, to comply with  section
368HJ (1) .                 Accessibility code for Tier 1 services
Accessibility code for Tier 1 services     368HL       1     OFCOM must
prepare and publish a code imposing requirements on providers of Tier 1
services for the purpose of ensuring that such services are accessible to
people with disabilities, including, in particular, people with disabilities
affecting their sight or hearing, or both.         2     The code must include
provision requiring providers of Tier 1 services to report annually to OFCOM
about—     a     the accessibility of their services to people with
disabilities;         b     the steps taken to secure the quality and
usability of the means by which their services are made accessible to people
with disabilities.             3     The code must include provision requiring
every provider of a Tier 1 service to ensure that adequate information about
the assistance for disabled people that is provided in relation to that
service is made available to those who are likely to want to make use of it.
4     The code must include provision requiring the provider of a Tier 1
service, from the second anniversary of the relevant date, to secure that, in
the 12 month period beginning with that second anniversary and in the
succeeding 12 month period—     a     at least 40 per cent of the total
catalogue hours of that service for that period consists of programmes that
are accompanied by subtitling;         b     at least 5 per cent of the total
catalogue hours of that service for that period consists of programmes that
are accompanied by audio-description for the blind; and         c     at least
2.5 per cent of the total catalogue hours of that service for that period
consists of programmes that are presented in, or translated into, sign
language.             5     The code must include provision requiring the
provider of a Tier 1 service, from the fourth anniversary of the relevant
date, to secure that, in the 12 month period beginning with the fourth
anniversary and in each succeeding 12 month period—     a     at least 80 per
cent of the total catalogue hours of that service for that period consists of
programmes that are accompanied by subtitling;         b     at least 10 per
cent of the total catalogue hours of that service for that period consists of
programmes that are accompanied by audio-description for the blind; and
c     at least 5 per cent of the total catalogue hours of that service for
that period consists of programmes that are presented in, or translated into,
sign language.             6     A reference in any paragraph of subsections
(4)  and  (5)  to the total catalogue hours of a Tier 1 service for a period
of time is a reference to the combined duration of the programmes available
from the service within that period, other than those programmes excluded
under  subsection (7)  in relation to the requirement in that paragraph.
7     The code must set out, in relation to each of the paragraphs of
subsections  (4)  and  (5) , the descriptions of programmes that are excluded
for the purposes of the requirement in that paragraph.       This subsection
does not restrict the provision which may be made under subsection  (8) .
8     The code may include provision under which Tier 1 services specified in
the code are wholly or partly exempted from some or all of the requirements
set out in subsections  (4)  and  (5) .         9     Provision in the code
partly exempting a Tier 1 service may, in particular, provide for the
exemption to apply in relation to particular methods, or particular
descriptions of method, by which that service is available to members of the
public.         10     Before including in the code such provision as is
described in  subsection (7)  or  (8)  in relation to a Tier 1 service, OFCOM
must have regard, in particular, to—     a     the extent of the benefit which
would be conferred if the provider of the service were to comply with the
requirements set out in subsections  (4)  and  (5) ;         b     the size of
the audience for the service;         c     the number of persons who would be
likely to benefit from compliance with those requirements and the extent of
the likely benefit for each of those persons;         d     the extent to
which persons accessing the service are resident in places outside the United
Kingdom;         e     the technical difficulty of compliance with those
requirements; and         f     the cost, in the context of the matters
mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (e) , of compliance with those requirements.
11     The requirements that may be imposed by the code include, in
particular—     a     requirements as to lesser levels of assistance that
apply before the date on which the requirements set out in  subsection (4)  or
(5)  fall to be complied with;         b     requirements as to the provision
of assistance for disabled people, or a description of disabled people, in the
case of a Tier 1 service that is exempted or partly exempted.             12
The code must also give guidance as to—     a     the extent to which Tier 1
services should promote the understanding and enjoyment by people with
disabilities (in particular, people with disabilities affecting their sight or
hearing, or both) of the programmes to be included in Tier 1 services; and
b     the means by which such understanding and enjoyment should be promoted.
13     OFCOM—     a     must keep the code under review,         b     may
from time to time revise the code, and         c     where they do so, must
publish the code as revised.             14     OFCOM must publish the code,
and every revision of it, in such manner as they consider appropriate, having
regard to the need to make the code or revision accessible to people with
disabilities, including, in particular, people with disabilities affecting
their sight or hearing, or both.         15     References in this Part to a
code under this section are to be read, in relation to times after a revised
code is published, as references to the code as revised.         16     In
this section, “ programme ” does not include an advertisement.
Meaning of “relevant date”     368HM       1     The relevant date, in
relation to a Tier 1 service, is the later of—     a     the day on which the
on-demand programme service, or non-UK on-demand programme service, became a
Tier 1 service, and         b     the day on which the first code under
section 368HL  was published.             2     OFCOM may determine that a
service provided by a person is to be treated for the purposes of  section
368HL  and this section as a continuation of a service previously provided by
that person.               Power to modify requirements in section 368HL
368HN       1     Where it appears to the Secretary of State, in the case of
Tier 1 services of a particular description, that the requirement specified in
any paragraph of  section 368HL (4)  has been or is likely to be fulfilled in
their case before the anniversary specified in  section 368HL (4) , the
Secretary of State may by regulations modify  section 368HL  so as to do one
or both of the following—     a     increase the percentage so specified in
relation to services of that description;         b     substitute the first
anniversary for the anniversary specified in  section 368HL (4)  in the case
of services of that description.             2     The Secretary of State may
by regulations modify  section 368HL  so as to do one or both of the
following—     a     substitute a later anniversary for the anniversary
specified in  section 368HL (5) ;         b     substitute a higher percentage
for the percentage for the time being specified in any paragraph of  section
368HL (5) .             3     The provision that may be made by regulations
under this section includes—     a     modifications for requiring the code to
set out additional requirements to be fulfilled once the requirements
previously required to be set out in the code have been fulfilled; and
b     savings for the requirements previously set out in the code.
4     Before making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must
consult OFCOM.         5     A statutory instrument containing regulations
under this section may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.
Tier 1 accessibility code: procedural requirements     368HO       1
Before publishing a code or a revised code under  section 368HL , OFCOM must
consult—     a     such persons appearing to OFCOM to represent the interests
of people with disabilities as OFCOM think fit;         b     such persons
providing on-demand programme services or non-UK on-demand programme services
as OFCOM think fit; and         c     such other persons as appear to OFCOM to
have an interest in the content of the code.             2     For the
purposes of the consultation, OFCOM must publish a draft of the code.
Duty to comply with Tier 1 accessibility code     368HP     A provider of a
Tier 1 service must comply with such of the requirements of the code under
section 368HL  as apply to that provider.             Reports to Secretary of
State     Reports to Secretary of State     368HQ     OFCOM may from time to
time report to the Secretary of State on any issues which—     a     have been
identified by them in the course of carrying out their functions in relation
to Tier 1 services, and         b     appear to them to raise questions of
general policy about the regulation of those services.
Application of Chapter 3     Application of Chapter 3     368HR     The duties
of providers of Tier 1 services under or by virtue of this Chapter apply in
relation to those services only so far as they are made available for use by
members of the public in the United Kingdom.

  Tier 1 services: further amendments of Part 4A of the 2003 Act

Section 37(7)

1

Part 4A of the Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

2

Before section 368I insert—

  Chapter 4

  Enforcement: general

.

3

3.1

Section 368I (enforcement of sections 368CB and 368D) is amended as follows.

3.2

For the heading substitute  “Enforcement of service providers’ principal
duties” .

3.3

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “section 368D”
insert  “, or that a provider of a non-UK on-demand programme service that is
a Tier 1 service is contravening or has contravened section 368D,” .

3.4

After subsection (1) insert—

3.4.1A

Where OFCOM (as the appropriate regulatory authority) determine that a
provider of a Tier 1 service is contravening or has contravened section 368HC,
368HJ(1), 368HK(2) or 368HP, they may do one or both of the following—

3.4.1A.a

give the provider an enforcement notice under this section;

3.4.1A.b

impose a financial penalty on the provider in accordance with section 368J.

3.5

In subsection (2)—

3.5.a

after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

3.5.b

after “section 368D” insert  “or (as the case may be)  section 368HC ,  368HJ
(1) ,  368HK (2)  or  368HP ” .

3.6

In subsection (3)—

3.6.a

after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

3.6.b

after “section 368D” insert  “or (as the case may be)  section 368HC ,  368HJ
(1) ,  368HK (2)  or  368HP ” .

3.7

In subsection (10)—

3.7.a

after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “, or a non-UK on-demand
programme service that is a Tier 1 service,” ;

3.7.b

after “subsection (1)” insert  “, (1A)” .

4

In section 368IA (enforcement of section 368E(4)), in subsection (1), in the
words before paragraph (a), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “,
or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service,” .

5

5.1

Section 368K (suspension or restriction of service for contraventions or
failures) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “an on-demand
programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a
Tier 1 service” .

5.3

After subsection (1) insert—

5.3.1A

OFCOM (as the appropriate regulatory authority) must serve a notice under
subsection (2) on a provider of a Tier 1 service if they are satisfied—

5.3.1A.a

that the provider is in contravention of  section 368HC ,  368HJ (1) ,  368HK
(2)  or  368HP ,

5.3.1A.b

that the imposition of one or more financial penalties or enforcement
notifications under section 368I has not resulted in the remedying of the
contravention, and

5.3.1A.c

that the giving of a direction under this section would be appropriate and
proportionate to the seriousness of the contravention.

5.4

In subsection (2)—

5.4.a

in paragraph (a), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

5.4.b

in paragraph (b), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

5.4.c

in paragraph (c), after “subsection (1)(a)” insert  “or (1A)(a)” .

5.5

In subsection (3)—

5.5.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “subsection (1)(c)” insert  “or
(1A)(c)” ;

5.5.b

in paragraph (a), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK
on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

6

6.1

Section 368L (suspension or restriction of service for inciting crime or
disorder) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “an on-demand
programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a
Tier 1 service” .

6.3

In subsection (3), in paragraph (a), after “an on-demand programme service”
insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

6.4

In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), after “an on-demand programme service”
insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

7

7.1

Section 368M (supplementary provisions about directions) is amended as
follows.

7.2

In subsection (2), after “any on-demand programme service” insert  “, or to
any non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service,” .

7.3

After subsection (2) insert—

7.3.2A

A direction has effect in relation to a non-UK on-demand programme service
that is a Tier 1 service only so far as the service is made available for use
by members of the public in the United Kingdom.

8

In section 368N (enforcement of directions under section 368K or 368L), in
subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “an on-demand
programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a
Tier 1 service” .

9

Before section 368NA insert—

  Chapter 5

  Supplementary

.

10

10.1

Section 368NA (fees) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (2), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK
on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

10.3

After subsection (8) insert—

10.3.8A

The authority may also repay some or all of a fee paid to them by a person
under subsection (2) if—

10.3.8A.a

the person has ceased to provide a Tier 1 service at some time during the
period to which the fee relates,

10.3.8A.b

the Tier 1 service in question was a non-UK on-demand programme service,

10.3.8A.c

the person gave a notification under section 368HC(4) that the person had
ceased to provide the Tier 1 service, and

10.3.8A.d

the person did not cease to provide the Tier 1 service following a direction
given by the appropriate regulatory authority under section 368K or 368L.

10.3.8B

The authority may repay some of a fee paid to them by a person under
subsection (2) if—

10.3.8B.a

the person has ceased to provide a Tier 1 service at some time during the
period to which the fee relates,

10.3.8B.b

the Tier 1 service in question was an on-demand programme service that the
person continues to provide, and

10.3.8B.c

the person gave a notification under  section 368HC (4)  that the person had
ceased to provide the Tier 1 service.

11

11.1

For section 368O (power to demand information) substitute—

########## Power to require information

11.1.368O

11.1.368O.1

The appropriate regulatory authority may by notice require a person within
subsection (5)  to provide them with any information that they require for the
purpose of carrying out their functions under this Part.

11.1.368O.2

OFCOM may by notice require a person within  subsection (5)  to provide them
with any information that they require for the purpose of carrying out their
functions under Part 5 of the 1996 Act, so far as relating to Tier 1 services.

11.1.368O.3

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  or  (2)  includes power to require a
person within  subsection (5)  to obtain or generate information.

11.1.368O.4

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  or  (2)  must be exercised in a way
that is proportionate to the use to which the information is to be put by
OFCOM.

11.1.368O.5

The persons within this subsection are—

11.1.368O.5.a

a provider of an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-demand programme
service;

11.1.368O.5.b

a person who was a provider of an on-demand programme service or a non-UK on-
demand programme service at a time to which the required information relates;

11.1.368O.5.c

a person who is not within  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  but who appears to the
appropriate regulatory authority to have, or to be able to obtain or generate,
information required by them as mentioned in  subsection (1) .

11.1.368O.6

The information that the appropriate regulatory authority may require under
subsection (1)  includes, in particular, information that they require for any
one or more of the following purposes—

11.1.368O.6.a

the purpose of determining whether a person is a provider of an on-demand
programme service or a non-UK on-demand programme service;

11.1.368O.6.b

the purpose of determining whether a person is a provider of a Tier 1 service;

11.1.368O.6.c

the purpose of determining whether there has been any change of circumstances
that may affect a determination mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or  (b) ;

11.1.368O.6.d

the purpose of assessing compliance with any duty imposed on a provider of an
on-demand programme service by or by virtue of Chapter 2;

11.1.368O.6.e

the purpose of assessing compliance with any duty imposed on a provider of a
Tier 1 service by or by virtue of Chapter 3;

11.1.368O.6.f

the purpose of an investigation being carried out by the authority to
determine whether a contravention of section 368BA, 368CB or 368D has occurred
or is occurring;

11.1.368O.6.g

the purpose of an investigation being carried out by the authority to
determine whether there has been a failure to take an appropriate measure for
the purpose mentioned in section 368E(4) or a failure to implement such a
measure effectively;

11.1.368O.6.h

the purpose of an investigation being carried out by the authority to
determine whether a contravention of  section 368HC ,  368HJ (1) ,  368HK (2)
or  368HP  has occurred or is occurring;

11.1.368O.6.i

the purpose of ascertaining or calculating applicable qualifying revenue under
section 368J;

11.1.368O.6.j

the purpose of determining the appropriate fee that a provider is required to
pay under section 368NA.

11.1.368O.7

A notice under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  (an “information notice”) must—

11.1.368O.7.a

specify or describe the information to be provided,

11.1.368O.7.b

specify why the information is required,

11.1.368O.7.c

specify the form and manner in which the information must be provided, and

11.1.368O.7.d

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

11.1.368O.8

An information notice must specify when the information must be provided which
may be—

11.1.368O.8.a

on or by a specified date, or

11.1.368O.8.b

within a specified period.

11.1.368O.9

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  or  (2)  does not include power to
require the provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal
professional privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications,
could be maintained in legal proceedings.

11.1.368O.10

A person to whom an information notice is given must provide the information
in accordance with any requirements included in the notice (subject to
subsection (11) ).

11.1.368O.11

The duty under  subsection (10)  does not require a disclosure of information
if that disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but, in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, that duty is to be taken into
account).

11.1.368O.12

In this section—

      “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ information ”
includes technical information and material such as videos, audiovisual
commercial communications, screenshots and archived material.

########## Information powers: supplementary

11.1.368OZA

11.1.368OZA.1

Any power to require the provision of information under  section 368HB ,  368O
or  368OB  includes power to require the provision of information held outside
the United Kingdom.

11.1.368OZA.2

In the following provisions of this section, a “ Part 4A information duty ”
means—

11.1.368OZA.2.a

the duty under  section 368HB (12) ;

11.1.368OZA.2.b

the duty under  section 368O (10) ;

11.1.368OZA.2.c

the duty under  section 368OB (9) .

11.1.368OZA.3

Sections 368I and 368K apply in relation to a failure by a provider of an on-
demand programme service, or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a
Tier 1 service, to comply with a Part 4A information duty as if that failure
were a contravention of section 368D.

11.1.368OZA.4

Section 368I applies in relation to a failure by a person other than one
described in  subsection (3)  to comply with a Part 4A information duty
falling within subsection (2)(a) or (b) as if that failure were a
contravention of section 368D.

11.1.368OZA.5

Where section 368I applies in accordance with  subsection (4) —

11.1.368OZA.5.a

references in section 368I or 368J to a provider of an on-demand programme
service are to be read as references to the person who has failed to comply
with the Part 4A information duty, and

11.1.368OZA.5.b

section 368J(1) applies as if, for the words “5 per cent. of the provider’s
applicable qualifying revenue or £250,000, whichever is the greater amount”,
there were substituted  “£250,000” .

11.2

In consequence of the amendment made by  sub-paragraph (1) , in section 368D,
in subsection (3)(b), for “ section 368O (2)  or  (3) ” substitute  “ section
368O (2)  or  (6) ” .

12

12.1

Section 368R (interpretation of Part 4A) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1), in the definition of “children’s programme”, in paragraph
(a), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand
programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

12.3

In subsection (2), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK
on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

12.4

In subsection (3), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK
on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

12.5

In subsection (5), after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK
on-demand programme service” .

  Tier 1 services: amendments of other legislation

Section 37(8)

1

In section 93 of the Representation of the People Act 1983 (broadcasting of
local items during election period), in subsection (6), in the definition of
“relevant services”, in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “or services that
are Tier 1 services within the meaning given by  section 368HA  of the
Communications Act 2003” .

2

2.1

The Broadcasting Act 1996 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 107 (preparation by OFCOM of code relating to avoidance of unjust
or unfair treatment etc)—

2.2.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (a), for “this section” substitute
“subsection (5)” ;

2.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

2.2.b.1A

OFCOM must also draw up, and from time to time review, a code giving guidance
as to the principles to be observed, and practices to be followed, in
connection with the avoidance of—

2.2.b.1A.a

unjust or unfair treatment in any programme that is included in a Tier 1
service (within the meaning given by  section 368HA  of the Communications Act
2003), or

2.2.b.1A.b

unwarranted infringement of privacy in, or in connection with the obtaining of
material included in, such programmes.

2.2.b.1B

Subsection  (1A)  applies in relation to a Tier 1 service only so far as the
service is made available for use by members of the public in the United
Kingdom.

;

2.2.c

in subsection (3), for “the code” substitute  “a code under this section” ;

2.2.d

in subsection (4), for “the code” substitute  “a code under this section” ;

2.2.e

in subsection (5), for “This section” substitute  “This subsection” .

2.3

In section 110 (general functions of OFCOM in relation to complaints), in
subsection (3), for “the code” substitute  “the codes” .

2.4

In section 111 (complaints of unfair treatment etc)—

2.4.a

in subsection (4), after “in a licensed service” insert  “or a Tier 1 service”
;

2.4.b

after subsection (4) insert—

2.4.b.4A

OFCOM must not entertain, or proceed with the consideration of, a fairness
complaint relating to the inclusion of a programme in a Tier 1 service unless
it appears to them that the programme—

2.4.b.4A.a

was first included in the service after the end of the grace period, or

2.4.b.4A.b

if first included before then, either remained included or was again included
after the end of that period.

2.4.b.4B

In subsection  (4A) , “ the grace period ”, in relation to a Tier 1 service,
means the period of 12 months beginning with whichever is the later of the
following—

2.4.b.4B.a

the day on which the on-demand programme service, or non-UK on-demand
programme service, became a Tier 1 service;

2.4.b.4B.b

the day when the first code under section 107(1A) was published.

2.4.b.4C

Where regulations under  section 368HB (1)  of the Communications Act 2003
provide that an on-demand programme service, or a non-UK on-demand programme
service, specified in the regulations is a Tier 1 service, the regulations may
also provide—

2.4.b.4C.a

that subsections  (4A)  and  (4B)  do not apply in relation to the service, or

2.4.b.4C.b

that those subsections apply in relation to the service as if the reference in
subsection  (4B)  to 12 months were a reference to such lesser period as may
be specified in the regulations.

;

2.4.c

in subsection (5), after “in a licensed service” insert  “or a Tier 1 service”
;

2.4.d

in subsection (6), after “in a licensed service” insert  “or a Tier 1 service”
.

2.5

In section 115 (consideration of fairness complaints), in subsection (9)—

2.5.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.5.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

2.5.b.c

in a case where the relevant programme was included in a Tier 1 service, the
person who provides that service.

2.6

In section 119 (publication of OFCOM’s findings)—

2.6.a

after subsection (7C) insert—

2.6.a.7D

Where the relevant person is a provider of a Tier 1 service, the following
provisions of the Communications Act 2003 apply in relation to a contravention
of the duty under subsection (6) as they apply in relation to a contravention
of the duty under  section 368HJ (1)  of that Act—

2.6.a.7D.a

section 368I(1A)(b) (power to impose a financial penalty in accordance with
section 368J) and section 368J;

2.6.a.7D.b

section 368K (suspension or restriction of services).

;

2.6.b

in subsection (8), in paragraph (c), for the words from “by a broadcasting
body” to “licensed service” substitute  “by a relevant person” ;

2.6.c

in subsection (11A), omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.6.d

in that subsection, at the end of paragraph (b) insert

; and

2.6.d.c

in a case where the relevant programme was included in a Tier 1 service, the
person who provides that service.

2.7

In section 120 (reports on action taken voluntarily in response to findings on
complaints)—

2.7.a

after subsection (3) insert—

2.7.a.3A

Where the relevant programme was included in a Tier 1 service, the provider of
that service shall send to OFCOM a report of any supplementary action taken
by—

2.7.a.3A.a

the provider, or

2.7.a.3A.b

any other person appearing to the provider to be responsible for the making or
provision of the relevant programme.

;

2.7.b

in subsection (4), for “or (3)” substitute  “, (3) or (3A)” .

2.8

In section 130 (interpretation of Part 5), in subsection (1), insert at the
appropriate place—

      “ Tier 1 service ” has the same meaning as in the Communications Act
2003 (see  section 368HA  of that Act);

.

3

3.1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 361 (meaning of “ available for reception by members of the public
”), in subsection (2), at the end insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme
service that is a Tier 1 service (see  section 368HA )” .

3.3

In section 368Z14 (prohibition of paid-for advertising of less healthy food
and drink), in subsection (3)(b)—

3.3.a

after “in on-demand programme services” insert  “or in non-UK on-demand
programme services that are Tier 1 services” ;

3.3.b

in the words in brackets, for “section 368FA” substitute  “sections 368FA and
368HE (2) (e) ” .

3.4

In section 405 (general interpretation), in subsection (1), insert at the
appropriate places—

      “ non-UK on-demand programme service ” has the meaning given by section
368AA(1);

;

      “ Tier 1 service ” has the meaning given by  section 368HA ;

.

3.5

In Schedule 11A (restrictions on product placement), in paragraph 3(2)(a),
after “an on-demand programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand
programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

4

4.1

Section 9A of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 (notice to satellite uplinkers)
is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), after “an on-demand
programme service” insert  “, or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is
a Tier 1 service,” .

4.3

In subsection (6)—

4.3.a

in the definition of “on-demand programme service”, after “on-demand programme
service” insert  “, “non-UK on-demand programme service” and “Tier 1 service”
each” ;

4.3.b

in the words in brackets, for “section 368A” substitute  “sections 368A,
368AA  and  368HA ” .

5

5.1

The Online Safety Act 2023 is amended as follows.

5.2

In section 80 (scope of duties about regulated provider pornographic content)—

5.2.a

in subsection (6)—

5.2.a.i

after “programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand programme service
that is a Tier 1 service” ;

5.2.a.ii

omit “within the meaning of section 368A of the Communications Act”;

5.2.b

after subsection (6) insert—

5.2.b.6A

In subsection (6), “ on-demand programme service ”, “ non-UK on-demand
programme service ” and “ Tier 1 service ” have the same meaning as in the
Communications Act (see sections 368A,  368AA  and  368HA  of that Act).

5.3

In Schedule 9 (certain internet services not subject to duties relating to
regulated provider pornographic content)—

5.3.a

in the italic heading before paragraph 5, after “services” insert  “and non-UK
on-demand programme services that are Tier 1 services” ;

5.3.b

in paragraph 5 (on-demand programme services (entire internet service))—

5.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand
programme service that is a Tier 1 service” ;

5.3.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “has” substitute  “, “non-UK on-demand programme
service” and “Tier 1 service” have” ;

5.3.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (2), for “section 368A” substitute  “sections 368A,  368AA
and  368HA ” ;

5.3.c

in the italic heading before paragraph 6, after “services” insert  “and non-UK
on-demand programme services that are Tier 1 services” ;

5.3.d

in paragraph 6 (on-demand programme services (part of internet service))—

5.3.d.i

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), after “programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-
demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service” ;

5.3.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (3), after “programme service” insert  “or a non-UK on-demand
programme service that is a Tier 1 service” .

  Other amendments of Part 4A of the 2003 Act

Section 40

1

Part 4A of the Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

2

In section 368BZA (list of providers), in subsection (1), for “providing an
on-demand programme service” substitute

who have—

2.a

given a notification to OFCOM under section 368BA(1) of their intention to
provide an on-demand programme service, and

2.b

not given a further notification under section 368BA(2)(b) of their intention
to cease to provide it

.

3

In section 368BB (enforcement of section 368BA), after subsection (6) insert—

3.7

Subsection (6) applies whether or not the provider is in the United Kingdom.

4

Omit the cross-heading preceding section 368BC.

5

5.1

Omit sections 368BC and 368BD (accessibility for people with disabilities).

5.2

In consequence of the amendment made by sub-paragraph (1), in section 402
(power of Secretary of State to make orders and regulations), in subsection
(2)(a), omit “or regulations under section 368BC”.

6

Omit section 368CA (code on accessibility for people with disabilities).

7

In section 368D (duties of service providers), in subsection (3)(zb), for
“forty- two days” substitute  “60 days” .

8

In section 368I (enforcement of sections 368CB and 368D), after subsection (8)
insert—

8.8A

Subsection (8) applies whether or not the provider is in the United Kingdom.

9

In section 368IA (enforcement of section 368E(4)), after subsection (8)
insert—

9.8A

Subsection (8) applies whether or not the person is in the United Kingdom.

10

In section 368J (financial penalties), in subsection (1), omit “, 368BD”.

11

In section 368K (suspension or restriction of service for contraventions or
failures), in subsection (1)—

11.a

in paragraph (a), omit “, or of regulations under section 368BC”;

11.b

in paragraph (b), omit “, 368BD”.

12

12.1

Before section 368R insert—

########## Service of notices by OFCOM

12.1.368QA

Section  362AZ10  (notices) applies in relation to a notice that may or must
be given by OFCOM under any provision of this Part as it applies in relation
to a notice that may or must be given by them under any provision of Part 3A.

12.2

In consequence of the amendment made by  sub-paragraph (1) , in section 394
(service of notifications and other documents), in subsection (2)(a) (as
amended by  paragraph 3  of  Schedule 3  and  paragraph 3  of  Schedule 9 ),
after “Part 3B” insert  “or Part 4A” .

  Part 6: further amendments

Section 48(2)

1

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

2

In section 393 (general restrictions on disclosure of information), in
subsection (6), in paragraph (a), after “ 362AW ” (inserted by  paragraph 2
of  Schedule 3 ) insert  “,  362BC (6) ” .

3

In section 394 (service of notifications and other documents), in subsection
(2)(a), after “ Part 3A ” (inserted by  paragraph 3  of  Schedule 3 ) insert
“, Part 3B” .

4

In section 400 (destination of fees and penalties), in subsection (1), in
paragraph (ha)  (inserted by  paragraph 4  of  Schedule 3 ), after “3A” insert
“or 3B” .

  Schedule to be inserted as Schedule 16A to the 2003 Act

Section 49(3)

  After Schedule 16 to the Communications Act 2003 insert—       Schedule 16A
Penalties imposed by OFCOM under Parts 3A and 3B     Section 392A
Interpretation     1     References in this Schedule to a penalty are to—
a     a penalty imposed by a confirmation decision (see  sections 362AZ1 (8)
and  362BS (8) );         b     a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under
section 362AZ4 (2)  or  362BV (2) ;         c     a penalty imposed by a
penalty notice under  section 362AZ7 (6)  or  362BY (6) .               Amount
of penalties: principles     2       1     In determining the amount of a
penalty to be imposed on a person, OFCOM must, in particular, take into
account—     a     any representations made, and evidence provided, by the
person, and         b     the effects of the failure or failures in respect of
which the penalty is imposed.             2     In the case of a penalty
imposed by a confirmation decision, OFCOM must also take into account any
representations made, and evidence provided, by any other person to whom the
provisional notice of contravention relating to the same matter was given.
3     OFCOM must also take into account—     a     in the case of a penalty
imposed by a confirmation decision, any steps taken by the person towards—
i     complying with the duty or duties specified in the provisional notice of
contravention given to the person, or         ii     remedying the failure to
comply with that duty or those duties;             b     in the case of a
penalty imposed by a penalty notice, any steps taken by the person towards—
i     complying with the duty or duties specified in the confirmation decision
given to the person, or         ii     remedying the failure to comply with
that duty or those duties.                 4     A penalty must be of an
amount that OFCOM consider to be—     a     appropriate, and         b
proportionate to the failure or failures in respect of which it is imposed.
5     See also section 392 (which requires OFCOM to produce guidelines about
their determination of penalties that they impose).               Maximum
amount of penalties     3       1     Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies where—     a
a penalty is imposed on a person in respect of a regulated television
selection service that is or was at any time provided by that person,
b     a penalty is imposed on a person other than the BBC or S4C in respect of
a designated internet programme service that is or was at any time provided by
that person,         c     a penalty is imposed on a person in respect of a
designated radio selection service that is or was at any time provided by that
person, or         d     a penalty is imposed on a person other than the BBC
in respect of a relevant internet radio service that is or was at any time
provided by that person,       and the person upon whom the penalty is imposed
has an accounting period.         2     The maximum amount of the penalty that
may be imposed is whichever is the greater of—     a     £250,000, and
b     5% of the person’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the person’s most
recent complete accounting period.             3     In any case other than
that described in sub-paragraph  (1) , the maximum amount of the penalty that
may be imposed is £250,000.         4     If (in a case described in sub-
paragraph  (1) ) the first accounting period of the person has not yet ended,
sub-paragraph (2) (b)  is to be read as referring to 5% of the amount that
OFCOM estimate to be the person’s likely qualifying worldwide revenue for that
period.         5     If the duration of the accounting period by reference to
which an amount of qualifying worldwide revenue is calculated is less than a
year, the amount mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (b)  is to be increased
proportionately.         6     If the duration of the accounting period by
reference to which an amount of qualifying worldwide revenue is calculated is
more than a year, the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) (b)  is to be
decreased proportionately.         7     The amount of a person’s qualifying
worldwide revenue for an accounting period is, in the event of a disagreement
between the person and OFCOM, the amount determined by OFCOM.         8     In
this paragraph, “ accounting period ”, in relation to a person, means a period
in respect of which accounts are prepared in relation to that person or, where
that person is an individual, in respect of that individual’s business.
Maximum amount of penalties: group of entities     4       1     This
paragraph contains modifications of  paragraph 3  where, in accordance with
Schedule 16B , two or more entities are jointly and severally liable for a
penalty.         2     Sub-paragraphs  (3)  to  (6)  of this paragraph apply
instead of  paragraph 3 (1)  to  (4) .         3     If the entities do not
include the BBC or S4C, the maximum amount of the penalty for which the
entities are liable is whichever is the greater of—     a     £250,000, and
b     5% of the qualifying worldwide revenue of the group of entities that
consists of—     i     the entity to which the confirmation decision or the
penalty notice relates (“entity E”), and         ii     every other entity
which (at the time the confirmation decision or the penalty notice is given)
is a group undertaking in relation to entity E.                 4     In any
case other than that described in  sub-paragraph (3) , the maximum amount of
the penalty for which the entities are liable is £250,000.         5     In
sub-paragraph (3) (b) , the reference to the qualifying worldwide revenue of a
group of entities is to—     a     the amount of the group’s qualifying
worldwide revenue for the most recent complete accounting period of the
entities liable for the penalty, or         b     if the first accounting
period of the entities liable for the penalty has not yet ended, the amount
that OFCOM estimate to be the group’s likely qualifying worldwide revenue for
that period.             6     In a case where the accounting periods of the
entities liable for the penalty are different—     a     the reference in
sub-paragraph (5) (a)  to the accounting period of the entities is to be read
as a reference to the accounting period of any of the entities (at OFCOM’s
discretion), and         b     sub-paragraph  (5) (b)  is to apply as if—
i     for “the first accounting period of the entities” there were substituted
“the first accounting period of all the entities” , and         ii     for
“that period” there were substituted  “the accounting period of any of the
entities (at OFCOM’s discretion)” .                 7     Sub-paragraphs  (5)
to  (7)  of  paragraph 3  are to be read with necessary modifications for the
purposes of this paragraph.         8     In this paragraph—         “
accounting period ”, in relation to an entity, means a period in respect of
which accounts are prepared in relation to that entity;           “ group
undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of the Companies Act
2006.               9     For the purposes of this paragraph, sections 1161(5)
and 1162 of, and Schedule 7 to, the Companies Act 2006—     a     are to apply
in relation to an entity which is not an undertaking (as defined in section
1161(1) of that Act) as they apply in relation to an undertaking, and
b     are to be read with any necessary modifications if applied to an entity
formed under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom.
Power to amend paragraphs  3  and  4     5       1     The Secretary of State
may by regulations amend any of the following provisions of this Schedule so
as to substitute a different amount or a different percentage for the amount
or percentage for the time being specified in that provision—     a
paragraph 3 (2) (a) ;         b     paragraph 3 (2) (b) ;         c
paragraph 3 (3) ;         d     paragraph 3 (4) ;         e     paragraph 4
(3) (a) ;         f     paragraph 4 (3) (b) ;         g     paragraph 4 (4) .
2     A statutory instrument containing regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)
may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.               Recovery
of penalties     6       1     In England and Wales, a penalty is recoverable—
a     if the county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of
that court;         b     if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable
under an order of that court.             2     In Scotland, a penalty may be
enforced in the same manner as an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a
warrant for execution issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in
Scotland.         3     In Northern Ireland, a penalty is recoverable—     a
if a county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;         b     if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under
an order of that court.                   Qualifying worldwide revenue     7
1     For the purposes of this Schedule, OFCOM must produce a statement giving
information about the amounts which it does, or does not, regard as comprising
a person’s “qualifying worldwide revenue”.         2     The statement must
include provision about the application of that term to a group of entities
for the purposes of  paragraph 4  of this Schedule.         3     The
statement may make different provision in relation to different kinds of
regulated television selection services, designated internet programme
services, designated radio selection services and relevant internet radio
services.         4     Before producing the statement (including a revised or
replacement statement), OFCOM must consult—     a     the Secretary of State,
b     the Treasury, and         c     such other persons as OFCOM consider
appropriate.             5     OFCOM must keep the statement under review.
6     OFCOM must publish the statement (and any revised or replacement
statement).         7     OFCOM must send a copy of the statement (and any
revised or replacement statement) to the Secretary of State and the Secretary
of State must lay it before Parliament.               Interpretation     8
In this Schedule—         “ designated internet programme service ” has the
same meaning as in Part 3A (and a reference to providing an internet programme
service is to be construed in accordance with  section 362AZ12 (2)  to  (5) );
“ designated radio selection service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3B;
“ regulated television selection service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3A;
“ relevant internet radio service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3B.

  Schedule to be inserted as Schedule 16B to the 2003 Act

Section 49(5)

  After  Schedule 16A  to the Communications Act 2003 (as inserted by
Schedule 10 ) insert—       Schedule 16B     Parts 3A and 3B: liability of
parent entities etc     Section 392B       Interpretation     1     In this
Schedule—         “ confirmation decision ” means a notice under  section
362AZ1  or  362BS ;           “ designated internet programme service ” has
the same meaning as in Part 3A (and a reference to providing an internet
programme service is to be construed in accordance with  section 362AZ12 (2)
to  (5) );           “ designated radio selection service ” has the same
meaning as in Part 3B;           “ fellow subsidiary undertaking ” has the
meaning given by section 1161(4) of the Companies Act 2006;           “ parent
undertaking ” and “ subsidiary undertaking ” are to be read in accordance with
section 1162 of that Act;           “ penalty notice ” means a notice under
section 362AZ4 ,  362AZ7 (6) ,  362BV  or  362BY (6) ;           “ provisional
notice of contravention ” means a notice under  section 362AZ  or  362BR ;
“ regulated television selection service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3A;
“ relevant internet radio service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3B.
Joint provisional notices of contravention     2       1     This paragraph
applies where—     a     OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds for giving
a person a provisional notice of contravention in respect of—     i     a
regulated television selection service that is or was at any time provided by
that person,         ii     a designated internet programme service that is or
was at any time provided by that person,         iii     a designated radio
selection service that is or was at any time provided by that person, or
iv     a relevant internet radio service that is or was at any time provided
by that person, and             b     that person is an entity (“ E ”).
2     If there is an entity which is a parent undertaking in relation to E,
the provisional notice of contravention may be given—     a     to E alone, or
b     jointly to E and to an entity which is a parent undertaking in relation
to E.             3     If there is an entity which is a subsidiary
undertaking in relation to E, the provisional notice of contravention may be
given—     a     to E alone, or         b     jointly to E and to an entity
which is a subsidiary undertaking in relation to E.             4     If E is
a subsidiary undertaking and there is an entity which is a fellow subsidiary
undertaking in relation to E, the provisional notice of contravention may be
given—     a     to E alone, or         b     jointly to E and to an entity
that is a fellow subsidiary undertaking in relation to E.             5     If
an individual or individuals control E, the provisional notice of
contravention may be given—     a     to E alone, or         b     jointly to
E and to the individual or individuals who control E.             6     For
the purposes of  sub-paragraph (5) , an individual or individuals are to be
taken to control E if that individual or those individuals would, if they were
an undertaking, be a parent undertaking in relation to E within the meaning of
section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of meeting the condition in
subsection (2)(a), (b), (c) or (d) or (4)(a) of that section.         7     If
a provisional notice of contravention is given jointly as mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (2) (b) ,  (3) (b) ,  (4) (b)  or  (5) (b) , the statement under
section  362AZ (6) (a)  or (as the case may be)  362BR (6) (a)  must include,
among the matters about which representations may be made to OFCOM, the matter
of whether joint and several liability would be appropriate.
Liability of parent entities for failures by subsidiary entities     3       1
This paragraph applies where—     a     OFCOM are satisfied that there are
grounds for giving a person—     i     a confirmation decision which requires
the person to take steps or imposes a penalty (or both), or         ii     a
penalty notice,       in respect of a service of a type specified in  sub-
paragraph (2)  that is or was at any time provided by the person,         b
the person is an entity (“ E ”), and         c     there is another entity
which is a parent undertaking in relation to E (a “parent entity”).
2     The types of service referred to in  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  are—     a
a regulated television selection service;         b     a designated internet
programme service;         c     a designated radio selection service;
d     a relevant internet radio service.             3     The confirmation
decision or penalty notice may be given—     a     to E alone, or         b
jointly to E and to a parent entity.             4     Before giving a penalty
notice to a parent entity, or giving a confirmation decision to a parent
entity which was not previously given a provisional notice of contravention
relating to the same matter, OFCOM must give that entity an opportunity to
make representations to OFCOM about—     a     the matters contained in the
penalty notice or confirmation decision, and         b     whether joint and
several liability would be appropriate.             5     OFCOM may not give a
confirmation decision or a penalty notice to a parent entity (“ P ”) if—     a
P meets the condition in section 1162(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 in
relation to E, and         b     P makes representations to OFCOM, in
pursuance of  paragraph 2 (7)  or  sub-paragraph (4) , that satisfy OFCOM that
P does not meet any condition in section 1162(2)(b), (c) or (d) or (4) of that
Act in relation to E.             6     If a confirmation decision or a
penalty notice is given to entities jointly under  sub-paragraph (3) (b) ,
those entities are jointly and severally liable to comply with the
requirements or (as the case may be) pay the penalty imposed by the decision
or notice.         7     See also  paragraph 4  of  Schedule 16A .
Liability of subsidiary entities for failures by parent entities     4       1
This paragraph applies where—     a     OFCOM are satisfied that there are
grounds for giving a person—     i     a confirmation decision which requires
the person to take steps or imposes a penalty (or both), or         ii     a
penalty notice,       in respect of a service of a type specified in  sub-
paragraph (2)  that is or was at any time provided by the person,         b
the person is an entity (“ E ”),         c     there is another entity which
is a subsidiary undertaking in relation to E (a “subsidiary entity”), and
d     OFCOM are satisfied that the other entity’s acts or omissions
contributed to the failure to which the confirmation decision or penalty
notice relates.             2     The types of service referred to in  sub-
paragraph (1) (a)  are—     a     a regulated television selection service;
b     a designated internet programme service;         c     a designated
radio selection service;         d     a relevant internet radio service.
3     The confirmation decision or penalty notice may be given—     a     to E
alone, or         b     jointly to E and to a subsidiary entity.             4
Before giving a penalty notice to a subsidiary entity, or giving a
confirmation decision to a subsidiary entity which was not previously given a
provisional notice of contravention relating to the same matter, OFCOM must
give that entity an opportunity to make representations to OFCOM about—     a
the matters contained in the penalty notice or the confirmation decision, and
b     whether joint and several liability would be appropriate.             5
If a confirmation decision or penalty notice is given to entities jointly
under  sub-paragraph (3) (b) , those entities are jointly and severally liable
to comply with the requirements or (as the case may be) pay the penalty
imposed by the decision or notice.         6     See also  paragraph 4  of
Schedule 16A .               Liability of fellow subsidiary entities for
failures by subsidiary entities     5       1     This paragraph applies
where—     a     OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds for giving a
person—     i     a confirmation decision which requires the person to take
steps or imposes a penalty (or both), or         ii     a penalty notice,
in respect of a service of a type specified in  sub-paragraph (2)  that is or
was at any time provided by the person,         b     the person is an entity
(“ E ”),         c     E is a subsidiary undertaking,         d     there is
another entity which is a fellow subsidiary undertaking in relation to E (a
“fellow subsidiary entity”), and         e     OFCOM are satisfied that the
acts or omissions of the fellow subsidiary entity contributed to the failure
to which the confirmation decision or penalty notice relates.             2
The types of service referred to in  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  are—     a     a
regulated television selection service;         b     a designated internet
programme service;         c     a designated radio selection service;
d     a relevant internet radio service.             3     The confirmation
decision may be given—     a     to E alone, or         b     jointly to E and
to a fellow subsidiary entity.             4     Before giving a penalty
notice to a fellow subsidiary entity, or giving a confirmation decision to a
fellow subsidiary entity which was not previously given a provisional notice
of contravention relating to the same matter, OFCOM must give that entity an
opportunity to make representations to OFCOM about—     a     the matters
contained in the confirmation decision or the penalty notice, and         b
whether joint and several liability would be appropriate.             5     If
a confirmation decision or penalty notice is given to entities jointly under
sub-paragraph (3) (b) , those entities are jointly and severally liable to
comply with the requirements or (as the case may be) pay the penalty imposed
by the decision or notice.         6     See also  paragraph 4  of  Schedule
16A .               Liability of controlling individuals for failures by
entities     6       1     This paragraph applies where—     a     OFCOM are
satisfied that there are grounds for giving a person—     i     a confirmation
decision which requires the person to take steps or imposes a penalty (or
both), or         ii     a penalty notice,       in respect of a service of a
type specified in  sub-paragraph (2)  that is or was at any time provided by
the person,         b     the person is an entity (“ E ”), and         c
an individual or individuals control E.             2     The types of service
referred to in  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  are—     a     a regulated television
selection service;         b     a designated internet programme service;
c     a designated radio selection service;         d     a relevant internet
radio service.             3     The confirmation decision may be given—     a
to E alone, or         b     jointly to E and to the individual or individuals
who control E.             4     Before giving a penalty notice to an
individual, or giving a confirmation decision to an individual who was not
previously given a provisional notice of contravention relating to the same
matter, OFCOM must give that individual an opportunity to make representations
to OFCOM about—     a     the matters contained in the confirmation decision
or the penalty notice, and         b     whether joint and several liability
would be appropriate.             5     For the purposes of this paragraph, an
individual or individuals are to be taken to control E if that individual or
those individuals would, if they were an undertaking, be a parent undertaking
in relation to E within the meaning of section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006
by reason of meeting the condition in subsection (2)(a), (b), (c) or (d) or
(4)(a) of that section.         6     OFCOM may not give a confirmation
decision or a penalty notice to an individual or individuals (“ P ”) if—     a
the condition by reason of which P controls E is the condition in section
1162(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006, and         b     P makes
representations to OFCOM in pursuance of  paragraph 2 (7)  or  sub-paragraph
(4)  which satisfy OFCOM that P does not control E by reason of any condition
in section 1162(2)(b), (c) or (d) or (4) of that Act.             7     If a
confirmation decision or penalty notice is given jointly to E and to an
individual or individuals under  sub-paragraph (3) (b) , E and that individual
or those individuals are jointly and severally liable to comply with the
requirements or (as the case may be) pay the penalty, imposed by the decision
or notice.               General     7     In its application for the purposes
of this Schedule, paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to the Companies Act 2006 is to be
read as if the reference to operating and financial policies were to policies
relating to compliance with the regulatory requirements imposed by Parts 3A
and 3B.         8     For the purposes of this Schedule, sections 1161(4) and
1162 of, and Schedule 7 to, the Companies Act 2006—     a     are to apply in
relation to an entity which is not an undertaking (as defined in section
1161(1) of that Act) as they apply in relation to an undertaking, and
b     are to be read with any necessary modifications if applied to an entity
formed under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

  Amendments related to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU

Section 51

##### Amendments of the Broadcasting Acts

1

In section 202 of the Broadcasting Act 1990 (general interpretation), in
subsection (1), omit the definition of “the Audiovisual Media Services
Directive”.

2

In section 105 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 (interpretation of Part 4), in
subsection (1), in the definition of “the Audiovisual Media Services
Directive”, at the end insert  “as it has effect in EU law from time to time”
.

##### Amendments of the Communications Act 2003

3

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

4

4.1

Section 335B (maintenance of list of providers) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (1), for the words after paragraph (b) substitute  “which are
subject to regulation by OFCOM as a result of one of the provisions listed in
subsection (1A) ” .

4.3

After subsection (1) insert—

4.3.1A

The provisions are—

4.3.1A.a

section 198 (regulation of the BBC by OFCOM);

4.3.1A.b

section 203 (regulation of S4C by OFCOM);

4.3.1A.c

section 211 (regulation of independent television services).

4.4

Omit subsection (2).

4.5

For subsection (3) substitute—

4.5.3

OFCOM must publish the up to date list on a publicly accessible part of their
website.

4.6

In subsection (4)—

4.6.a

after “subsection (1)” insert  “(other than any service provided by the BBC or
S4C)” ;

4.6.b

for the words from “the determination of jurisdiction” to the end substitute
“whether or not the service falls to be regulated by OFCOM under section 211.”

5

5.1

Section 368BZA (maintenance of list of providers) is amended as follows.

5.2

Omit subsection (2).

5.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

5.3.3

OFCOM must publish the up to date list on a publicly accessible part of their
website.

6

In section 368BA (advance notification to appropriate regulatory authority),
in subsection (4), for the words from “the determination” to the end
substitute  “whether or not paragraphs (e) and (f) of section 368A(1) are
satisfied.”

7

In section 368CB (quota for European works)—

7.a

in subsection (7), in the definition of “European works”, after “Services
Directive” insert  “as it has effect in EU law as amended from time to time” ;

7.b

in subsection (8), at the end insert  “as amended from time to time” .

8

In section 368D (duties of service providers), in subsection (2)(ca), for the
words from “under the jurisdiction” to the end substitute  “subject to
regulation by the appropriate regulatory authority as a result of section
368A(1)(e) and (f);” .

9

9.1

Section 368E (harmful material) is amended as follows.

9.2

Before subsection (3)(za) insert—

9.2.zza

material the inclusion of which in an on-demand programme service would be an
offence under section 1 of the Terrorism Act 2006 (encouragement of
terrorism),

.

9.3

In subsection (3)(za)—

9.3.a

for “would be conduct” substitute  “is conduct of a kind that, immediately
before IP completion day, would have been” ;

9.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (i).

10

For section 368OA (co-operation with member States and the European
Commission) substitute—

######### Co-operation with EEA States

10.368OA

OFCOM may co-operate with EEA States which are subject to the Audiovisual
Media Services Directive, and with the national regulatory authorities of such
EEA states, for the following purposes—

10.368OA.a

facilitating the carrying out by OFCOM of any of their functions under this
Part, or

10.368OA.b

facilitating the carrying out by the national regulatory authorities of the
EEA states of any of their functions in relation to on-demand programme
services under the Directive as it has effect in EU law as amended from time
to time.

