Title: Post Office (Horizon System) Offences (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-06-21
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/6

## Post Office (Horizon System) Offences (Scotland) Act 2024

### Quashing of convictions

#### Quashing of convictions for relevant offences

1

1.1

Every conviction to which this Act applies is quashed on the coming into force
of this Act.

1.2

This Act applies to a conviction in Scotland which—

1.2.a

is for a relevant offence, and

1.2.b

took place before the coming into force of this Act.

#### Meaning of “relevant offence”

2

2.1

For the purposes of this Act, an offence alleged to have been committed by a
person is a “relevant offence” if conditions A to E are met.

2.2

Condition A is that the offence was alleged to have been committed—

2.2.a

on a date or dates falling within the period that begins with 23 September
1996 and ends with 31 December 2018, or

2.2.b

at any time during a period that falls wholly or partly within the period
mentioned in  paragraph (a) .

2.3

Condition B is that the offence is one of the following—

2.3.a

embezzlement,

2.3.b

fraud,

2.3.c

theft,

2.3.d

uttering,

2.3.e

an ancillary offence (see  subsection (7) ).

2.4

Condition C is that, at the time of the alleged offence, the person—

2.4.a

was carrying on a post office business, or

2.4.b

was working in a post office (whether under a contract of employment or
otherwise) for the purposes of a post office business.

2.5

Condition D is that the person was alleged to have committed the offence in
connection with carrying on, or working for the purposes of, the post office
business.

2.6

Condition E is that—

2.6.a

at the time of the alleged offence, the Horizon system was being used for the
purposes of the post office business, or

2.6.b

where the offence was alleged to have been committed at any time during a
period as mentioned in  subsection (2) (b) , the Horizon system was being used
for the purposes of the post office business for the whole or part of that
period.

2.7

In this section, “ ancillary offence ” means—

2.7.a

an offence of attempting or conspiring to commit an offence specified in any
of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  of  subsection (3)  (a “specified offence”),

2.7.b

an offence of inciting a person to commit a specified offence, or

2.7.c

an offence of aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of a
specified offence.

#### Identification and notification of quashed convictions

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers must take all reasonable steps to identify the
convictions quashed by section  1 (1) .

3.2

Where the Scottish Ministers identify that a person’s conviction has been
quashed by section  1 (1) , the Scottish Ministers must notify the convicting
court of the details of the conviction.

3.3

As soon as is reasonably practicable after receiving notification under
subsection (2) , the convicting court must enter, instead of the record of
conviction, a record that the conviction was quashed by this Act.

3.4

Where the Scottish Ministers identify that a person’s conviction has been
quashed by section  1 (1) , the Scottish Ministers—

3.4.a

must take all reasonable steps to notify the person, or, if the person is no
longer alive, the person’s personal representatives, that the conviction has
been quashed, or

3.4.b

if it is not reasonably practicable to give a notification under  paragraph
(a) , must take all reasonable steps to—

3.4.b.i

identify some other person whom the Scottish Ministers consider it appropriate
to notify, and

3.4.b.ii

notify that person that the conviction has been quashed.

3.5

For the purpose of identifying convictions quashed by section  1 (1) , the
Scottish Ministers must, in particular, consider any representations made to
the Scottish Ministers which claim that a person has been convicted of a
relevant offence, whether or not made by that person.

3.6

In this section, “ the convicting court ”, in relation to a person’s
conviction, means the court by or before which the person was convicted.

### Deletion of details of alternatives to prosecution

#### Deletion of details of alternatives to prosecution for relevant offences

4

4.1

If it appears to the Scottish Ministers that an alternative to prosecution
has, before the coming into force of this Act, been given to a person for a
relevant offence, the Scottish Ministers must direct the chief constable of
the Police Service of Scotland to delete the details, contained in the
criminal history database, of the alternative to prosecution.

4.2

As soon as is reasonably practicable after receiving a direction under
subsection (1) , the chief constable must delete the details of the
alternative to prosecution.

4.3

Where the Scottish Ministers give a direction under  subsection (1)  in
relation to an alternative to prosecution given to a person, the Scottish
Ministers—

4.3.a

must take all reasonable steps to notify the person, or, if the person is no
longer alive, the person’s personal representatives, that the direction has
been given, or

4.3.b

if it is not reasonably practicable to give a notification under  paragraph
(a) , must take all reasonable steps to—

4.3.b.i

identify some other person whom the Scottish Ministers consider it appropriate
to notify, and

4.3.b.ii

notify that person that the direction has been given.

4.4

For the purposes of this section, the Scottish Ministers must, in particular,
consider any representations made to the Scottish Ministers which claim that a
person has been given an alternative to prosecution for a relevant offence,
whether or not made by that person.

4.5

An alternative to prosecution has been given to a person for a relevant
offence within the meaning of  subsection (1)  if the person—

4.5.a

has been given a warning in respect of the offence by a constable in Scotland
or a procurator fiscal,

4.5.b

has accepted, or is deemed to have accepted—

4.5.b.i

a conditional offer issued in respect of the offence under section 302 of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, or

4.5.b.ii

a compensation offer issued in respect of the offence under section 302A of
that Act,

4.5.c

has had a work order made against the person in respect of the offence under
section 303ZA of that Act, or

4.5.d

has accepted an offer made by a procurator fiscal in respect of the offence to
undertake an activity or treatment or to receive services or do any other
thing as an alternative to prosecution.

4.6

In this section, the “ criminal history database ” means the criminal history
database of the Police Service of Scotland held for the use of police forces
generally.

### Information-sharing

#### Provision of information

5

The Scottish Ministers may, by notice in writing, require a person to provide
them with information which—

5.a

the person holds, and

5.b

the Scottish Ministers consider is necessary for the carrying out of their
functions under this Act.

### Reporting

#### Report on the operation of the Act

6

6.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of the period of one year beginning with the day after Royal Assent—

6.1.a

prepare and publish a report on the operation of this Act,

6.1.b

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament.

6.2

A report under  subsection (1)  must include information on—

6.2.a

the number of convictions in respect of which the Scottish Ministers have—

6.2.a.i

given notification to a convicting court under  section 3 (2) ,

6.2.a.ii

given notification to a person under  section 3 (4) ,

6.2.b

the steps taken by the Scottish Ministers to—

6.2.b.i

identify the convictions quashed by  section 1 (1) ,

6.2.b.ii

give notifications under  section 3 (4) .

### Final provisions

#### Consequential provision

7

7.1

Except as otherwise provided by section  3 , a person whose conviction is
quashed by section  1 (1)  is to be treated as if, on the coming into force of
this Act, the conviction had been quashed by the High Court on an appeal by
the convicted person.

7.2

In section 133 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 (compensation for miscarriages
of justice), the reference in subsection (5) to a conviction having been
quashed (or set aside) on an appeal out of time includes a reference to a
conviction having been quashed by section  1 (1) .

#### Ancillary provision

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act.

8.2

Regulations under this section may—

8.2.a

modify any enactment (including this Act),

8.2.b

make different provision for different purposes.

8.3

Regulations under this section—

8.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act,

8.3.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Interpretation

9

9.1

In this Act—

      “ conviction ” means—         a conviction by or before a court, or
a finding in any criminal proceedings (including a finding linked with mental
disorder or in respect of which an admonition or absolute discharge is made)
that a person has committed an offence or done the act or made the omission
charged,         and “convicted” is to be read accordingly,           “
Horizon system ” means any version of the computer system known as Horizon
(and sometimes referred to as Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X) used by
the Post Office, other than the version referred to as HNG-A,           “
postal services ” has the same meaning as in the Postal Services Act 2011 (see
section 27 of that Act),           “ Post Office ” means any of the following—
the Post Office,           Post Office Limited or Post Office Counters Limited
(registered number 02154540),           Royal Mail Group Limited, Consignia
Public Limited Company or Royal Mail Group plc (registered number 04138203),
“ post office ” means any premises or vehicle in Scotland from which postal
services are provided (whether alone or with other services) directly to the
public,           “ post office business ” means the business of providing
postal services (whether alone or with other services) from a post office,
“ relevant offence ” has the meaning given by section  2 .

9.2

Nothing in this Act affects any power of a court to quash a conviction to
which this Act does not apply.

#### Commencement

10

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

#### Short title

11

The short title of this Act is the Post Office (Horizon System) Offences
(Scotland) Act 2024.

