Title: Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2024
Date: 2024-05-08
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/4

## Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2024

      W hereas  the Commons of the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled have
resolved to authorise the use of resources and the issue of sums out of the
Consolidated Fund towards making good the supply which they have granted to
His Majesty in this Session of Parliament:—                  Be it therefore
enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Vote on Account for 2024-25

#### Vote on account for 2024-25

1

1.1

The use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2025 is authorised up
to the amount of £472,512,874,000.

1.2

Of the amount authorised by  subsection (1) —

1.2.a

£373,672,234,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

1.2.b

£98,840,640,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

1.3

The Treasury may—

1.3.a

issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

1.3.b

apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2025 for expenditure authorised by
Parliament,

up to the amount of £386,454,679,000.

### Supplementary provision for 2023-24

#### Authorisation of supplementary provision for 2023-24

2

2.1

The amount up to which the authorisation was conferred for the use of
resources for the year ending with 31 March 2024 is to be treated as further
increased by £18,577,452,000.

2.2

In relation to the further amount treated as authorised by  subsection (1) —

2.2.a

the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for current purposes is
to be treated as further increased by £29,619,818,000, and

2.2.b

the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for capital purposes is
to be treated as reduced by £11,042,366,000.

2.3

The amount up to which authorisation was conferred on the Treasury—

2.3.a

to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

2.3.b

to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2024 for expenditure authorised
by Parliament,

is to be treated as further increased by £10,943,718,000.

2.4

The increases and reduction for which  this section  provides are to be
treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2023.

#### Appropriation of supplementary provision for 2023-24

3

3.1

For the purposes of—

3.1.a

appropriating the amount of resources the use of which for the year ending
with 31 March 2024 is authorised by  section 2 (1) , and

3.1.b

appropriating the amount of money the issue of which out of the Consolidated
Fund is authorised by  section 2 (3) ,

the Main Estimates Act 2023 is to be treated as having effect with the
adjustments provided for in  Schedule 1  to this Act.

3.2

Schedule 1  specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as
made to the amounts originally specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the
Main Estimates Act 2023.

3.3

For the purpose of making the adjustments in  Schedule 1 —

3.3.a

a negative adjustment has effect to reduce an amount of authorised expenditure
and, where applied to an estimated surplus (which is expressed as if it were
itself a negative amount), increases the amount of the surplus, and

3.3.b

a positive adjustment has effect to increase an amount of authorised
expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus, reduces it.

3.4

Accordingly—

3.4.a

where an adjustment by a negative amount of more than the amount itself is
made to an amount of authorised expenditure, what results is an estimated
surplus, and

3.4.b

where an adjustment by a positive amount of more than the amount itself is
made to the amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of
authorised expenditure.

3.5

Where, in  Schedule 1 , a description of matters to which expenditure may
relate or from which income may arise (“description A”) differs from the
description contained in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in
the Main Estimates Act 2023 (“description B”), Schedule 1 has effect for
adjusting that corresponding part by substituting description A for
description B.

3.6

Where, in relation to a department, other person or service to which a
Scheduled Estimate in the Main Estimates Act 2023 relates, Schedule 1 contains
a new description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which
income may arise, Schedule 1 has effect for adjusting that Scheduled Estimate
by treating the new description as included in it.

3.7

In this section—

      “ estimated surplus ” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act
2023;           “ Main Estimates Act 2023 ” means the Supply and Appropriation
(Main Estimates) Act 2023.

3.8

The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had
effect from the beginning of 1 April 2023.

### Excesses for 2022-23

#### Authorisation of excesses for 2022-23

4

4.1

The amount up to which authorisation was conferred for the use of resources
for the year ending with 31 March 2023 is to be treated as further increased,
for the purpose of making good excesses, by £946,445,000.

4.2

The further amount treated as authorised by  subsection (1)  is to be treated
as authorised for use for current purposes.

4.3

The increases for which  this section  provides are to be treated as having
had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2022.

#### Appropriation of excesses for 2022-23

5

5.1

For the purpose of appropriating the amount of resources the use of which for
the year ending with 31 March 2023 is authorised by  section 4 (1) , the Main
Estimates Act 2022 is treated as having effect with the adjustments provided
for in  Schedule 2  to this Act.

5.2

Schedule 2  specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as
made to the amounts specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the Main Estimates
Act 2022 and to the amounts treated as so specified.

5.3

For the purpose of making the adjustments in  Schedule 2  an adjustment has
effect to increase an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to
an estimated surplus, reduces it.

5.4

Accordingly, where an adjustment of more than the amount itself is made to the
amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of authorised
expenditure.

5.5

Where, in  Schedule 2 , a description of matters to which expenditure may
relate or from which income may arise (“description A”) differs from the
description contained in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in
the Main Estimates Act 2022 (“description B”), Schedule 2 has effect for
adjusting that corresponding part by substituting description A for
description B.

5.6

Where, in relation to a department, other person or service to which a
Scheduled Estimate in the Main Estimates Act 2022 relates,  Schedule 2
contains a new description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from
which income may arise,  Schedule 2  has effect for adjusting that Scheduled
Estimate by treating the new description as included in it.

5.7

In  this section —

      “ estimated surplus ” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act
2022;           “ Main Estimates Act 2022 ” means the Supply and Appropriation
(Main Estimates) Act 2022 as it is treated as having effect in consequence of
the adjustments made by virtue of the Supply and Appropriation (Adjustments)
Act 2022 and the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act
2023.

5.8

The adjustments made by virtue of  this section  are to be treated as having
had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2022.

### General

#### Short title

6

This Act may be cited as the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and
Adjustments) Act 2024.

## Schedules

  Supplementary appropriations for financial year 2023-24 1

Section 3

1

1.1

In this Schedule, where an asterisk (*) appears at the beginning of a
description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income
may arise, the description is a description which was not included in the
Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2023 as
originally enacted.

1.2

Text which follows an asterisk (*) is added by this Schedule.

  Department of Health and Social Care, 2023-24   Department of Health and
Social Care       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department of Health and Social Care Departmental Expenditure Limit
3,788,392,000 -1,098,955,000 Annually Managed Expenditure -13,151,625,000
1,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -4,984,091,000 Total
-9,363,233,000 -1,098,954,000 -4,984,091,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Revenue (administration and programme) and capital
expenditure of the Department of Health and Social Care and other designated
bodies, including NHS England (including Integrated Care Boards), NHS
Providers, Special Health Authorities, Executive Non-Departmental Public
Bodies, the UK Health Security Agency and the Medicines and Healthcare
products Regulatory Agency.   Health and social service expenditure to and on
behalf of the NHS including the settlement of claims for personal injury and
clinical negligence, local authorities and other national bodies.   Local
government services, prison health services, medical, scientific and technical
services, services for disabled persons, education and training, grants to
voluntary organisations and other bodies, information services, breast implant
registry, Healthy Start programme, health promotion activities, research and
development and expenditure incurred in relation to life sciences.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic. This includes, but
is not exhaustive: NHS Test and Trace, personal protective equipment, Covid-19
medicines, treatments and equipment and the supply, distribution and
deployment of Covid-19 vaccines and associated activities.   Non-Departmental
Public Bodies' expenditure on health and social care protection, training and
regulation functions.   Expenditure to charitable trusts and companies
providing financial support and other relief to persons who contracted HIV and
Hepatitis C through receiving NHS treatment.   Forming, investing in or
providing loans or guarantees to companies that will provide facilities or
services to the NHS.   Services provided to or on behalf of devolved
governments and other government departments.   Medical treatment given to
people from the United Kingdom in the European Economic Area and other
countries.   Subsidies and grants to public corporations and local
authorities, payments to local authorities for use in local area agreements.
Official Development Assistance projects and activities. Subscriptions to
international organisations and international and commercial facilitation
relating to healthcare.   Payments for services incurred by other government
departments, including expenditure on behalf of the Department for Work and
Pensions.   Associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs (including
provisions, impairments and impairment of receivables).   Expenditure incurred
in relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce.       Income arising from:
Charges for accommodation, sales of goods and services, income generation
schemes. Local authorities under joint financing arrangements. Fines and
penalty notices. Medical and dental education levy.   Licensing of software,
use of NHS logo, settlement of legal claims, dividends and interest from loans
and investments, intellectual property, research and development, prescription
fraud charges, NHS prescriptions, dental and ophthalmic fraud charges.
Recoveries from patients in respect of incorrect claims for eligibility
including for NHS treatment and general ophthalmic services. Payments from
manufacturers or suppliers of medicinal products to control the cost of health
service medicines and purchasing and supply agency arrangements.   Sales of
medicines, vaccines, antivenoms, antitoxins and equipment, premiums applied to
the sale of stock.   Income from the Scottish Government, the Welsh
Government, Northern Ireland, Channel Islands and Isle of Man for services
provided for devolved or reserved work.   Provision of policy and advice to
other countries and care trusts. Maintenance of the National Joint Registry,
conference and meeting events, prison health services, contributions to
substance misuse funding, use of radio communication bandwidth.   Income
secured by counter fraud services from all sources.   Administration income
from seconded officers, cost of legal proceedings, staff telephone calls,
European fast stream programme. Recoveries and income from other government
departments, recoveries and income from ALBs (including capital and grants),
special health authorities and NHS bodies. Selling services into wider markets
and open government, payment by commercial tenants in DHSC buildings and
compensation income.   Licence fees and royalties, sales of publications,
contributions by members of the public, insurance claims and social exclusion
programmes. Other European Economic Area countries for NHS treatment of their
residents. Income collected for the immigration health surcharge. Sales of
subsidised dried milk. Income from the European Union.   Contributions from
the mobile phone industry, charitable contributions, refunds from voluntary
organisations. Contributions to local authority grant schemes. Contributions
and refunds towards communication campaigns contracts. Penalty charges,
interest and dividends on trading fund loans.   Income collected on behalf of
health innovation and education clusters.   Income received from the sale of
capital assets. Income received from the disposal of financial assets.
Income associated with the acquisition of assets.   Income arising from
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.   Income arising
from activities in relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce and Covid-19
Antiviral Taskforce.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure
arising from:   Revenue and capital expenditure for hospital financing under
Credit Guarantee Finance.   Provisions and other non-cash costs, of the
Department of Health and Social Care and other designated bodies, including
NHS England (including Integrated Care Boards), NHS Providers, Special Health
Authorities, Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies, the UK Health Security
Agency and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.

  Department for Education, 2023-24   Department for Education       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Education
Departmental Expenditure Limit 18,620,300,000 -257,590,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 2,377,348,000 -46,982,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement -912,367,000 Total 20,997,648,000 -304,572,000 -912,367,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Centrally
managed spend, grants and/or loans to primary, secondary, tertiary and
international education, apprenticeships and wider skills institutions,
including the purchase, development, protection and disposal of land and
buildings in support of these sectors.   The provision of financial and other
support for students and trainees including grants, allowances, access funds,
loans and their repayment. Loans to students and support for students through
Local Authorities.   The cost of sales of the student loan debt and the cost
of servicing the sold student loan debt.   Reimbursement of fees for
qualifying European Union students, post graduate awards, mandatory student
awards, childcare and transport support and loans.   Children's services,
including early years, childcare and safeguarding, welfare and young people's
services and expenditure incurred in relation to historical child migrants.
Curriculum, qualifications, and the inspection regime.   Schools Workforce
development and reform.   Expenditure associated with social mobility policy.
Expenditure relating to the regulation of the social work profession and
expenditure related to the regulation of the teaching profession.
Administering the Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales), pension costs
for voluntary services overseas (VSO) participants.   Education-related
payments, grants, and loans to organisations in the public, private and other
sectors, including employers, community, voluntary and business support
organisations, to individuals and other government departments, local
authorities and the Devolved Administrations, including expenditure relating
to insolvency resulting in either a restructuring solution, education
administration or closure.   Expenditure relates primarily to England, but in
some cases includes supporting activities in other parts of the United Kingdom
and abroad.   The costs of the Department, its Executive Agencies, and arm's
length bodies (ALBs): the Children's Commissioner, Aggregator Vehicle plc,
Located Ltd, Institute for Apprenticeships, Office for Students, Social Work
England, Student Loans Company Ltd, UK Commissioner for Employment and Skills,
Construction Industry Training Board, Engineering Construction Industry
Training Board and Oak National Academy together with residual costs from ALBs
being closed.   Loan and lease interest payable and the efficient management
and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department.   Capital, recurrent
payments and loans and associated non-cash items, including the impairment
cost for student loans.   Expenditure relating to delivery of Government
Guarantee funded policies should they be required.   Activities relating to
the sale of income contingent student loans, including purchase of retention
notes as financial instruments and repayments against the asset because of UK
Government Investment activity.   Expenditure relating to the provision of
education in support of the wider Grenfell recovery efforts.   Expenditure
relating to delivery of teacher assessments and student qualifications
including support to other government departments and Devolved
Administrations.   Expenditure relating to policy innovation and development,
and leadership of the cross-government policy profession.   Governmental
response to recovery following the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic including the
secondment and loan of staff to and from the Department in support of the
response, including loans and recoveries to support its ALBs.   Acting as the
Agent for other government departments in relation to payments and assurance
made in relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.   Expenditure and support to
other central government departments in respect of EU Exit.   Revenue and
capital expenditure to support the reclassification of FE colleges, sixth form
colleges and designated institutions in England to central government,
including capital loans and loan interest, grants, recoveries and impairments.
* Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education.       Income arising
from:   Administration and programme income in support of its objectives
including:   The sale of goods and services and royalty receipts by the
department including publications, its Executive Agencies, its ALBs, and other
partner organisations. Sale of research publications. Receipts from other
government departments, the Devolved Administrations, and other sources
(including the EU) in connection with a range of educational, training, youth
support, student finance provision, children and family programmes with common
objectives, and initiatives in the UK and overseas.   Early Intervention
Foundation receipts.   Interest receivable relating to Aggregator Vehicle plc.
Receipts from other government departments including charges for accommodation
and property rental income from departmental properties and from its ALBs, the
European School at Culham, sales receipts and profits from departmental or ALB
properties, equipment, or other assets (including some repayment of proceeds
of sale).   Income relating to the regulation of the teaching and social work
profession.   Income relating to insolvency as a result of education
administration.   Sales receipts, and rental income streams from sites
originally purchased for academies and free schools that are not required by
the school, penalty income for missed delivery dates in construction
contracts, repayments of grant overpaid in previous years or where required
conditions of grant retention have not been met, repayments of loans issued to
academies, receipts associated with the closure of departmental ALBs.
International receipts, Music Manifesto Champion receipts, income from
providing shared services, the receipt of administration fees collected by the
Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales).   Receipts from servicing sold
student loan debt. Receipts from asset sales repayment and default recoveries
by banks in respect of career development loans, receipts for student support,
student loan interest receivable, repayment of working capital loans, receipts
from the European Social Fund to cover departmental programmes, and
sponsorship funding.   Activities relating to the sale of income contingent
student loans, including purchase of retention notes as financial instruments
and repayments against the asset because of UK Government Investment activity.
The general administration receipts of the Department, its executive agencies,
its ALBs, and other partner organisations, including: the recovery of salaries
and associated costs for seconded staff, the disposal of surplus assets,
charges for accommodation, sale of goods and services, and interest from bank
accounts and exchange rate gains and losses.   Income relating to delivery of
teacher assessments and student qualifications including receipts from other
government departments and Devolved Administrations.   Income relating to
policy innovation and development, and leadership of the cross-government
policy profession.   Income and support to other central government
departments relating to support for EU Exit.   Acting as the Agent for other
government departments in relation to income and assurance made in relation to
Covid-19 and the pandemic.   Governmental response to recovery following the
Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and loan of staff to and from the
Department in support of the response, including loans and recoveries to
support its ALBs.   Income to support the reclassification of FE colleges,
sixth form colleges and designated institutions in England to central
government, including capital repayments and loan interest, grant income,
recoveries, and impairments.   * Income relating to the contractual
obligations under the terms and conditions of any concession contracts.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Take up and
maintenance of Departmental, Executive Agencies' and ALBs' provisions and
associated non-cash items including bad debts, impairments, tax and pension
costs for the Department, Executive Agencies and its ALBs, including
academies, and payment of corporation tax.   The provision of financial and
other support for students and trainees including grants, allowances, access
funds, loans and their repayment, the resource consequences of loans to
students, support for students through local authorities, the cost of sales of
the student loan debt, and education maintenance allowances and loans.
Governmental response to recovery following the Covid-19 pandemic including
the secondment and loan of staff to and from the Department in support of the
response, including loans and recoveries to support its ALBs.   Acting as the
Agent for other government departments in relation to payments and assurance
made in relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.   Revenue and capital
expenditure to support the reclassification of FE colleges, sixth form
colleges and designated institutions in England to central government,
including non-cash items for provisions, interest, impairment and other
expenditure associated with loans.   * Expenditure by the Construction
Industry Training Board and the Engineering Construction Industry Training
Board.       Income arising from:   Repayment of student loans, including of
principal and interest.   Receipts and levies from the Construction Industry
Training Board and the Engineering Construction Industry Training Board.
Receipts from asset sales.   Activities relating to the sale of income
contingent student loans, including purchase of retention notes as financial
instruments and repayments against the asset because of UK Government
Investment activity.   Governmental response to recovery following the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and loan of staff to
and from the Department in support of the response, including loans and
recoveries to support its ALBs.   Acting as the Agent for other government
departments in relation to payments and assurance made in relation to Covid-19
and the pandemic.   Income to support the reclassification of FE colleges,
sixth form colleges and designated institutions in England to central
government, including non-cash items for provisions, interest, impairment and
other expenditure associated with loans.

  Home Office, 2023-24   Home Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Home Office Departmental Expenditure Limit
4,956,526,000 468,474,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 346,273,000 110,000,000
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 3,400,000,000 Total
5,302,799,000 578,474,000 3,400,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Control of immigration and nationality; refugees
(including the provision of loans) and Voluntary and Community Sector refugee
organisations; support for asylum seekers; work permits.   Safeguarding
children and vulnerable adults including reducing and preventing child
trafficking and modern slavery; registration of forensic practitioners; grants
to, and other expenditure on behalf of, associated entities.   Securing the UK
border and for controlling migration of people and goods at ports and airports
across the UK and overseas.   Identity management; passports.   Emergency
planning and services; counter-terrorism and intelligence.   Responsibility
for the fire and rescue services; financial support to Local Authorities and
Fire and Rescue Authorities; emergency assistance; improvement, transformation
and efficiency; intervention action and capacity building in local
authorities; Private Finance Initiative Special Grant.   Police resource and
capital expenditure; crime reduction and prevention; firearms compensation and
related matters; other services related to crime; tackling drug abuse.
Expenditure arising from the programme to reform the proceeds of crime and
terrorism financing “suspicious activity reporting” regime.   Immigration
Health Surcharge and Immigration Skills Charge.   Net spending by Arm's Length
Bodies (Independent Office for Police Conduct, Security Industry Authority,
Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner, College of Policing,
Gangmasters Labour Abuse Authority and the Disclosure and Barring Service).
Payments of grant and grant-in-aid to other organisations promoting Home
Office objectives; support to local authorities including Area Based Grants;
payments to other Government departments; the administration and operation of
the department; and other non-cash items.       Income arising from:   Control
of immigration and nationality; additional or special immigration services;
work permits; fees, fines and penalties arising from relevant Home Office
legislation.   Identity management and data protection; passports and
certificates.   Emergency planning and services; counter-terrorism work, and
intelligence.   Responsibility for and inspections of crown premises and
emergency services.   Cyber-crime. Contributions for Police IT services.
Issue of licences and certificates; crime reduction and prevention; proceeds
of crime; training and advisory services.   Immigration Health Surcharge and
Immigration Skills Charge.   Contributions towards grant programmes from third
parties, other Government departments and the Devolved Administrations, the
European Union, other Governments; the administration and operation of the
department (including the sale and hire of assets).       Annually Managed
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Police Forces and Fire and
Rescue Services pensions; and other non-cash items.

  National Crime Agency, 2023-24   National Crime Agency       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National Crime Agency Departmental
Expenditure Limit 41,312,000 34,197,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0
1,233,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 0 Total 41,312,000
35,430,000 0   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
UK and overseas activity including but not limited to:   Principal function -
Crime Reduction:   Securing that efficient and effective activities to combat
serious and organised crime are carried out including by:   Investigating,
prosecuting, preventing and disrupting people engaged in serious and organised
crime.   Other expenditure related to tackling crime to support the objectives
of the National Crime Agency.   Payment of grants to partners to promote and
deliver National Crime Agency objectives; and the administration and operation
of the department, its enabling functions and non-cash items.   Expenditure
including: fees to Counsel and outside accountants, witness expenses, use of
information technology to improve presentation of evidence, other
investigation, prosecution and litigation costs, defendants' costs, and
damages ordered by the court to be paid by the NCA, including payments made as
a result of asset recovery activity to individuals, charities, companies,
other Government Departments, the Devolved Administrations, the European Union
and other Governments. All other costs associated with asset recovery through
Criminal and Civil courts and the holding and safeguarding of third party
assets.   Work relating to protection of witnesses and victims or potential
victims of crime.   Principal function - Criminal Intelligence:   Gathering,
storing, processing, analysing, and disseminating information that is relevant
to any of the following:   Intelligence activities to combat serious and
organised crime, activities to combat any other kind of crime and exploitation
proceeds investigations, exploitation proceeds orders and applications for
such orders.   NCA's response to the Serious and Organised Crime Strategy:
Pursue: prosecute and disrupt people engaged in serious and organised
criminality.   Prevent: prevent people from engaging in serious and organised
crime.   Protect: increase protection against serious and organised crime.
Prepare: reduce the impact of this criminality where it takes place.   Work on
research and development to increase knowledge and the furtherance of the
NCA's strategy and the law enforcement family.   For provision of training to
both internal and external parties.   Activity to ensure the effective
operation of the organisation after exiting the European Union including but
not limited to contingency planning, amending information systems,
implementation of new systems and processes and surge staff to new deployments
as required.   Expenditure to support, protect and enable the NCA and its
officers and national and local government and law enforcement organisations
during the Covid-19 pandemic or other new threats.   Work in support of HM
Government plans for negotiation and implementation of new deals with other
countries after exiting the European Union.   Expenditure on goods and
services to enable the reduction of the carbon footprint of the organisation.
The receipt or deployment of resources or people to other government
departments to mitigate industrial action.       Income arising from:   UK and
overseas activity including but not limited to:   Training and accreditation
fees;   Cyber Crime Prevention;   Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme;
Safeguarding children;   External contributions towards the NCA's own and also
NCA led and managed crime reduction activities and grant programmes, from
third parties including other Government departments, the Devolved
Administrations, the European Union and other Governments. The administration
and operation of the department (including the sale and hire of assets,
charges such as the use of intellectual property, insurance claims and legal
costs recovered).   External contributions for the provision of information to
third parties.   Recovery of income awarded to the NCA in court or by
negotiation with third parties, receipts of service provided by the NCA and
receipts from any asset recovery activity, including the recovery of VAT
expenditure where approved to do so.   From providing assistance to other law
enforcement and government bodies.   Recovery of expenditure incurred by NCA
enabling capability functions that established IT, recruitment of staff,
financial and other enabling requirements from third parties who provide the
agency with funds to deliver specific and mutually agreed objectives.   Income
relating to costs incurred to ensure the effective operation of the
organisation after exiting the European Union including but not limited to
contingency planning, amending information systems, implementation of new
systems and processes and surging staff to new deployments as required.
Recovery of costs incurred for work in support of HM Government plans for a
negotiation and implementation of new deals with other countries after exiting
the European Union.   Funds from other Government departments to enable the
organisation to reduce its carbon footprint.   Income relating to costs and
pressures in relation to Covid-19 or other new threats.   The receipt or
deployment of resources or people to other government departments to mitigate
industrial action.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure
arising from:   Pension and all other provisions and other non-cash items.

  Ministry of Justice, 2023-24   Ministry of Justice       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Justice Departmental
Expenditure Limit 518,848,000 -789,007,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
215,732,000 1,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -106,608,000
Total 734,580,000 -789,006,000 -106,608,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Administration of the Ministry of Justice, its
Agencies, Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs) and associated offices including the
Office of the Accountant General; administration of judicial pay and of the
Judicial Pensions Scheme.   Policy and activities relating to the justice
system including: civil, family and criminal justice; administrative justice
(e.g. tribunals policy work), legal aid and legal support; support for victims
and witnesses; miscarriages of justice; judicial and legal services policy.
Policy and activities related to coroner, burial and cremation services
including the administration of the Children's Funeral Fund.   Policy and
activities relating to sentencing and offender reform, including prison,
probation and youth justice; reducing reoffending; support for youth, women
and vulnerable offenders; commissioning of prison, probation, and youth
custody services including safety and security.   Policy and activities
relating to human rights, both domestic and in relation to the UK's
international obligations; management of the Government's constitutional
relationship with the Crown Dependencies; European and international business
in the justice field including costs arising from the UK's exit from the
European Union.   Payments in respect of public inquests and inquiries; fee
refund schemes; grants and other payments to Police and Crime Commissioners,
local authorities, other justice system partners, support providers and public
sector bodies.   Compensation to judicial office holders, including payments
in lieu of pension where these cannot be met by the Judicial Pensions Scheme.
Expenditure by the following Executive Agencies: His Majesty's Prison and
Probation Service; His Majesty's Courts and Tribunals Service including the
Court of Protection; the Office of the Public Guardian; the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Authority and the Legal Aid Agency, including costs paid from
central funds.   Net expenditure by the following executive ALBs: Criminal
Cases Review Commission; Children and Family Court Advisory and Support
Service; Independent Monitoring Authority for the Citizens' Rights Agreements,
Judicial Appointments Commission; Legal Services Board; Office for Legal
Complaints; Parole Board; Youth Justice Board; Oasis Restore Trust and Gov
Facility Services Limited.   Expenditure of advisory ALBs on inspectorates,
monitoring boards, lay observers, the UK National Preventive Mechanism, the
Prisons and Probation Ombudsman, Judicial Appointments and Conduct Ombudsman;
support for the judiciary and other monitoring and advisory activities; the
Law Commission, the Office of the Official Solicitor and the Public Trustee;
the Sentencing Council for England and Wales and the Victims' Commissioner.
Capital, depreciation and other non-cash costs falling in DEL.       Income
arising from:   Income related to the activities of His Majesty's Courts and
Tribunals Service, including Civil and Family Court fee income; Tribunals fee
income; Probate fee income.   Fine income, including retention of legacy
criminal court charging income; receipts relating to the asset recovery
incentive scheme; receipts from the Victims Surcharge; receipts retained in
relation to the costs of fine enforcement and pre-1990 loan charge debt
payments.   Income related to the activities of His Majesty's Prison and
Probation Service, including share of gross profits from sales and services;
prisoners' earnings and contributions related to damage to property; receipts
from external organisations, subsidies and sales; receipts from local
authorities for secure remand places.   Fees charged by the Public Trustee,
Office of the Public Guardian and Court of Protection.   Income related to the
activities of the Legal Aid Agency including client contributions, recoveries,
interest and grants from other third parties.   Repayment of criminal injuries
compensation; contributions from other Government Departments towards the
costs of inquests and inquiries.   Recoveries from the Debt Management Office
for the cost of administering funds in court; from investment managers for the
cost of administering the Lord Chancellor's Strategic Investment Board; for
research and recommendation work undertaken by the Law Commission; recoveries
by the Office of the Official Solicitor.   Legal services regulation; judicial
superannuation contributions and receipts from the Judicial Pensions Scheme
supply estimate for administrative costs.   Receipts from: the European
Commission; Royal Licences; Crown Office fees; Design 102 activities; the New
Deal Scheme and wider markets initiatives; the Scottish Government, Northern
Ireland Executive and the Welsh Government; National Insurance Fund and
Scottish Criminal Injuries Compensation Appeals Panel; the Education and
Skills Funding Agency; the Heritage Lottery Fund and Sport England.   The
general administration receipts of the Department and its executive agencies,
including the recovery of salaries, the disposal of capital assets, charges
for accommodation, sale of goods and services, and interest from bank
accounts; other charges and receipts received from other Government
Departments.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising
from:   Maintenance of Departmental, Executive Agencies and ALBs' provisions
and other non-cash items including bad debts, impairments, tax and pension
costs and corporation tax.   Additional Universal Credit expenditure
associated with the early release of prisoners.

  Crown Prosecution Service, 2023-24   Crown Prosecution Service
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Crown
Prosecution Service Departmental Expenditure Limit 45,726,000 11,300,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 18,000,000 8,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 57,226,000 Total 63,726,000 19,300,000 57,226,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administrative, operational, and capital costs incurred by the CPS in
prosecuting criminal cases in England and Wales. These costs include
prosecution costs, costs of confiscating the proceeds of crime and capacity
building in the Criminal Justice System along with staff costs, the hire of
agents, support of voluntary sector organisations within the Criminal Justice
System and associated depreciation and any non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Income arising from:   The CPS has two main sources of income, costs awarded
to CPS in court and the Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme. Additional to
this the CPS receives income from the following sources, revenue from contract
with customers, refund of expenditure for seconded staff, collaborative
working with partner organisations and other administrative income.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Write-offs and
changes in allowance for irrecoverable debts, provisions and other non-cash
costs falling in  AME.

  Serious Fraud Office, 2023-24   Serious Fraud Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Serious Fraud Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit 34,253,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 250,000,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 34,253,000 Total 284,253,000 0
34,253,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administration of The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) including staff costs,
capital and operational costs, fees to counsel and outside accountants,
witness expenses, use of information technology to analyse and review
documents and improve the presentation of evidence, other investigation,
prosecution and litigation costs, defendants' costs and damages ordered to be
paid by the SFO.   Providing advice and assistance to support the United
Kingdom's exit from the EU: payments made as a result of asset recovery
schemes and deferred prosecution agreements and associated non-cash costs
falling in DEL.       Income arising from:   Recovery of income awarded to the
SFO in court; receipts for services provided by the SFO and receipts from any
asset recovery schemes or deferred prosecution agreements.       Annually
Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   * Provision cover for
legal costs arising from events during the year.

  HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor, 2023-24   HM Procurator
General and Treasury Solicitor       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor
Departmental Expenditure Limit -905,000 3,100,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
500,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,195,000 Total
-405,000 3,100,000 2,195,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Administration of HM Procurator General and
Treasury Solicitor's Department comprising the Government Legal Department,
the Attorney General's Office and HM Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate
and costs and fees for providing legal and other services, and non-cash items
in DEL. Includes programme costs associated with continuing work on EU Exit
Transition.       Income arising from:   Recovery of costs from other
government departments and associated bodies including costs recovered for
legal and administrative services provided and receipts from secondments of
staff; favourable costs awarded; cost awards made by the courts in favour of
the Attorney General; charges for Bona Vacantia work; recovery of costs from
tenants in jointly occupied buildings; income in relation to the Government
Legal Service operation; subscription services; photocopying services;
receipts from sales of fixed assets and non-capital items; rent and rate
rebates; recovery of old debts; receipts from staff; income from ICT services
and other administrative income.       Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:   * Expenditure is required to cover the creation
and revaluation of provisions to cover the cost of potential litigation
liabilities.

  Ministry of Defence, 2023-24   Ministry of Defence       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Defence Departmental
Expenditure Limit 2,796,423,000 858,788,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 1,000
0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 4,855,211,000 Total
2,796,424,000 858,788,000 4,855,211,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Ongoing military commitments, including
identifying and countering the threat of terrorist attack on the UK Mainland
and maintaining the integrity of UK waters and airspace. Contributing to the
community, including through the administration of cadet forces, costs of
assistance to other Government Departments and civil agencies. Defence
engagement and delivery of agreed goods in support of wider British interests.
Delivering military capability, including the full costs of front line troops
including attributed costs of logistical, infrastructure and personnel support
costs. Research on the equipment and non-equipment programme. Provision of
financial interventions to the private and charitable sector in support of
delivery of departmental outputs. To support Ministers and Parliament.
Undertake strategic management and corporate services. Pensions and other
payments/allowances for disablement or death arising out of war or service in
the Armed Forces after 2 September 1939. Awards to surviving members of
British groups held prisoner by the Japanese during the Second World War (Far
Eastern Prisoners of War) or their surviving spouse. Pensions and other
payments in respect of service in the Armed Forces at other times, excluding
claims under the Armed Forces Compensation Scheme and Armed Forces pension
scheme.   Personnel costs of the Armed Forces and their Reserves, Cadet
forces. Personnel costs of Defence Ministers, civilian staff employed by the
Ministry of Defence and contractors working on Defence contracts. Procurement
of Defence assets including the development and production of equipment and
weapon systems for the Armed Forces. Support to the nuclear warhead and
fissile material programme.   Research by contract. Wider procurement services
including those on repayment terms, purchases for sale abroad, purchases for
gifting abroad, contractor costs including on redundancy.   The repair,
maintenance, stores, support and supply services for Defence including
associated capital facilities and works, plant and machinery.   Movements of
Defence assets including the contracting for vehicles (to include chartering
of ships, trains and planes), and the wider logistic services for the Armed
Forces and supporting groups.   Land and buildings facilities management and
works services. Services provided by other Government Departments. Sundry
services, subscriptions, grants, including support to Armed Forces charities
and other payments, assistance to Foreign and Commonwealth Governments for
defence-related purposes.   UK youth community projects. Spending on,
including set-up costs and loans to, Trading Funds Arm's Length Bodies and
other Designated Defence Bodies.   In support of Military operations over and
above the costs of maintaining the units involved at their normal state of
readiness. The net additional programme costs for early warning, crisis
management, conflict resolution, humanitarian efforts, peace-making, peace-
keeping and peace-building activities in other parts of the world. The net
additional costs of associated strengthening of international regional systems
through, but not exclusive of, capacity-building and other stabilisation
activities.   Personnel costs of the Armed Forces and their Reserves includes
provision for Regular Naval and Marine Services to a number not exceeding
39,550; provision for the Regular Army Service to a number not exceeding
102,250; provision for Regular Air Force Service to a number not exceeding
36,500; and provision for Officers, Men and Women in the Reserve Forces not
exceeding the numbers specified in respect of each Reserve Force for the
purposes of Parts 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 in  House of
Commons paper No. 1036 of Session 2022-23.   * Support to Afghan relocations
and resettlement.       Income arising from:   Provision of services to
Foreign Governments and other Government Departments. Payments for services
provided by Trading Funds, Arm's Length Bodies and other designated Defence
Bodies. Dividends, interest and loan repayments from Trading Funds, Arm's
Length Bodies and other designated Defence Bodies. Sale of assets. Recovery of
costs from personnel. Rent for use of Ministry of Defence property and
miscellaneous receipts.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure
arising from:   The creation and revaluation of provisions; impairments due to
the revaluation of assets, unforeseen obsolescence and losses caused by
catastrophic events. Bad debts and foreign exchange gains and losses.   Costs
associated with decommissioning.

  Security and Intelligence Agencies, 2023-24   Security and Intelligence
Agencies       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Security and Intelligence Agencies Departmental Expenditure Limit -305,000
95,761,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 5,600,000 500,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 175,956,000 Total 5,295,000 96,261,000
175,956,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administration and operational costs, research and development works,
equipment and other payments, and associated depreciation and any other non-
cash costs falling in DEL.       Income arising from:   The sale of services
to other government departments, the recovery of costs of staff on loan,
recovery from staff for miscellaneous items and certain other services. The
sale of fixed assets, freehold interest and land.       Annually Managed
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Provisions and other non-cash
items.

  Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, 2023-24   Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
Departmental Expenditure Limit 3,831,000 -52,583,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 433,965,000 153,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement -900,111,000 Total 437,796,000 100,417,000 -900,111,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Development
and humanitarian assistance under the International Development Act 2002
through financial and technical assistance to governments, institutions,
voluntary agencies and individuals for activities including: strengthening
global peace, security and governance; strengthening resilience and response
to crisis; promoting global prosperity; tackling extreme poverty and helping
the world's most vulnerable; delivering value for money and delivery
efficiency in FCDO; continued assistance to UK Overseas Territories; costs
relating to investments in public corporations and shareholdings in private
sector companies.   Wilton Park Executive Agency; the British Council; BBC
World Service; spending by ALBs: Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) on
scholarships to individuals from Commonwealth countries; Independent
Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI), an advisory ALB which provides independent
scrutiny of UK Aid in order to promote the delivery of value for money for
British taxpayers and the maximisation of the impact of aid; Westminster
Foundation for Democracy; Great Britain-China Centre and the Marshall Aid
Commemoration Commission.   Diplomacy; hospitality and facilities;
international organisations; information services; scholarships and sponsored
visits; consular assistance; special payments and assistance; programmes
supporting foreign policy objectives including human rights, good governance,
international security, the fight against the illicit drug trade and promoting
our prosperity.   Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.
Conflict prevention, early warning, crisis management, conflict
resolution/peace-making, peace-keeping and peace-building activity and
associated strengthening of international and regional systems and capacity.
Operational and legal costs, related capital expenditure, administration costs
and associated depreciation and other non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Income arising from:   Capital repayments and receipt of interest on
development assistance and budget support loans; management fees relating to
loan guarantees; refunds of payments made under UK guarantees to the European
Investment Bank; recoveries from other government departments; recovery of
advances from procurement agents.   Receipts for seconded officers and country
based staff; rental income; recoveries from staff for use of official
vehicles; refund of rental and rates payments; rent uplifts and sub-letting;
abatements and settlement of legal cases; the sale of information material;
sales of surplus property, material and equipment; legalisation fees collected
at both home and abroad; telephone and postage recoveries; medical scheme
recoveries, bank interest and sundry receipts; repayment by locally engaged
staff of loans for car purchase and medical and other assistance.   Other
Government Departments for the FCDO platform; grants; receipts from overseas
governments and other third parties in respect of programme funds and receipts
from overseas governments in respect of bilateral country and sector
programmes.   Visa and passport services provided at consular offices;
repayments of sums advanced to distressed British Nationals.   Wilton Park
Executive Agency receipts from customers for running costs, sales and rents;
Hospitality Section, Conference and Visits Group; Lancaster House receipts.
Income from debentures/shares issued to FCDO by CDC Group plc and other
private sector entities; and other income in relation to capital assets;
interest and dividends from public corporations; sales into wider markets, use
of assets and sponsorships.   * Income from debentures/shares issued to FCDO
by British International Investment and other private sector entities.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Non-cash
movements in provisions including contributions to International Finance
Facility for Immunisation (IFFIm) and Advanced Market Commitments (AMC);
change in fair value of financial instruments and other non-cash costs falling
in AME; the re-capitalisation of CDC Group plc.   The refund of certain taxes
and duties paid by certain foreign and Commonwealth governments.   * The re-
capitalisation of British International Investment.       Income arising from:
Non-cash accounting adjustments on the loan portfolio.

  Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, 2023-24   Department
for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Departmental Expenditure Limit - Housing and Communities
431,561,000 -69,853,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit - Local Government
-23,151,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure -2,228,784,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -2,043,566,000 Total -1,820,374,000
-69,853,000 -2,043,566,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit - Housing and
Communities       Expenditure arising from:   Increasing the supply of
affordable housing and supporting home ownership and diversifying the housing
market; policies and activities regulating and helping people access the
housing market, whether they are renting or looking to buy; policies to
improve housing quality; supporting infrastructure and planning programmes
including policy; buying, remediating and selling land for housing and
economic development; preventing homelessness, and supporting people to stay
in their homes and supporting those already homeless.   Supporting local
economies across the United Kingdom to boost productivity and deliver
inclusive growth for all our communities, cultural institutions and society in
general; economic growth and devolving powers and responsibilities at a local
level; European Union (EU) structural funds; UK Holocaust Memorial project.
Supporting local authorities and communities; bringing them together;
emergency assistance and financial support to local authorities and
communities; encouraging race, gender and faith equality; helping support
troubled families and victims of domestic violence and child sexual
exploitation; tackling extremism and promoting cohesive communities; Gypsy and
Traveller policy.   Supporting effective local government to deliver public
services to local people, driving efficiencies and transformation; encouraging
action at neighbourhood level; legacy and historic programmes previously run
by the Department including payments to the Valuation Office Agency; research
and development programmes; supporting the effective functioning of the local
audit system.   Responsibility for keeping the Grenfell Tower site safe and
secure until a decision is made about its future. Supporting residents and
victims of the Grenfell fire and engaging with the Grenfell Tower Memorial
Commission.   Delivery of the Building Safety portfolio through supporting and
monitoring the rectification of safety issues relating to buildings and
enforcement by local regulators; reviewing the current building safety system
and implementing changes to that system as they are required; delivery of
energy performance of buildings regime. UK-wide delivery of insurance products
to rectify building safety issues and a National Regulator for Construction
Products, and the delivery of a new Building Safety Regulator for England
along with training and recruitment of local regulators.   Exiting the EU and
net spending by Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs) and public corporations, including
Homes England.   Expenditure relating to any of the above areas in the form
of: equity investment, or making loans through advances of principal
(financial transactions); using a payment by results mechanism; the creation
of liabilities and expenditure related to a financial guarantee or similar
financial instrument given by the Department; providing grant funding to
charities; providing funding through endowments as laid out in Managing Public
Money; social investment models; purchase and management of exchange rate
contracts to hedge exposure risk; financial transactions devolved to and
delivered by local authorities.   Administration of the Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, its ALBs, and associated offices,
ensuring that they deliver on the Department's objectives.   Administration
and operation of the Department in connection with maintaining the integrity
of the Union, and sustaining a flourishing democracy.       Income arising
from:   Increasing the supply of affordable housing and supporting home
ownership and diversifying the housing market; policies and activities
regulating and helping people access the housing market, buying and selling
land for housing and economic development; capital pooled housing receipts;
planning programmes and policy.   Supporting local economies across the
country to boost productivity and deliver inclusive growth for all our
communities and economic growth; EU structural funds and European Regional
Development Fund programme; city deals.   Supporting effective local
government to deliver public services to local people, driving efficiencies
and transformation; supporting local authorities; disabled facilities grant;
legacy and historic programmes previously run by the Department; research and
development programmes.   Exiting the EU and net spending by ALBs and public
corporations, including Homes England.   Delivery of the Building Safety
portfolio and energy performance regime.   Income relating to any of the above
areas in the form of: equity investment, or making loans through advances of
principal (financial transactions); using a payment by results mechanism; fees
and charges including by ALBs; creation of liabilities and expenditure related
to a financial guarantee or similar financial instrument given by the
Department; purchase and management of exchange rate contracts to hedge
exposure risk; financial transactions devolved to and delivered by local
authorities.   Administration of the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities, its ALBs, and associated offices, ensuring that they deliver on
the Department's objectives and any activities listed in the expenditure
section.   Philanthropic donations towards the construction and management of
the Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre.   Deposits forfeited by candidates
in an election.   Insurance schemes.   Insurance schemes.       Departmental
Expenditure Limit - Local Government       Expenditure arising from:
Supporting effective local government to deliver public services to local
people.   Financial support to local authorities and specified bodies
including grant payments; including revenue support grant, business rates
retention including transitional relief; business rate relief measures and
Covid-19 measures.   Supporting social care and independent living; local
government devolved powers.   * Supporting cyber and digital modernisation.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Debt payments
relating to housing stock; charges on financial products' repayments of excess
contributions made by local authorities; provision for future liabilities,
impairments, and exchange rate movements including on financial instruments
(including guarantees); business rates retention; hedging.   Supporting
effective local government to deliver public services to local people and net
spending by the Department's ALBs and other public bodies not classified as
ALBs and setting up of new Development Corporations. Movements arising from
pension schemes of the Department and its ALBs; other public bodies not
classified as ALBs.   Supporting communities to respond and recover from
Covid-19.       Income arising from:   Supporting effective local government
to deliver public services to local people.

  Department for Culture, Media and Sport, 2023-24   Department for Culture,
Media and Sport       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department for Culture, Media and Sport Departmental Expenditure Limit
90,059,000 -58,658,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 1,000 -319,536,000 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 135,497,000 Total 90,060,000
-378,194,000 135,497,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure
arising from:   Administration, operating and legal costs of the Department
and grants to other government departments. Net spending and sponsorship of
Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs), sponsored bodies and associated offices.
Delivery of Covid-19 response activities for Culture, Media and Sport sectors,
including loan book management and insurance schemes.   Research, development
and surveys. Funding for UK membership of various international organisations.
The closure or restructure of organisations and legal cases. Management of
overseas development funding for cultural protection.   Support for the
cultural and heritage sectors, libraries, archive institutions, UK City of
Culture programme and the wider visitor economy. The Government Indemnity
Scheme, Blythe House programme and legacy relating to Unboxed: Creativity in
the UK. Royal Palaces, Royal Parks, national heritage and historic buildings,
ancient monuments and sites, Listed Places of Worship schemes,  memorials and
ceremonial occasions, Government Art Collection.   Promoting trade, inward
investment and global engagement.   Investment in elite and
community/grassroots sport and facilities. Delivery of 2012 Olympic and
Paralympic games legacy, Commonwealth Games 2022 legacy and related
programmes. Bidding for and staging of major sporting events.   Expenditure
associated with ensuring that commercial gambling is socially responsible and
that the National Lottery and society lotteries are effectively regulated.
Sponsorship of and support for the creative industries. Support for
broadcasting, radio, journalism, gambling, film and video licensing, the
Gambling Commission and regulatory regimes and schemes.   Building a stronger
civil society through a range of public, private and civil society partners,
and increasing and improving services, facilities and positive activities for
young people; ensuring a robust legal and regulatory framework for charities;
maximising sustainable income streams, and providing support into civil
society.   Associated non-cash costs in DEL.   * Expenditure for the
completion of the Honours Database. The establishment of the Independent
Football Regulator. Support for the visitor economy sector and natural
heritage. Delivery of other major and commemorative events including Covid
Commemoration. New activity arising from consideration and implementation of
recommendations from the UK Commission on Covid Commemoration's independent
report.       Income arising from:   Proceeds from the sale of properties,
assets and the early release of office leases, fees and charges for licences
and receipts from concessionaires and sponsors, fees for provision of
corporate and technology services, repayment of grants, fees charged for
Subject Access Requests and data protection enquiries and repayment of loan
principal and related interest.   Other government departments, ALBs, devolved
administrations, local authorities, and the private sector.   Covid-19
response activities for Culture, Media and Sport sectors.   Government Art
Collection, recovery of commemorative and ceremonial costs, recovery of costs
for repairs to listed buildings.   Cultural objects of significance received
under the Cultural Gifts scheme and passed to the Acceptance in Lieu panel.
The National Lottery Distribution Fund, National Lottery operator's licence
fees and recoveries from the issue of licensing certificates.   The legacy of
the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2012, Commonwealth Games 2022, Unboxed:
Creativity in the UK and related programmes.   Voluntary donations to fund a
new Queen's Award for Voluntary Service operating system.   * Recovery of
associated costs relating to the display and/or conservation of artworks
across international locations.       Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:   Funding the BBC, Channel Four, S4C and regulators
sponsored by the department.   Provisions, impairments and other AME
expenditure from DCMS and its sponsored bodies.   National Lottery grants made
by the Lottery Distributing Bodies.   Associated AME non-cash costs.

  Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, 2023-24   Department for
Science, Innovation and Technology       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Science, Innovation and Technology
Departmental Expenditure Limit 124,862,000 -472,479,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure -10,600,223,000 -2,480,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement -946,693,000 Total -10,475,361,000 -2,952,479,000 -946,693,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Activities of
the Geospatial Commission.   Increasing science and research excellence in the
United Kingdom and maximising its contribution to society.   Support for space
related programmes.   The payment of subscriptions and contributions to
international organisations and fulfilment of international treaty
obligations.   Support for the activities of the Position, Navigation and
Timing (PNT) Office.   Making payments to local authorities in respect of
Local Area Agreements and New Burdens responsibilities.   Activities of UK
Government Investments on behalf of the Department.   The efficient management
and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department and its partner
organisations.   The management of the Government's shareholder interest in
the portfolio of commercial businesses wholly or partly owned by Government;
providing financial assistance to public corporations, and trading funds.
Specialist support services, staff management and development; legal costs;
other departmental administration and non-cash costs; payments towards the
United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority Combined Pension Scheme deficit;
exchange risk and other guarantee losses; publicity, promotion, publications,
knowledge sharing initiatives and departmental research and development;
surveys,  monitoring, statistics, advice and consultancies; management of
asset sales; contributions to fund cross government initiatives and grants to
other government departments; payments to HM Treasury towards the cost of
Infrastructure UK.   Expenditure arising from the UK's departure from the
European Union.   Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.
Grants to local authorities.   Funding organisations supporting departmental
objectives, including the department's executive agencies and arm's length
bodies and their subsidiaries and associated offices.   Support for high-risk
projects with potential for transformative change through the Advanced
Research and Invention Agency (ARIA), including set up costs.   Management of
overseas development funding for digital development.   Delivery and
sponsorship of digital infrastructure and telecommunications, including
Building Digital UK delivery.   Sponsorship and support of the digital economy
including developing a pro-innovation regulatory regime for AI.   The
enablement of the use of secure digital identity products across the UK
economy. The delivery of certain elements of the National Cyber Security
Strategy and responsibilities concerning the security and resilience of the UK
telecoms sector, the UK Network and Information Systems Regulations.
Development of policy and legislation to establish a new pro-competition
regulatory regime for digital markets.   International activity to further the
government's digital policy objectives.   The development of, and initiatives
to increase UK contribution to the development of technical digital standards.
Tackling harmful content online, counter misinformation and disinformation.
Development and implementation of policy, including economic security policy,
in relation to digital and emerging technologies.   Development of data policy
for the economy, science, research as well as society and security, including
the National Data Strategy. Work to enable trustworthy data innovation in the
public and private sector.   * Association and participation fees payable to
the European Commission following the UK's decision toassociate to EU R&D
programmes.   Grants to private companies using the spending powers set out in
the Industrial Development Act 1982.   The provision of support for technology
firms to promote research and development, innovation and standards, best
practice and sustainable development including the provision of financial
solutions to accelerate private sector investment.   Activities of the
Geospatial Commission, including expenditure on the Public Sector Geospatial
Agreement, Postcode Address File, Public Sector License and Aerial Photography
Great Britain.   Development and implementation of policy, including research
and testing, into artificial intelligence.   Grants to private companies for
research and testing, and for infrastructure to support research of artificial
intelligence.       Income arising from:   Receipts from other Government
Departments, arm's length bodies and devolved administrations.   Receipts from
statutory regulators in respect of expenses related to levies from industry.
Receipts from licences and levies; dividends; equity withdrawals; interest on
loans and loan repayments from the Ordnance Survey, Met Office, UK
Intellectual Property Office and National Physical Laboratory.   Income from
investments; receipts from financial investments made by UK Research and
Innovation; repayment of loans and investments; repayment of capital grants;
repayments of grants and contributions; receipts from asset sales.   European
Fast Stream receipts; repayment of working capital loans; receipts from
outside organisations in respect of advertising and publicity activities and
materials; sale of research publications; receipts from the European Social
Fund to cover departmental programmes; sponsorship funding.   Receipts and
profit from the sale of surplus land, buildings and equipment; rental income
and repayments including from three domestic properties on the estate of the
European School of Culture at Culham, Oxfordshire and from the National
Physical Laboratory. Receipts associated with the closure of partner
organisations.   Receipts from LifeArc/MRC Technology, the Ufi Charitable
Trust, and subsidiaries and shares in joint ventures of UK Research and
Innovation, and other partner organisations, the public weather service and
mapping services.   General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services; HMRC receipts arising from the Research and
Development Expenditure Credit; and interest from bank accounts and exchange
rate gains and losses.   Income relating to legal services, consultancy,
publications, public enquiries, information, central services; occupancy
charge; administrative and professional services; EU receipts; refund of input
VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; fees for
services provided for energy resilience purposes; interest payments; non-cash
income.   Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.
Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of activities they
have agreed to fund in total or in part.   Proceeds from the sale of
properties, assets and the early release of office leases, fees and charges
for licences and receipts from concessionaires and sponsors, fees for
provision of corporate and technology services, repayment of grants, fees
charged for Subject Access Requests and data protection enquiries and
repayment of loan principal and related interest. Fees charged to data
controllers under data protection legislation and regulations. Fines and
penalties collected by the ICO under legislation that it regulates.   Receipts
from local authorities, and the private sector.   The sale of radio spectrum
and contributions from other government departments toward the costs of joint
schemes.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
The efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations.   Bad debts, impairments and
provisions; other non-cash items.   Departmental administration; financial
guarantee schemes; regional investment and programmes; enterprise for small
and medium firms; provision of support for business, including support for
specific industries; support for innovation and research activity;
miscellaneous programmes.   Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic.   The management of asset sales.   Payment of corporation tax.
Contributions to partner organisations' pension schemes, such as the Research
Councils' Pension Scheme.   Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf
of the Department.   The expenditure of The NESTA Trust.   Impairment of loans
and investments; Exchange rate gains and losses.   * Association and
participation fees payable to the European Commission following the UK's
decision toassociate to EU R&D programmes.

  Department for Transport, 2023-24   Department for Transport       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Transport
Departmental Expenditure Limit 3,320,847,000 1,445,538,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 1,000 1,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
2,023,367,000 Total 3,320,848,000 1,445,539,000 2,023,367,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Improving transport
connections across the United Kingdom. Support of transport-related activities
including roads; vehicles and driving; rail; shipping and maritime; mountain
rescue; ports; sustainable travel; aviation; search and rescue; local
transport; transport security and safety; and highway services.   Net spending
by arm's length bodies. Grants to Transport for London and local authorities
in respect of local transport programmes. Support for other minor transport
services; use of European funding for transport-related schemes;
administrative costs and associated other non-cash items falling in DEL.
Smart-ticketing and related technology. Work to support the government's new
relationship with the EU under the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and
associated workstreams. Grants to Transport for the North and Statutory
Bodies. Loans for Shimmer Relocation Assistance Scheme and transport-related
activities.   Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic. The
Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme. Financial assistance under the UK
Internal Markets Act 2020 in any area of the United Kingdom.   Losses and
special payments relating to the administration of the Department for
Transport and its associated agencies. Rail reform.   * Costs associated with
Network North plans and cancellation of HS2 Phase 2.       Income arising
from:   Sales of assets; loan repayments; interest receivable and European
grants for transport-related activities including roads; vehicles and driving;
rail; shipping and maritime; mountain rescue; ports; sustainable travel;
aviation; search and rescue; local transport; transport security and safety;
highway services.   Shipping and maritime income including, but not limited to
registration fees. Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part. Dividend income from
shareholdings. Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme. Fees for use of clean air
zones central services.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure
arising from:   Grant and pension provisions and associated non-cash costs
incurred by the Department for Transport and its associated agencies in
respect of transport-related activities including roads; vehicle and driving;
rail; sustainable travel; aviation; local transport; transport security and
safety; and highway services.   Shipping and maritime activities. Other costs
incurred by the Department for Transport and its associated agencies in
respect of transport-related activities including payments to General
Lighthouse Authorities.   Net spending by arm's length bodies. Governmental
response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Income arising from:
Loan repayments and other income for transport-related activities. Dividends
and interest receivable.

  Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, 2023-24   Department for Energy
Security and Net Zero       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Department for Energy Security and Net Zero Departmental
Expenditure Limit -267,884,000 -4,066,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
-42,109,524,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -1,103,106,000
Total -42,377,408,000 -4,066,000 -1,103,106,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit       Expenditure arising from:   The provision of support for business,
including support for specific industries, small and medium businesses,
regional programmes, programmes to promote research and development,
innovation and standards, best practice and sustainable development.   Support
for business and other non-domestic energy bills.   Support for consumer and
household energy bills.   The Energy Security Strategy, to enable or encourage
the supply of energy, including acquisition, and making available or enabling
access at government expense to, energy or related infrastructure.   Support
for energy-related activities including regulation, civil emergency planning,
energy resilience measures, environmental remediation and support and
facilitation for new and sustainable or more efficient, or less carbon
intensive energy sources, technologies, transmission and storage, security and
non-proliferation.   Respond to fuel poverty needs.   Measures to improve
energy efficiency, security and environmental practice; payments to energy
companies to reduce the impact of government policies on bills.   Work towards
international agreement on climate change; promote and support actions to
reduce national and global greenhouse gas emissions; climate modelling and
risk assessment.   Safety, environment and social impact programmes relating
to nuclear sites in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union and
other countries where future G8 Global Partnership related initiatives may be
pursued.   Inspections and compliance in accordance with regulatory
requirements and recovery of expenditure through cost sharing arrangements.
The efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations, including nuclear waste management
and decommissioning, and liabilities in respect of former shipbuilding
industry and former coal industry employees.   The management of the
Government's shareholder interest in the portfolio of commercial businesses
wholly or partly owned by Government; providing financial assistance to public
corporations, and trading funds.   The payment of subscriptions and
contributions to international organisations and fulfilment of international
treaty obligations.   Making payments to local authorities in respect of Local
Area Agreements and New Burdens responsibilities.   Activities of UK
Government Investments on behalf of the Department.   Specialist support
services, staff management and development; other departmental administration
and non- cash costs; payments towards the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority Combined Pension Scheme deficit; exchange risk and other guarantee
losses; publicity, promotion, publications, knowledge sharing initiatives and
departmental research and development; surveys, monitoring, statistics, advice
and consultancies; management of asset sales; contributions to fund cross
government initiatives; payments to HM Treasury towards the cost of
Infrastructure UK.   Expenditure arising from the UK's departure from the
European Union.   Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.
Grants to local authorities.   Funding organisations supporting departmental
objectives, including the department's executive agencies and arm's length
bodies and their subsidiaries.       Income arising from:   The Energy
Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy, including
acquisition, and making available or enabling access at government expense to,
energy or related infrastructure.   Receipts from other Government Departments
and devolved administrations.   Receipts from statutory regulators in respect
of expenses related to levies from industry.   Receipts from licences and
levies; dividends; equity withdrawals; interest on loans and loan repayments.
Income from investments; repayment of loans and investments; repayment of
capital grants; repayments of grants and contributions; receipts from asset
sales.   European Fast Stream receipts; repayment of working capital loans;
receipts from outside organisations  (including the EU) in respect of
advertising and publicity activities and materials; sale of research
publications; receipts from the European Social Fund to cover departmental
programmes; sponsorship funding.   Receipts and profit from the sale of
surplus land, buildings and equipment; rental income and repayments.
Receipts associated with the closure of partner organisations.   Receipts from
partner organisations. Commercial loan recoveries in relation to UK Coal
Production Limited.   General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services; HMRC receipts arising from the Research and
Development Expenditure Credit; and interest from bank accounts and exchange
rate gains and losses.   Income relating to legal services, consultancy,
publications, public enquiries, information, central services; occupancy
charge; administrative and professional services; EU receipts; refund of input
VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; fees for
services provided for energy resilience purposes; interest payments; non-cash
income.   Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.
Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of activities they
have agreed to fund in total or in part.   Government carbon offsetting scheme
receipts.   Receipt and retention of financial securities relating to the
decommissioning of renewable devices such as offshore wind.   Receipts
relating to the oil and gas industries (including petroleum licensing and levy
receipts).   Receipts relating to the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Support for
consumer and household, business and other non-domestic energy bills.   The
Energy Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy,
including acquisition, and making available or enabling access at government
expense to, energy or related infrastructure.   The efficient management and
discharge of liabilities falling to the Department and its partner
organisations, including nuclear waste management and decommissioning and
liabilities in respect of former shipbuilding industry and former coal
industry employees.   Bad debts, impairments and provisions; other non-cash
items.   Departmental administration; support for innovation and research
activity; miscellaneous programmes.   Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.   The management of asset sales.   Payment of corporation
tax.   Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.
Renewable Heat Incentive including Renewable Heat Premium Payments.
Impairment of loans and investments; Exchange rate gains and losses.
Efficient discharge of liabilities relating to contracts for difference for
the supply of electricity.

  Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 2023-24   Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Departmental Expenditure Limit 591,541,000 -710,463,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure -917,580,000 -79,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 200,000,000 Net
Cash Requirement -573,210,000 Total -126,039,000 -789,463,000 -573,210,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Expenditure
by Natural England and the Environment Agency. Represent forestry interests,
encourage good forestry practice, sustainable forest management and conduct
forest research. International policy, research, standard-setting and
monitoring to support sustainable forestry. Land grants, countryside access
and rights of way. Policy on commons, national parks and town and village
greens. Environmental protection and conservation, maintain air and ozone
quality, increase UK's environmental decontamination capabilities, deliver
social, environmental and economic programmes; Maintain water quality and a
resilient supply, support for management of inland waterways and obligations
under the Water Act 2003 and Water Act 2014. Support terrestrial, marine,
waterway environments and protection of water bodies. Fair charges for supply
of water and provision of sewerage services to customers.  Support protection
of species, wildlife management, habitat protection and conservation. Support
national and global biodiversity, geodiversity and research. Support for rural
and regional development.   Better waste management. Promotion and support for
sustainable development, consumption and production. Supporting development of
farming and cost-sharing initiatives, payments, losses and penalties relating
to the administration of European Union (EU) schemes including disallowance.
Compensation payments to producers and support for agriculture. Championing
hygienic production, marketing, delivery and processing in the agriculture,
fisheries and food industries. Support bee and fish conservation and health,
UK's responsibilities under the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES) and fishing industry. Support keeping, movement
tracing, trade with Northern Ireland, the EU and internationally, health and
welfare of animals, animal products and by-products, and marketing. Support a
sustainable, secure and healthy food supply; food labelling and composition
policy.   Flood risk management and development implications, land drainage
and sewerage. Exotic and endemic animal and plant disease policy portfolio and
eradication. Regulatory systems for chemicals, veterinary medicines and
pesticides. Radioactive waste management, justifying authority for new nuclear
power, pollution emergency response services, emergency response/contingency
services, noise mapping and manage other environmental risks. Consultation on
town, urban and country developments. Climate modelling, risk assessment and
adaptation.   Costs associated with ongoing repatriation of functions and
funds following exit from the EU and ongoing responses to the Covid-19
pandemic. Specialist support services; legacy and residual delivery body
costs; subsidies to support delivery bodies; staff management and development;
other departmental administration and non-cash costs; publicity, promotion;
awareness and publications; knowledge-sharing initiatives; research and
development; surveys; monitoring; statistics; advice and consultancies;
funding through Area-Based Grants; subscriptions and contributions to
international organisations; international policy-making; working with the EU;
licensing, approvals and certification; inspections; compliance and
enforcement in accordance with regulatory requirements. Voted loans in
relation to National Museums.       Income arising from:   Devolved
administrations, overseas Governments and European Commission; delivery body
funding contributions; provision of employee and financial shared services to
other public sector bodies; surveys; receipts from sale of carcasses and
vaccines; income from licensing; regulatory income; approvals; investments;
interest gained; donations and bequests; commercial activities; certification;
publications; public inquiries; information; inspections; registrations;
supervision and extensification; administration of grant; waste disposal;
recovery of costs incurred for Covid-19 waste water testing; capital loan
schemes; commissioned surveys; research; studies and provision of advice;
rental income and repayments; income from sale of electricity generated on
Defra group sites; occupancy charge; administrative training and professional
services; pension and redundancy contributions and knowledge-sharing
initiatives.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising
from:   Levy collection; publicity, promotion, awareness and publications;
research and development; market and supply chain analysis and support;
packaging recovery support; licensing, approvals and certification.
Specialist support services; staff management and development; delivery body
funding contributions; surveys; monitoring; statistics; advice and
consultancies; provision for future liabilities; bad debts; depreciation;
revaluations and impairment losses; legacy and residual delivery body costs.
Promotion of affordable insurance in relation to flood risk. Non-cash
financing charges relating to reservoir operating agreement financial
liabilities.       Non-Budget Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
Payments to devolved administrations.   * Prior period adjustments.
Income arising from:   Funding contributions to support delivery bodies.

  Department for Business and Trade, 2023-24   Department for Business and
Trade       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department for Business and Trade Departmental Expenditure Limit 361,602,000
343,146,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 853,371,000 -1,800,000,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 6,097,123,000 Total 1,214,973,000
-1,456,854,000 6,097,123,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Trade development and promotion, outward and
inward investment, the formulation and implementation of trade policy and
remedies, contribution to the cross government GREAT campaign, Support Trade
Remedies Authority as an arm's length body; including grants, associated
capital and other related expenditure and non-cash items, developing trade
relationships and supporting supply chain management and resilience, and
commencing, pursuing and defending UK trade disputes and UK's present and
future relationship with the World Trade Organization (WTO).   Administration
of the Department for Business and Trade, including continued administration
of ex-Department for International Trade, and associated offices; publicity,
promotion and publications; communications; purchase, acquisition, hire, lease
and rent of land, buildings, plant, equipment, machinery, vehicles and capital
assets; digital and IT; special payments, and domestic legal proceedings.
Funding to provide compensation to Group Litigation Order (GLO) claimants who
have suffered detriment arising from the errors in the Post Office Horizon IT
system or the other matters identified in the relevant High Court judgments.
The promotion of enterprise, innovation and increased productivity delivered
through international trade and investment, regional investment and delivering
regulatory reform, and measures to combat international bribery and
corruption.   The provision of support for business, including support for
specific industries, small and medium businesses, regional programmes,
programmes to promote research and development, innovation and standards, best
practice and sustainable development.   The provision of financial solutions
to accelerate private sector investment and address market failures through
the British Business Bank, and other similar intervention mechanisms.   The
promotion of strong, fair and competitive markets at home and abroad; measures
to protect investors and consumers including from unsafe products and unfair
practices; support for employment relations programmes and measures to promote
a skilled and flexible labour market.   The efficient management and discharge
of specific costs falling to the Department and its partner organisations
relating to outstanding personal injury claims against Thomas Cook.   The
management of the Government's shareholder interest in the portfolio of
commercial businesses wholly or partly owned by Government; providing
financial assistance to public corporations, and trading funds.   The
management of miscellaneous programmes including payments in respect of claims
for the restitution of the property of victims of Nazi persecution.   The
payment of subscriptions and contributions to international organisations and
fulfilment of international treaty obligations.   Increasing science and
research excellence in the United Kingdom and maximising its contribution to
society.   Making payments to local authorities in respect of Local Area
Agreements and New Burdens responsibilities.   Activities of UK Government
Investments on behalf of the Department.   Inspections and compliance in
accordance with EU regulatory requirements and recovery of expenditure through
cost sharing arrangements.   Expenditure arising from the UK's departure from
the European Union. Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic
and Inquiry. Grants to local authorities.   Funding organisations supporting
departmental objectives, including the department's executive agencies and
arm's length bodies and their subsidiaries.   Developing, implementing and
enforcing trade sanctions.   Regulating military and other sensitive exports
such as dual-use items done through a licensing system, ensuring UK exports
are consistent with national and international obligations and standards.   *
Contributions to any and all international-focused events.   The provision of
a partial guarantee to a lender making a loan to a ship-buyer or operator as
part of the Shipbuilding Credit Guarantee Scheme.       Income arising from:
The sale of goods and services relating to trade development and promotion,
outward and inward investment, the formulation and implementation of trade
policy, contribution to the cross government GREAT campaign; including
sponsorship; asset sales; insurance claims; recovery of costs incurred on
behalf of others; recovery of overpayment; capital grant in kind, income from
grant programmes.   Receipts from other Government Departments and devolved
administrations; the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service; the
Insolvency Service.   General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services.   Activities of UK Government Investments on
behalf of the Department.   Proceeds of Crime income generated in criminal
enforcement.   Receipts from statutory regulators in respect of expenses
related to levies from industry.   Receipts from licences and levies; Launch
Investment receipts; Capital Venture Funds receipts; premium income and other
receipts from Financial Guarantee schemes, and of dividends; equity
withdrawals; interest on loans and loan repayments from the Land Registry.
Income from investments; receipts from financial investments made by the
British Business Bank; repayment of loans and investments; repayment of
capital grants; repayments of grants and contributions; receipts from asset
sales.   Receipts and profit from the sale of surplus land, buildings and
equipment; rental income and repayments including from three domestic
properties on the estate of the European School of Culture at Culham,
Oxfordshire and from the National Physical Laboratory.   Receipts associated
with the closure of partner organisations.   Income relating to legal services
and legal proceedings, consultancy, publications, public enquiries,
information, central services; occupancy charge; administrative and
professional services; EU receipts; refund of input VAT not claimed in
previous years on departmental expenditure; interest payments; non-cash
income.   Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part.   Receipts from other
Government Departments and devolved administrations; the Advisory,
Conciliation and Arbitration Service and the Insolvency Service.   General
administration receipts of the Department, its executive agencies, its arm's
length bodies, and other partner organisations, including: the recovery of
salaries and associated costs for seconded staff; sale of goods and services.
Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.
Proceeds of Crime income generated in criminal enforcement.       Annually
Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Depreciation,
impairments, amortisation, revaluation, provisions, bad debts and other non-
cash items.   Departmental administration; financial guarantee schemes;
regional investment and programmes; enterprise for small and medium firms;
provision of support for business, including support for specific industries;
miscellaneous programmes.   The management of asset sales.   Payment of
corporation tax.   The provision of repayable credit facilities for Post
Office Ltd; contributions to partner organisations' pension schemes; and the
provision of parental leave schemes.   Activities of UK Government Investments
on behalf of the Department.   Impairment of loans and investments; Exchange
rate gains and losses.   The Redundancy Payments Service.   * The discharge of
liabilities falling to the Department in respect of former shipbuilding
industry historic claims.   Expenditure related to the appointment of an
Official Receiver with HMT approval.       Income arising from:   Receipts
from asset sales.   Refund of input VAT not claimed in previous years on
departmental expenditure; interest payments; repayments of grants and
contributions; non-cash income.   Activities of UK Government Investments on
behalf of the Department.   Receipt of interest on loans and loan repayments
from Post Office Ltd.   Dividends from shares held by Postal Services Holding
Ltd in Royal Mail.   * Receipts from Trading Funds.

  HM Land Registry, 2023-24   HM Land Registry       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Land Registry Departmental Expenditure
Limit 10,000,000 -10,000,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -5,000,000 Total 10,000,000 -10,000,000
-5,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Support and operational costs, transformation, technology, equipment, other
payments, associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The disposal, sale or donation
of capital assets.       Income arising from:   The disposal, sale or donation
of capital assets. Cost recoveries. Interest receivable. Receipt of VAT
refunds.

  Department for Work and Pensions, 2023-24   Department for Work and Pensions
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department
for Work and Pensions Departmental Expenditure Limit 71,855,000 -106,761,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 5,588,503,000 48,785,000 Non-budget Expenditure
413,641,000 Net Cash Requirement 6,056,311,000 Total 6,073,999,000 -57,976,000
6,056,311,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Payments relating to the administration and operating costs of the Department
to enable the Department to fulfil its obligations to all its client groups as
well as supporting the Governmental response to the ongoing and longer-term
impacts of the increased costs of living.   Expenditure promoting the
Department's aims and objectives in other organisations including Government
Departments, Local Authorities, Devolved Administrations and Crown and
Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies, including the Health and Safety
Executive, Remploy Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd, the Money and Pensions Service
including the provision of money and debt advice and the Department's pensions
and advisory arm's length bodies and private, public and voluntary
organisations.   Administrative costs associated with the Department's
contribution to cross-government programmes.   The costs incurred from
activity to support the detection and minimisation of fraud and error in the
benefit system and the collection of debt arising from overpayments of benefit
and on behalf of other public and private sector bodies.   Costs associated
with providing training and employment projects assisted by the European Union
(EU) through the European Social Fund and expenditure relating to exiting the
EU.   Information Technology, employee and financial services to other public
sector bodies and data technology services. Policy, research, and publicity
supporting the Department's activities. The UK's subscription to the
International Labour Organisation and international educational programmes.
Assistance and advice on employment and labour market issues to international
organisations and measures and assistance to promote financial and digital
inclusion.   Employment and training programmes. Payment of appropriate
grants, loans, compensation, benefits, and allowances.   Assisting people to
make plans for their retirement, including research into pensions, provision
of pension guidance, private pension industry regulatory work, programmes, and
measures to help improve independence and social inclusion for older people.
Provision for general levy payments to arm's length bodies.   Subsidies to
housing, billing, levying and local authorities for administration and payment
of Housing Benefit and other locally delivered support.   Depreciation and any
other non-cash costs falling in DEL including losses, special payments and
write offs.       Income arising from:   The administration of the Department
and its Crown and Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies in delivering their
statutory responsibilities, in accordance with the prevailing legislation and
regulations.   This includes receipts from staff, outward secondments, sale of
capital assets and non-capital items, the recovery of court costs, services
carried out on behalf of public and private sector bodies and members of the
public, EU activity, levy funded bodies and other associated income.
Receipts in respect of recoveries of payments and income from other government
departments and devolved administrations in respect of services the Department
provides.   Donations and bequests.       Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:   The payment of pensions, social security and other
benefits, grants, loans, allowances and payments to people of working age,
pensioners, and people with disabilities and their carers, in accordance with
the prevailing legislation and regulations, including the Governmental
response to the ongoing and longer term impacts of the increased costs of
living.   Costs and payments associated with the collapse of private pension
schemes.   Other losses, special payments and write offs together with
provisions and other non-cash costs falling in  AME.       Income arising
from:   Income arising from interest, receipts in respect of benefits paid in
lieu, recoveries of benefit payments and advances.       Non-Budget
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Payment of the Grant to the
Social Fund to fund Regulated, Discretionary and Winter Fuel payments.   Other
relevant non-budget expenditure.

  HM Revenue and Customs, 2023-24   HM Revenue and Customs       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Revenue and Customs
Departmental Expenditure Limit 318,951,000 124,030,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure -38,654,000 20,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 200,000,000 Net Cash
Requirement 893,854,000 Total 480,297,000 144,030,000 893,854,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administration in management, collection and payment of a range of taxes, tax
credits, benefits, reliefs, refunds, duties, levies, statutory payments,
allowances, loans, entitlements, regulatory and verification schemes.
Delivering policies held by other government departments, assistance to
devolved administrations and public bodies.   Law enforcement, criminal
investigation and provision of resources to independent investigatory bodies
including the Adjudicator's Office. Payments for the HMRC National Museum and
grants to the voluntary and community sector.   International Tax Cooperation
Agreements, customs controls, overseas tax administration, Official
Development Assistance and support of projects abroad.   Providing shared
services, Revenue and Customs Digital Technology Services Limited, services
provided to third parties and provision of trade information.   Administration
of the National Insurance Funds for Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
European Union transition and implementation of trade agreements.
Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic.   Payments to assist with cost
of living.   Non-cash items falling in DEL.   Valuations, administration,
setting and maintaining of assessments, advice, property services, payments of
Local Authority Rates on behalf of accredited foreign countries and non-cash
items incurred by the Valuation Office Agency. All activities, including
ensuring that systems are maintained and updated as necessary, to enable the
integrity of the lists for current use and preparing for any possible future
revaluations and reforms to council tax and non-domestic rate systems.
Income arising from:   Tax reliefs, entitlements, levies, regulatory and
verification schemes.   Recovery of costs associated with debt collection and
other law costs, overpayments, insurance and compensation claims, staff costs,
apprenticeships funding, valuation and other services, transaction fees and
excess cash receipts, and other services.   Services provided to the Valuation
Office Agency, Revenue and Customs Digital Technology Services Limited, other
government departments, devolved administrations, other bodies and
international parties and providing shared services.   Charges made for
attendance of officers, international commitments, travel expenses, use of
cars and rent,  and other services.   Sales of assets, information,
publications, statistical services, certificates and other services.   The
Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme and other receipts. Recovery of
administration costs of the National Insurance Funds, collection of National
Insurance contributions.   Income arising from contributions to programmes
conducted on behalf of government.   Governmental response to the Covid-19
pandemic.   Recoveries of income from other government departments (including
grants).   Non-cash items falling in DEL.   Valuations, administration,
setting and maintaining of assessments, advice, property services, payments of
Local Authority Rates on behalf of accredited foreign countries and non-cash
items incurred by the Valuation Office Agency.       Annually Managed
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Tax credits, benefits, reliefs,
refunds, duties, levies, allowances and entitlements.   Remittance of
irrecoverable debts, losses on asset revaluation and exchange rate movements.
Incentive payments for filing, transitional payments to charities, provisions
movements and payments that add capacity to debt recovery.   Governmental
response to the Covid-19 pandemic.   Non-cash items falling in AME.   Payments
of Rates on behalf of accredited Commonwealth and foreign countries and
certain international organisations and non-cash items.       Income arising
from:   Payments of Rates by accredited Commonwealth and foreign countries and
certain international organisations, refunds from local authorities.
Non-Budget Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   * Prior Period
Adjustment relating to a change in accounting treatment of leases.

  HM Treasury, 2023-24   HM Treasury       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Treasury Departmental Expenditure Limit
40,769,000 -840,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 47,969,924,000 -5,793,011,000
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -5,177,231,000 Total
48,010,693,000 -5,793,851,000 -5,177,231,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Core Treasury functions covering economic and
financial matters, including promoting and supporting the financial services
sector, illegal money lending, a financial sanctions regime, consumer credit,
legal claims, and the provision of guarantees. Assistance and compensation to
institutions, businesses, and individuals. The purchase of investments,
honours and dignities, gilt administration compensation payments and business
support measures. The administration costs of the department, depreciation,
and other non-cash items.   Funding for the Department's executive agencies,
the UK Debt Management Office (DMO), the National Infrastructure Commission
(NIC) and the Government Internal Audit Agency (GIAA). Costs associated with
the closure of the Office of Tax Simplification.   Spending on Treasury
related bodies including the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), the UK
Infrastructure Bank (UKIB), IUK Investments Limited, IUK Investments Holdings
Limited, HMT UK Sovereign SUKUK plc, the Royal Mint Advisory Committee on the
design of Coins, Medals, Seals and Decorations, UK Government Investments
Limited (UKGI), UK Asset Resolution Limited (UKAR) and European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).       Income arising from:   Assistance
to institutions, businesses, and individuals, including fees and charges for
the provision of guarantees, loan repayments, loan interest and fees,
dividends, the sale of shares and debt royalties, financial regulators,
insurance sponsorship and supervision responsibilities.   Recoveries in
respect of Honours and Dignities and the administration of the Treasury,
including rent from tenants and recharges for work and training, work of the
Government Finance Function and Government Economic and Social Research Team,
the sale of assets and redundant capital items.   The administration of Pool
Re and other related bodies.   DMO, GIAA, NIC and UKGI for services provided
to other government departments and organisations.   * Reimbursement of costs
incurred on behalf of other entities. Income and royalties from training.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Spending by HM
Treasury on costs related to investment in, and financial assistance to,
financial institutions and non-financial organisations, businesses, and
individuals. Includes credit easing, provision of guarantees, loans,
compensation, warranties and indemnities and Infrastructure finance. Movements
in the value of the Bank of England Asset Purchase Facility Fund (APF)
derivative and payments to the APF.   The production costs of UK coinage,
including manufacture, purchase of metal, storage, and distribution.   Help to
Buy ISA. Administration of the Equitable Life Payments Scheme and the creation
and use of provisions. The Royal Household, UKAR, Help to Buy (HMT) Limited,
Reclaim Fund Ltd (RFL), Pool Reinsurance Company Ltd (Pool Re) and the UKIB.
Costs associated with the UK exiting the European Union (EU) as per the
Withdrawal Agreement.   * The Debt Management Office.       Income arising
from:   Transactions with financial institutions and public and private
organisations, businesses and individuals including interest, fees and
charges, dividends, loan repayments, sale of shares and other assets. The
Mortgage Guarantee Scheme (MGS).   The EU as agreed in the Withdrawal
Agreement. Repayment of the UK's paid in capital from the European Investment
Bank (EIB).

  Cabinet Office, 2023-24   Cabinet Office       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Cabinet Office Departmental Expenditure
Limit 145,272,000 282,179,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 26,500,000
30,050,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 741,740,000 Total
171,772,000 312,229,000 741,740,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Administration and operation of the department in
connection with the following functions:   Seize the opportunities of Brexit,
through creating the world's most effective border to increase UK prosperity
and enhance security. Secure a safe, prosperous and resilient UK by
coordinating national security and crisis response, realising strategic
advantage through science and technology, and the implementation of the
Integrated Review. Advance equality of opportunity across the UK. Increase the
efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of government through modernising
and reforming the work of the Government Functions. Support the design and
implementation of the Government's and Prime Minister's priorities.
Activities of the Government Property Agency, Civil Service Commission,
Registrar of Consultant Lobbyists and Commission for Equality and Human
Rights.   Governance of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme and the
Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme.   Expertise in infrastructure financing,
delivery and assurance of major projects to support more effective management
and delivery across government.   Payments of grant and grant-in-aid to
organisations promoting Cabinet Office objectives, supporting not-for-profit
bodies associated with the public service, payments to and relating to former
Prime Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, reimbursement of Lord Lieutenants'
expenses, expenses in connection with honours, losses and special payments.
Underwriting of the Official Receiver, appointed as Liquidator, services
provided to other government departments and apprenticeship training for
staff.   Payment of recovered fraud into the Consolidated Fund, disbursement
of fraud recovery and the Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme (ARIS)
payments to government departments and public bodies, return of seized funds
and assets, fraud debt management, expenditure consequential to action by
Cabinet Office against fraud occurring in any government department and public
body.   Expenditure on non-current assets, depreciation, impairments, notional
audit fee, doubtful debts, bad debt write-offs and associated non-cash items
in DEL.       Income arising from:   Royalties, dividends, interest
receivable, income from the European Union (EU), rental income, sales of goods
and services, rebates from suppliers, refunds, cost recoveries, training
courses, expert and transactional services carried out on behalf of other
public sector bodies, shared services income, cost sharing arrangements,
contributions to programmes conducted on behalf of government, sale of
contractual rights, framework establishment and management fee income,
recoverable management costs of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme and
income from employers participating in the Principal Civil Service Pension
Scheme to cover administration of the scheme, secondment and loan receipts,
receipts from staff, repayment of grants and subsidies, income from services
provided to other government departments, notional grant income relating to
apprenticeship training for staff, repayment of loan principal and related
interest, sale or use of rights and assets, capital grant income, capital
grant-in-kind income on receipt of donated assets, capital receipts and income
on disposal of donated assets.   Recovery of fraudulently obtained funds and
assets through use of civil recovery and criminal powers, participation in the
Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme (ARIS), fraud debt management, interest
on seized funds.   Activities of the Government Property Agency, Registrar of
Consultant Lobbyists and Commission for Equality and Human Rights.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Provisions for
early departures, dilapidations, onerous contracts, revaluation of assets,
expected credit losses, and depreciation on donated assets, impairments and
associated non-cash items in AME.

  Scotland Office and Office of the Advocate General, 2023-24   Scotland
Office and Office of the Advocate General       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Scotland Office and Office of the Advocate
General Departmental Expenditure Limit 655,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure
0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 1,272,663,000 Net Cash Requirement 1,273,316,000
Total 1,273,318,000 0 1,273,316,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Administration costs in supporting the Secretary
of State for Scotland and the Advocate General for Scotland; providing advice
on policy and legislation; Boundary Commission for Scotland; capital, and
associated non-cash costs.       Income arising from:   Rental income;
receipts from legal services provided to other government departments;
receipts from other government departments and other miscellaneous receipts.
Non-Budget Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Payments to the
Scottish Consolidated Fund.

  Wales Office, 2023-24   Wales Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Wales Office Departmental Expenditure Limit 118,000
-1,046,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 20,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure
684,027,000 Net Cash Requirement 684,145,000 Total 684,165,000 -1,046,000
684,145,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administration costs for the Wales Office; Lord Lieutenants' expenditure;
capital, and associated non-cash costs; other non-cash costs.       Annually
Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   * AME cover for
impairments.       Non-Budget Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
Payments of a grant to the Welsh Consolidated Fund.

  Northern Ireland Office, 2023-24   Northern Ireland Office       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Northern Ireland Office
Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,572,000 6,852,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 2,000,000 1,172,000 Non-budget Expenditure 1,594,413,000 Net Cash
Requirement 1,602,037,000 Total 1,597,985,000 8,024,000 1,602,037,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Overseeing
the effective operation of the devolution settlement in Northern Ireland and
representing the interests of Northern Ireland within the UK Government.
Expenditure on administrative services, Head of State related costs, VIP
visits to Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and
Commissions or Reviews arising from the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, the
Northern Ireland Act 1998, the Northern Ireland Act 2000, the Northern Ireland
Act 2009, political development and inquiries, the Electoral Office for
Northern Ireland, elections and boundary reviews, legal services, security,
victims of the Troubles including the work of the Independent Commission for
the Location of Victims' Remains, Parades Commission for Northern Ireland,
Civil Service Commissioners for Northern Ireland, the Independent Reporting
Commission, compensation schemes under the Justice and Security (Northern
Ireland) Act 2007 and Terrorism Act 2000 and certain other grants. Expenditure
arising from the Stormont House Agreement, the Fresh Start Agreement, New
Decade New Approach and New Deal for Northern Ireland. Expenditure on
arrangements for the running of Hillsborough Castle. This will include
associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling in DEL.   *
Commissions or Reviews arising from the Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and
Reconciliation) Act 2023, including the work of the Independent Commission for
Reconciliation and Information Recovery.       Income arising from:
Recoupment of electoral expenses, receipts from the use of video conferencing
facilities, fees and costs recovered or received for work done for other
departments, freedom of information receipts, data protection act receipts,
recovery of compensation paid, recoupment of grant funding, costs and fees
awarded in favour of the Crown. Fees and costs recovered or received for the
use of the NIO estate.   Contributions from third parties to fund grant
programmes and monies from other departments to fund projects in Northern
Ireland.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
Provisions.       Non-Budget Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
Providing appropriate funding to the Northern Ireland Consolidated Fund for
the delivery of transferred public services as defined by the Northern Ireland
Act 1998, Northern Ireland Act 2000 and the Northern Ireland Act 2009. Grants
to the Northern Ireland Consolidated Fund and transfers of EU funds.

  National Savings and Investments, 2023-24   National Savings and Investments
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National
Savings and Investments Departmental Expenditure Limit -56,660,000  56,556,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
-104,000 Total -56,660,000 56,556,000 -104,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Cost of delivery of National Savings
and Investments operations, and leveraged activities with other bodies
including administration, operational research and development works,
transformation activity, other payments and non-cash items. Other payments
including payments in respect of recovered losses, and expenditure on capital
items.       Income arising from:   The leveraging of National Savings and
Investments core infrastructure and capabilities and associated contracts
including rent receipts and other receipts such as loss recovery payments. The
sale of assets resulting in some capital income being used as sale proceeds.

  Charity Commission, 2023-24   Charity Commission       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Charity Commission Departmental
Expenditure Limit 950,000 -750,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 200,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 650,000 Total 1,150,000 -750,000
650,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Revenue and Capital expenditure in relation to the registration and regulation
of charities. Expenditure in connection with depreciation and other non-cash
items in DEL.       Income arising from:   Providing services, in both the UK
and abroad, relating to knowledge and expertise in the field of registration
and regulation of charities. Shared working approaches with other Government
Departments.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising
from:   * Expenditure in relation to the registration and regulation of
charities. Expenditure in connection with legal provisions.

  Competition and Markets Authority, 2023-24   Competition and Markets
Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Competition and Markets Authority Departmental Expenditure Limit -5,000,000
5,000,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 7,000,000 1,000,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 0 Total 2,000,000 6,000,000 0
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Advancing and
safeguarding the economic interests of UK consumers, businesses and the
economy; enforcing competition and consumer law, including payment for
information; analysing and monitoring markets; merger control; advocacy;
information, education and advice; costs in respect of reactive and proactive
litigation; providing expert, independent, trusted advice and economic
analysis to support the four nations to trade effectively within the UK
Internal Market; providing advice to public authorities and report on the
effective operation of the subsidy control regime; operationalising and
preparing for the new regulatory regime to implement and enforce a new pro-
competition regime for digital markets; administrative and operational costs,
associated depreciation and any other non-cash items falling in DEL.
Supporting the Government's Places for Growth programme by increasing presence
in Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff, and establishing new offices in Manchester
and Darlington.   * Statutory information gathering powers for the monitoring
function for road fuel.       Income arising from:   Recovery of legal costs;
contributions from other departments towards the costs of market studies;
payments from the Home Office under the asset recovery incentivisation scheme;
fine income permitted for offset against litigation spend; payments for
information and publications; income from office space rental and other
property related income, including compensation from the landlord; fees for
common services provided to other organisations; recoveries of salaries of
staff on loan or seconded to outside bodies; sale of plant and machinery;
recoveries in connection with private telephone calls, postal and bank
charges.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
Provisions and other non-cash costs.

  The Statistics Board, 2023-24   The Statistics Board       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Statistics Board Departmental
Expenditure Limit 23,519,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 3,600,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 28,519,000 Total 27,119,000 0
28,519,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
The collection, preparation and dissemination of economic, social, labour
market and other statistics; undertaking and commissioning statistical
research, and assisting statistical research by providing access to data;
promoting and safeguarding the quality of official statistics, monitoring the
production and publication of official statistics; conducting a programme of
assessment of existing and candidate National Statistics against the Code of
Practice for Official Statistics; providing analysis of statistics to enhance
understanding; coordinating the design, collection, preparation, supply,
quality management of the UK's European statistics, provision of business
support and IT services and associated non-cash items.   Undertaking of
various roles in an international context.       Income arising from:
Provision of social surveys and the provision of other services (statistical
and corporate); provision of statistical related IT platforms to other public
sector organisations; recovery costs of shared projects; sales of statistical
data supply services, analyses and publications; research grants or funding
for Statistical Research; receipts from EU and other overseas contracts;
rental income; recovery of Apprenticeship Levy; the provision of business
support services and through the sale of fixed assets.       Annually Managed
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Creation of provision in respect
of onerous contracts; early departure costs; and other provisions and
associated non-cash items.

  Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills, 2023-24
Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office for
Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills Departmental
Expenditure Limit -68,000 150,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 100,000 400,000
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 82,000 Total 32,000 550,000
82,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Promoting improvement in the quality of education, skills, care, and support
for children and young people through independent inspection, regulation and
reporting. Sharing research findings and good practice through mechanisms
including publications, seminars, conferences and collaboration with and
support to other regulators.   Governmental emergency responses including (but
not limited to) advice and support, and the deployment or secondment of staff
to and from Ofsted in support of the response.   This includes related
administrative and operational costs, capital expenditure, and associated
depreciation and other non-cash costs falling within DEL.       Income arising
from:   The registration of childcare providers, inspection for the care and
support of children and young people, some maintained schools, independent
schools and further education colleges, publicly funded adult education and
training and accreditation of online education providers.   Transactions with
departmental and other government bodies: receipts for inspection and other
related activity undertaken on behalf of other Government departments, and
overseas government bodies (where clearance has been provided by the relevant
UK Government department).   Miscellaneous asset sales and recovery of costs,
property charges made to minor occupiers, and receipts for goods and services
provided by Ofsted.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure
arising from:   Provisions and other non-cash items in AME.

  Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation, 2023-24   Office of
Qualifications and Examinations Regulation       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office of Qualifications and Examinations
Regulation Departmental Expenditure Limit 875,000 168,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 938,000 Total
875,000 168,000 938,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure
arising from:   The regulation of the validity of general, vocational and
other qualifications throughout their lifecycle; promoting public confidence
in regulated qualifications; continuing delivery of vocational and technical
education reforms; monitoring and evaluating reformed qualifications; and
evaluating the validity of National Assessments.   Conducting relevant
investigation, research and analysis, and undertaking engagement and
consultation with stakeholders to provide assurance that regulated
qualifications are fit-for-purpose and support good educational and training
outcomes.   Exploring, investigating and acknowledging opportunities for
innovation, including the use of artificial intelligence to improve the
quality of marking in high-stakes qualifications.   Developing the skills and
capabilities of our people, and developing and investing in our digital
systems to secure efficiency and value for money.       Income arising from:
The Department for Education to support ongoing reform programmes, and, where
required, to enable Ofqual to take on new reform programmes as they arise.
The recovery of costs associated with the monetary penalties imposed on
awarding organisations for breaches of Ofqual's regulations.   The recovery of
costs associated with the provision of data and analysis to regulatory
counterparts and to other Government departments; for provision of support
relating to IT/digital development, including developments to the register of
qualifications; and income from the disposal of hardware as part of ongoing IT
refresh. Receipts relating to the recovery of salaries and associated costs
for seconded staff.   Receipts relating to the recovery of building-related
costs.

  Food Standards Agency, 2023-24   Food Standards Agency       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Food Standards Agency Departmental
Expenditure Limit 1,337,000 -651,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 40,000
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 5,686,000 Total 1,337,000
-611,000 5,686,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising
from:   Delivering the FSA's statutory purpose of protecting public health and
consumers' wider interests in relation to food. The five-year strategy,
published in April 2022, said that the FSA would continue to work to ensure
that consumers have food you can trust. By this we mean a food system in which
food is safe, food is what it says it is and food is healthier and more
sustainable. All of the FSA's work contributes to this strategic mission and
vision, and to deliver the above FSA will pursue activities incurring costs
associated with: managing research and evidence gathering, food incidents,
investigations, prosecutions, combating food fraud and crime, deploying the
risk analysis process for food and animal feed safety issues, product
authorisations, policy development, enforcement and management of regulated
products; inspections, meat hygiene and official controls; controls on primary
production; animal health and welfare monitoring, surveillance and
enforcement; supporting local authorities and port health authorities to
deliver food and/or feed law official controls; support to public analyst
laboratories; regulatory reform, developing new regulatory frameworks and
reviewing retained European Union (EU) law; international and border activity
on official controls; support for trade negotiations, market access and
related activities with EU and non-EU countries; engaging internationally to
influence key priorities; Windsor Framework activity on food safety and
standards; collaboration with or on behalf of UK and international public
bodies; Government's wider aims to ensure that food is healthier and more
sustainable including working with devolved governments; digital and data
services for food businesses, local authorities and consumers; information and
communication services to food businesses and consumers; FSA's annual report
on food standards; advice and education, marketing and publications;
accrediting third party auditors; staff and overhead costs; debt recovery,
payments of penalties and interest, funding for depreciation, audit fees and
other non-cash items.       Income arising from:   Meat official controls and
other official activities, including enforcement and export related
activities; wine standards and other food-related activities concerning
international market access; risk assessments, evidence and research, testing,
sampling, food crime - Proceeds of Crime Act (POCA) activities, receipt of
court costs and fees; enforcement and surveillance work for, and recharge of
expenditure relating to, work done in collaboration with or on behalf of UK,
EU and non-EU countries' public bodies; assessments/consultations on
radioactive discharges; staff loans and secondments; sub-letting of
accommodation and associated services; disposal of fixed assets; and income
arising from capital grants in kind.       Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:   Creation, adjustment and utilisation of provisions
relating to pensions, early exits and retirements, bad debts, onerous leases,
personal injury and legal claims; revaluations and write off of bad debts; and
other non-cash items.

  The National Archives, 2023-24   The National Archives       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The National Archives Departmental
Expenditure Limit 2,800,000 -735,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 50,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,065,000 Total 2,850,000
-735,000 2,065,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising
from:   Ensuring the UK public record - past and future - remains authentic,
available and accessible to all including: providing leadership and support to
the archive sector across England and Wales; leading on policy and best
practice in knowledge and information management for the public sector;
setting standards and driving forward the public sector information re-use
agenda; official publishing services for the whole of government including
publishing all UK legislation and making it accessible online;  managing Crown
and Parliamentary copyright; administration of The National Archives and other
non-cash items.       Income arising from:   Sale of copies of documents; sale
of publications and other items and services; professional fees; fees
receivable from service providers; sale of non-current assets; grants received
to carry out specific projects; reproduction fees and royalties for the
publication of images; Crown copyright fees and royalties; fees for the
management of third parties' copyright; fees for the management of the Office
of the King's Printer for Scotland; income from contractual arrangements for
official publishing and partnerships to make historical records electronically
accessible; sales and recovery of costs for goods/services provided to other
government departments, public bodies and the general public; and donations
from the public in support of the work of The National Archives.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   * Onerous lease
provision and other AME non-cash items.

  United Kingdom Supreme Court, 2023-24   United Kingdom Supreme Court
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   United
Kingdom Supreme Court Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 811,000 Annually
Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 811,000
Total 0 811,000 811,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure
arising from:   Operation of the UK Supreme Court (UKSC), Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council (JCPC). Education and outreach activities of the UKSC,
JCPC and the United Kingdom's legal and constitutional system, costs
associated with Wider Market Initiatives, cost of running selection
commissions for the appointment of the Justices and maintenance of links with
apex courts in other countries. The modernisation of the UKSC and JCPC systems
and processes to improve court users' experience, increase transparency and
public trust and bolster the UKSC's reputation as a world leading Court.
Income arising from:   Court fees and receipts, contributions from the
devolved government and court services in England and Wales, Scotland, and
Northern Ireland, to contribute to the cost of the administration of justice
in the UK Supreme Court and Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, receipts
of VAT refunds on contracted out services and receipts from Wider Market
Initiatives, recovery of staff costs for staff on loan or seconded to outside
bodies, payments for information and publications, postal and bank charge
recoveries, receipts from shop sales, and any other miscellaneous income.

  Government Actuary's Department, 2023-24   Government Actuary's Department
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Government
Actuary's Department Departmental Expenditure Limit 400,000 0 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 30,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 1,000,000
Total 400,000 30,000 1,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Administration costs incurred in providing
actuarial and specialist analysis, advice and assurance to Government and
other clients, principally in the public sector, and associated non-cash
items.       Income arising from:   Receipts for providing actuarial and
specialist analysis, advice and assurance in a range of areas, including
employer-sponsored pension arrangements and other employee benefits, social
insurance, health care financing arrangements, risk management and strategic
investment, asset/liability considerations, pension and insurance regulation
etc. as well as accommodation and facilities management services.
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   The setting up
and use of provisions and other associated non-cash items.

  Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, 2023-24   Office of Gas and
Electricity Markets       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Departmental Expenditure
Limit 14,260,000 260,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 1,000 Net Cash Requirement -12,485,000 Total 14,261,000 260,000
-12,485,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administrative and operational costs; development and administration of
licensed regimes and industry processes; payments to other government
departments; co-operation with international regulators; services to other
government and energy related organisations; administration and payments made
under the Green Gas Support Scheme; administration of energy efficiency,
offshore transmission and other environmental schemes; regulation of and
participation in the Smart Meter programme; payments in relation to legal
costs arising from regulatory duties; adjustments to provisions; depreciation
and other non-cash items in DEL. Notional expenditure relating to the Supplier
of Last Resort (SoLR) levy.       Income arising from:   Gas and electricity
licence fees; receipts in respect of the administration of the Offshore Tender
regime; income from fees and charges levied under the Gas Act 1986 and the
Electricity Act 1989, as amended by the Utilities Act 2000; income from fees
and charges levied under the Green Gas Support Scheme; bank interest, receipts
in respect of letting, disposal, vacation or occupation of accommodation;
income from services to other government and energy related organisations;
bank interest and other cost recovery receipts. Notional income relating to
the Supplier of Last Resort (SoLR) levy.       Non-Budget Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:   * Prior Period Adjustment relating to the Supplier
of Last Resort (SoLR) levy.

  Office of Rail and Road, 2023-24   Office of Rail and Road       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office of Rail and Road
Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,000 900,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,000,000 Total 1,000 900,000
2,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Administration of ORR, its support establishments, all associates of non-cash
items and all activities as the combined economic and safety regulator
including health and safety matters, the regulation of access to railways, the
regulation of HS1 stations, the promotion of rail services, efficiencies and
economy for those providing railway services, protecting the interests of
railway services and railway users, payment of the apprenticeship levy,
sponsorship of the Rail Ombudsman and providing advice on the future funding
framework for Transport for London.   All activities as highways monitor with
responsibility for monitoring and enforcing the performance and efficiency of
National Highways' delivery of the government's roads investment strategy and
its management and operation of the strategic road network. Support for
activities as highways monitor.   Acting as the appeal body, controlling the
network statement, monitoring the competitive situation of rail services, and
overseeing the efficient management and fair and non-discriminatory use of
rail infrastructure for Northern Ireland and for the infrastructure manager of
the Core Valley Lines.       Income arising from:   Regulatory licences,
concession agreements, levies, subscription fees, charges for courses and
officers loaned to other organisations, income from High Speed 1 Limited;
Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission; Channel Tunnel Authority; NIR
Networks Limited; Amey Keolis Infrastructure/Selwaith Amey Keolis Limited;
Transport for Wales; and government grants.   Income from recovery actions in
connection with successful legal cases. Charges for rental, administrative and
other services, and other activities to other government departments,
executive and non-executive non-departmental public bodies. Overhead
recharges. Grant funding from the Department for Transport in respect of the
monitoring and enforcing the performance of National Highways including its
delivery of the government's road investment strategy and its management and
operation of the strategic road network, and for providing advice on the
future funding framework for Transport for London.

  Water Services Regulation Authority, 2023-24   Water Services Regulation
Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Water Services Regulation Authority Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,000
76,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 77,000 Total 1,000 76,000 77,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Regulation of, and the application of competition
law to, the water and sewerage industry in England and Wales. Administration
and operation costs of the department, including depreciation, pension
payments, provisions and other non-cash items. Payments in relation to legal
costs arising from carrying out legal functions including regulatory and/or
competition functions.       Income arising from:   Regulatory licence fees
and otherwise recovering Ofwat's costs and expenses associated with the
regulation of, and being a competition authority in relation to, the water and
sewerage industry in England and Wales.   Contributions towards former
Director Generals' pension payments.   Recovery in respect of administration
and operation costs of the department, including salary recovery for staff on
loan or seconded, contributions relating to participants' share of
collaborative projects, sale of fixed assets and any other miscellaneous cost
recovery receipts.

  Export Credits Guarantee Department, 2023-24   Export Credits Guarantee
Department       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Export Credits Guarantee Department Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,000
-1,200,000 Annually Managed Expenditure -200,000,000 -1,000,000,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -999,999,000 Total -199,999,000
-1,001,200,000 -999,999,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure
arising from:   The running of ECGD's operational activity (operating costs of
the Department), including Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic.   * Services provided on behalf of other government departments
including payment for services incurred on behalf of other government
departments.       Income arising from:   Some underwriting activity, notional
income in respect of the Apprenticeship Levy and sponsorship income raised to
defray specific marketing costs.   * Services provided on behalf of other
government departments including recoveries of income from other government
departments and third parties.       Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:   Arrangements made by ECGD for supporting or
developing UK exports, for insuring UK investments overseas and for
transaction and portfolio management, and expenditure arising from the
creation and increase in provisions related to ECGD's operational activities.
* Services provided on behalf of other government departments including
payment for services incurred on behalf of other government departments.
Income arising from:   Arrangements made by ECGD for supporting or developing
UK exports, for insuring UK investments overseas for transaction and portfolio
management, and income arising from the release of and decrease in provisions
related to ECGD's operational activities.   * Services provided on behalf of
other government departments including recoveries of income from other
government departments and third parties.

  Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and the Health
Service Commissioner for England, 2023-24   Office of the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration and the Health Service Commissioner for
England       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and the Health
Service Commissioner for England Departmental Expenditure Limit 302,000 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
268,000 Total 302,000 0 268,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Operational and administration costs, capital
expenditure, and associated depreciation and other non-cash costs falling in
DEL.       Income arising from:   Monies received from the recovery of costs
or miscellaneous income not classified elsewhere.

  House of Lords, 2023-24   House of Lords       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of Lords Departmental Expenditure
Limit -4,713,000 5,678,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 12,100,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 5,866,000 Total 7,387,000 5,678,000
5,866,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:
Members' expenses and allowances; administrative and accommodation costs,
including staff salaries and pensions; security; stationery; printing;
financial assistance to opposition parties; grants and grants-in-aid to
Parliamentary bodies and organisations who promote the House of Lords'
objectives; and associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling
in DEL.       Income arising from:   Catering and retail sales; rental income;
reproductions of works of art; pension scheme related income; fees; income
from the sale of assets; other charges and receipts in connection with
parliamentary activities.       Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure
arising from:   Pensions; administrative and accommodation costs; and
provisions and other non-cash costs falling in AME.

  Armed Forces Pension and Compensation Schemes, 2023-24   Armed Forces
Pension and Compensation Schemes       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Armed Forces Pension and Compensation Schemes
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 100,000,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 0 Total 100,000,000 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Payment of
pensions, lump sum benefits, transfers out and associated non-cash items to
persons covered by the scheme. Provision is also made for payment of those
benefits outside the scheme: Short Service Gratuities, Resettlement Grants and
Criminal Injuries Compensation Overseas.       Income arising from:   MOD
employer contributions (Superannuation Contributions Adjusted for Past
Experience), transfers in from other schemes and purchases of added years.

  National Health Service Pension Scheme, 2023-24   National Health Service
Pension Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
National Health Service Pension Scheme Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 111,271,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 631,293,000 Total 111,271,000 0 631,293,000   Annually Managed
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Pensions, allowances,
gratuities, transfers to alternative pension arrangements, refunds of
contributions, compensation for early retirement, to or in respect of persons
engaged in health services or in other approved employment and other cash and
non-cash items.       Income arising from:   Pension contributions, inward
transfer values, employer contributions relating to the Compensation for
Premature Retirement Scheme, cost of scheme administration levy, from or in
respect of persons engaged in health services or in other approved employment.

  Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales), 2023-24   Teachers' Pension
Scheme (England and Wales)       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales) Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 3,234,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -294,288,000 Total 3,234,000 0 -294,288,000
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Superannuation
allowances and gratuities, and other related expenditure, in respect of
teachers and the widows, widowers, children and dependants of deceased
teachers, and for premature retirement and compensation payments made to
members of the Teachers' Pension Scheme and on behalf of their employers, the
cost of paying the Department for Education to administer the scheme; and
associated non-cash items.       Income arising from:   Receipts from
employers' and employees' superannuation contributions; transfer values
received; deductions from returns of contributions towards payment in lieu of
graduated national insurance contributions equivalent premiums; recovery of
contributions equivalent premiums from the state pension scheme; amounts
received from employers of teachers' scheme members in reimbursement of the
cost of premature retirement compensation payments on their behalf by Capita;
receipt of administration charge from employers for the specific purpose of
meeting the costs of administering the scheme.

  UK Atomic Energy Authority Pension Schemes, 2023-24   UK Atomic Energy
Authority Pension Schemes       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   UK Atomic Energy Authority Pension Schemes Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 32,281,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 35,304,000 Total 32,281,000 0 35,304,000
Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   Payments of
pensions etc. to members of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority pension
schemes, related expenditure and non-cash items.       Income arising from:
Receipts of employees' and employers' contributions and inward transfers.

  Ministry of Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme, 2023-24   Ministry of
Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 21,512,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 40,623,000 Total 21,512,000 0
40,623,000   Annually Managed Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:
Pensions etc, in respect of members of the Judicial Pensions Scheme, and for
other related services.   * McCloud remedy compensation payments in respect of
members of the Judicial Pensions Schemes.       Income arising from:
Accruing Superannuation Liability Charges (ASLCs); and scheme members' pension
contributions.

  Cabinet Office: Civil Superannuation, 2023-24   Cabinet Office: Civil
Superannuation       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Cabinet Office: Civil Superannuation Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 100,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 150,000,000 Total 100,000,000 0 150,000,000   Annually Managed
Expenditure       Expenditure arising from:   The superannuation of civil
servants; pensions etc., and other pensions and non-recurrent payments, for
other related services and related non-cash items.       Income arising from:
Charges received from departments and others on account of the cost of pension
cover provided for their staff. Periodical contributions for widows',
widowers', and dependants' benefits. Other superannuation contributions,
transfer values and bulk transfer receipts.

  Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme, 2023-24   Royal Mail Statutory Pension
Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
70,000,000 Total 0 0 70,000,000

  House of Commons: Administration, 2023-24   House of Commons: Administration
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of
Commons: Administration Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent 21,500,000
-5,000,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement -5,000,000 Total 21,500,000 -5,000,000 -5,000,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent       Expenditure arising from:   General
administration of the House of Commons and activities undertaken to meet
Parliament's objectives; associated commercial activities; grants to
organisations who promote the House of Commons' objectives; and other non-cash
costs.       Income arising from:   Rental, fees and charges in connection
with activities within Parliament.

  Parliamentary Works Grant, 2023-24   Parliamentary Works Grant
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Parliamentary Works Grant Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent -5,500,000
400,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement -5,100,000 Total -5,500,000 400,000 -5,100,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent       Expenditure arising from:   Paying of a
grant to the Delivery Authority to support its activities and operations in
delivering the restoration and renewal programme of the Palace of Westminster
and related works on behalf of the Houses of Parliament, including all
necessary costs incurred and the audit costs associated with both this
Estimate and the Delivery Authority.       Income arising from:   Any income
arising from the sale of goods and services or the secondment of staff in
furthering the delivery of the restoration and renewal programme.

  National Audit Office, 2023-24   National Audit Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National Audit Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent 3,700,000 -500,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0
0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 3,200,000 Total 3,700,000
-500,000 3,200,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent
Expenditure arising from:   Expenditure and associated non-cash items incurred
in the provision of independent assurance and information to Parliament on the
proper accounting for central government expenditure, revenue, assets and
liabilities, including compliance with laws and regulations, and in the
economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which central government resources
have been used; and the provision of independent assurance and information and
advice to a wide range of other public, international, and overseas bodies and
to members of the public.       Income arising from:   The provision of audit
and assurance services to a range of organisations, including international
and overseas bodies, and income from the rental of surplus office space,
income arising from the disposal of assets and miscellaneous receipts.

  The Electoral Commission, 2023-24   The Electoral Commission       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Electoral Commission
Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,914,000 -550,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,064,000 Total 1,914,000
-550,000 2,064,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising
from:   Registration of political parties, recognised third parties and
permitted participants; regulation and reporting of the income and expenditure
of political parties, candidates, third parties and permitted participants;
making grants to eligible parties for policy development; reviewing and
advising on the administration and law of elections and encouraging best
practice; providing guidance, and reporting, on the conduct of elections and
referendums; determining standards of performance for those administering
electoral registration, elections and referendums, and collecting information
in relation to those standards and to expenditure on elections and
campaigning; conducting certain referendums and promoting public awareness of
electoral systems.       Income arising from:   Registration and re-
registration of political parties; providing guidance, and reporting, on the
conduct of elections and referendums; determining standards of performance for
those administering electoral registration, elections and referendums, and
collecting information in relation to those standards and to expenditure on
elections and campaigning; conducting certain referendums and promoting public
awareness of electoral systems, including Devolved Administrations; and any
other non-cash items.

  Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority, 2023-24   Independent
Parliamentary Standards Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority
Departmental Expenditure Limit -273,000 273,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0
0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 0 Total -273,000 273,000 0
Departmental Expenditure Limit       Expenditure arising from:   Operation and
administration of the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority (IPSA),
and all activities connected to its purpose. Determination and operation of a
business costs and expenses scheme for Members of Parliament, payment of the
salaries, business costs and expenses of Members of Parliament and their
staff. Determination of policy for the administration and salaries and
pensions for Members of Parliament. Conducting reviews and investigations
carried out under the auspices of the Office of the Compliance Officer.
Depreciation and other non-cash costs. The reimbursement of travel and
subsistence costs for meeting attendance of IPSA appointed managers of the UK
MEP Pension Scheme.       Income arising from:   Funding received from the
House to cover the costs of interns employed by some MPs. Miscellaneous
repayments made under the MPs' Scheme of Business Costs and Expenses.

  Appropriation of excesses for financial year 2022-23

Section 5

  Department of Health and Social Care, 2022-23   Department of Health and
Social Care       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department of Health and Social Care Departmental Expenditure Limit
946,445,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 0 Total 946,445,000 0 0   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:   Revenue (administration and programme) and capital
expenditure of the Department of Health and Social Care and other designated
bodies, including the NHS Commissioning Board, known as NHS England,
(including Clinical Commissioning Groups), NHS Providers, Special Health
Authorities, Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies, the UK Health Security
Agency and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.   Health
and social service expenditure to and on behalf of the NHS including the
settlement of claims for personal injury and clinical negligence, local
authorities and other national bodies.   Local government services, prison
health services, medical, scientific and technical services, services for
disabled persons, education and training, grants to voluntary organisations
and other bodies, information services, breast implant registry, Healthy Start
programme, health promotion activities, research and development, expenditure
incurred in relation to life sciences and EU Exit.   Governmental response to
the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic. This includes, but is not exhaustive: NHS
Test and Trace, personal protective equipment, Covid-19 medicines, treatments
and equipment and the supply, distribution and deployment of Covid-19 vaccines
and associated activities.   Non-departmental public bodies' expenditure on
health and social care protection, training and regulation functions.
Expenditure to charitable trusts and companies providing financial support and
other relief to persons who contracted HIV and Hepatitis C through receiving
NHS treatment.   Forming, investing in or providing loans or guarantees to
companies that will provide facilities or services to the NHS.   Services
provided to or on behalf of devolved governments and other government
departments.   Medical treatment given to people from the United Kingdom in
the European Economic Area and other countries.   Subsidies and grants to
public corporations and local authorities, payments to local authorities for
use in local area agreements. Official Development Assistance projects and
activities.   Subscriptions to international organisations and international
and commercial facilitation relating to healthcare.   Payments for services
incurred by other government departments, including expenditure on behalf of
the Department for Work and Pensions.   Associated depreciation and any other
non-cash costs (including provisions, impairments and impairment of
receivables).   Expenditure incurred in relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine
Taskforce.       Income arising from:   Charges for accommodation, sales of
goods and services, income generation schemes. Local authorities under joint
financing arrangements. Fines and penalty notices. Medical and dental
education levy. Licensing of software, use of NHS logo, settlement of legal
claims, dividends and interest from loans and investments, intellectual
property, research and development, prescription fraud charges, NHS
prescriptions, dental and ophthalmic fraud charges.   Recoveries from patients
in respect of incorrect claims for eligibility including for NHS treatment and
general ophthalmic services. Payments from manufacturers or suppliers of
medicinal products to control the cost of health service medicines and
purchasing and supply agency arrangements.   Sales of medicines, vaccines,
antivenoms, antitoxins and equipment, premiums applied to the sale of stock.
Income from the Scottish Government, the Welsh Government, Northern Ireland,
Channel Islands and Isle of Man for services provided for devolved or reserved
work.   Provision of policy and advice to other countries and care trusts.
Maintenance of the National Joint Registry, conference and meeting events,
prison health services, contributions to substance misuse funding, use of
radio communication bandwidth.   Income secured by counter fraud services from
all sources.   Administration income from seconded officers, cost of legal
proceedings, staff telephone calls, European fast stream programme. Recoveries
and income from other government departments, recoveries and income from ALBs
(including capital and grants), special health authorities and NHS bodies.
Selling services into wider markets and open government, payment by commercial
tenants in DHSC buildings and compensation income.   Licence fees and
royalties, sales of publications, contributions by members of the public,
insurance claims and social exclusion programmes. Other European Economic Area
countries for NHS treatment of their residents. Income collected for the
immigration health surcharge.   Sales of subsidised dried milk. Income from
the European Union.   Contributions from the mobile phone industry, charitable
contributions, refunds from voluntary organisations. Contributions to local
authority grant schemes. Contributions and refunds towards communication
campaigns contracts. Penalty charges, interest and dividends on trading fund
loans. Income collected on behalf of health innovation and education clusters.
Income received from the sale of capital assets. Income received from the
disposal of financial assets. Income associated with the acquisition of
assets.   Income arising from Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.   Income arising from activities in relation to the
Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce and Covid-19 Antiviral Taskforce.

