Title: The Goods Vehicles (International Road Transport Permits and Haulage Within the EU) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-09-18
Description: These Regulations regulate the use of goods vehicles on journeys to, in or through the countries and territories in relation to which the United Kingdom has a relevant international agreement (within the meaning given by section 1(4) of the Haulage Permits and Trailer Registration Act 2018 (c. 19) (“the 2018 Act”)) relating to the transport of goods by road, and the movement of goods between two points in the EU.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/679

## The Goods Vehicles (International Road Transport Permits and Haulage Within the EU) Regulations 2024

    Road Traffic       Trade

  Made   21st May 2024

  Coming into force   11th June 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1(1) and (3), 2(1) and (2), 3(1) and (2), 4(1)(a) and
(2), 5 and 25(1) of the Haulage Permits and Trailer Registration Act 2018  and
section 31 of the European Union (Future Relationship) Act 2020 .       In
relation to the provision made under the Haulage Permits and Trailer
Registration Act 2018, in accordance with section 23(1) of that Act, the
Secretary of State has consulted such persons as the Secretary of State thinks
fit.           A draft of these Regulations has been laid before, and approved
by a resolution of, each House of Parliament in accordance with paragraphs
6(3) and 34(1) to (3) of Schedule 5 to the European Union (Future
Relationship) Act 2020.

### Preliminary provisions

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Goods Vehicles (International Road Transport Permits and
Haulage Within the EU) Regulations 2024, and

1.b

come into force on the 21st day after the day on which they are made.

#### Extent

2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

3

3.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2018 Act ” means the Haulage Permits and Trailer Registration Act
2018 ;           “ agreement ” means a relevant international agreement ;
“ application ” means an application under regulation 8;           “
application fee ” has the meaning given in regulation 7(1);           “
carriage ” includes haulage;           “ ECMT agreements ” means—         the
Protocol concerning the European Conference of Ministers of Transport done at
Brussels on 17th October 1953 ,           Resolution No. 26 concerning the
Actual Coming into Force of a Multilateral Quota for International Transport
of Goods by Road done at The Hague on 14th June 1973 , and
Consolidated Resolution No. 2000/1 concerning the Rules to be Applied for
International Freight Transport by Road done at Prague on 30th and 31st May
2000 ;                 “ ECMT annual permit ” has the meaning given in
regulation 5;           “ ECMT country ” means a listed country in relation to
which the Protocol concerning the European Conference of Ministers of
Transport done at Brussels on 17th October 1953 is an agreement;           “
ECMT international removal permit ” has the meaning given in regulation 5;
“ ECMT short-term permit ” has the meaning given in regulation 5;           “
goods ” means goods or burden of any description;           “ grant fee ” has
the meaning given in regulation 7(2);           “ laden ” means laden with
goods;           “ listed country ” means a country  listed in Schedule 1;
“ multiple-use permit ” has the meaning given in regulation 5;           “
operator’s licence ” means a licence—         issued to an operator  under—
the Goods Vehicles (Licensing of Operators) Act 1995 , or           the Goods
Vehicles (Licensing of Operators) Act (Northern Ireland) 2010 , and
authorising the operator to use a goods vehicle  on a road for the carriage of
goods to a country outside the United Kingdom;                 “ permit ”
means an international road transport permit ;           “ relevant contract ”
means—         a contract of service or apprenticeship, whether express or
implied, and, if it is express, whether oral or in writing, or           any
other contract, whether express or implied and, if it is express, whether oral
or in writing, whereby an individual undertakes to do or perform personally
any work or services for another party to the contract whose status is not by
virtue of the contract that of a client or customer of any profession or
business undertaking carried on by the individual;                 “ single-
use permit ” has the meaning given in regulation 5;           “ traffic
commissioner ” means a commissioner appointed under section 4 of the Public
Passenger Vehicles Act 1981 ;           “ type of permit ” means a type of
permit described in regulation 5.

3.2

In these Regulations, a goods vehicle is used on a commercial journey if any
part of that journey is—

3.2.a

for hire or reward, or

3.2.b

for or in connection with any trade or business carried on by the operator of
the vehicle.

3.3

In these Regulations, the operator of a goods vehicle is using it for the
carriage of goods if the journey is—

3.3.a

a laden journey undertaken for the carriage of goods, or

3.3.b

an unladen journey undertaken in conjunction with such a journey.

### Permits

#### Permit requirement for commercial journey to, in or through listed country

4

4.1

The operator of a goods vehicle is prohibited from using it on a journey for
the carriage of goods to, in or through a listed country unless the use of
that vehicle in that country is authorised by, and takes place in accordance
with, a permit—

4.1.a

granted by the Secretary of State, and

4.1.b

carried on that vehicle.

4.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply—

4.2.a

where the journey is not a commercial journey,

4.2.b

to the use of the vehicle by the operator on the part of the journey which—

4.2.b.i

takes place in the listed country, and

4.2.b.ii

is of a description in Schedule 2,

4.2.c

where a temporary exemption has been granted under regulation 14 that applies
in relation to the journey by the operator using the vehicle, or

4.2.d

where a permit cannot be issued under these Regulations in relation to the use
of the vehicle by the operator because one of the circumstances specified in
paragraph (3) applies.

4.3

The specified circumstances are—

4.3.a

the operator of the vehicle is subject to a ban on the entry of vehicles
possessed or owned by the operator in a listed country to, in or through which
the journey would take place ;

4.3.b

the use of the vehicle on the journey is one that, under all agreements that
relate to the listed country to, in or through which the operator proposes to
use a goods vehicle on a journey, is not permitted.

4.4

For the avoidance of doubt, the fact that paragraph (1) does not apply to the
use of a vehicle by virtue of paragraph (2)(d) does not constitute
authorisation for the vehicle to be so used on a journey for the carriage of
goods to, in or through a listed country.

#### Types of permit

5

5.1

The types of permit that may be granted by the Secretary of State under these
Regulations are—

5.1.a

a permit which allows the use of a goods vehicle on multiple journeys to, in
or through ECMT countries in a period of up to one year in accordance with the
ECMT Multilateral Quota User Guide published in January 2022  (an “ECMT annual
permit”);

5.1.b

a permit granting permission to carry out international removals in the form
set out in Annex 2 of the ECMT Multilateral Quota User Guide published in
January 2022, for use on journeys to, in or through ECMT countries (an “ECMT
international removal permit”);

5.1.c

a short-term ECMT licence valid for 30 calendar days in accordance with the
ECMT Multilateral Quota User Guide published in January 2022, for use on
journeys to, in or through ECMT countries (an “ECMT short-term permit”);

5.1.d

a permit which allows the use of a goods vehicle on multiple journeys to, in
or through a specified listed country in a period of up to one year (a
“multiple-use permit”);

5.1.e

a permit (a “single-use permit”) which allows the use of a goods vehicle—

5.1.e.i

on a single journey to, in or through any one or more specified listed
countries;

5.1.e.ii

in the case of a specified listed country in relation to which an agreement
makes such provision, on two journeys comprising one journey to a specified
listed country followed by one journey from that specified listed country to
the United Kingdom, whether or not either of those journeys are in or through
any other specified listed country.

5.2

In this regulation “ specified listed country ” means a listed country in
relation to which there is an agreement, in addition to, or other than, the
ECMT agreements, which provides for the issuing of permits.

#### Number of permits

6

The number of permits available for the use of a goods vehicle on a journey
to, in or through a listed country is to be determined in accordance with the
agreement relating to that country.

#### Fees payable for permits

7

7.1

The fee payable in respect of an application for a type of permit specified in
the first column of the table in Part 1 of Schedule 3 is the amount specified
in the corresponding entry in the second column of that table (the
“application fee”).

7.2

The fee payable in respect of the grant of a type of permit specified in the
first column of the table in Part 2 of Schedule 3 is the amount specified in
the corresponding entry in the second column of that table (the “grant fee”).

#### Application for permit

8

8.1

To obtain a permit, an operator must—

8.1.a

make an application to the Secretary of State, and

8.1.b

pay the application fee, if any such fee is payable.

8.2

The application must include the following—

8.2.a

the name of—

8.2.a.i

the operator,

8.2.a.ii

any listed country to, in or through which the operator proposes to use a
goods vehicle on a journey to which the application relates, and

8.2.a.iii

the type of permit applied for;

8.2.b

the address of the operator;

8.2.c

an explanation as to whether any journey to which the application relates is
to, in or through each listed country named in accordance with paragraph
(2)(a)(ii);

8.2.d

any request relating to the date on which the permit should take effect;

8.2.e

a description of the goods the operator intends to carry on any journey to
which the application relates;

8.2.f

details of the goods vehicle the operator intends to use on any journey to
which the application relates, including particulars of the gaseous and
particulate pollutants emitted by the engine propelling the vehicle;

8.2.g

if the operator is required to hold an operator’s licence for any journey to
which the application relates , the number of that licence;

8.2.h

if the application is for a type of permit under which the operator may make
more than one journey, an estimate of the number and frequency of the
journeys.

#### Withdrawal of application for permit

9

9.1

An operator may, by notifying the Secretary of State, withdraw their
application at any time before the day on which the Secretary of State makes a
decision on the application.

9.2

The operator is not entitled to the return of the application fee.

#### Grant of permit

10

The Secretary of State may only decide whether to grant a permit to an
operator after considering the following—

10.a

the number of permits available;

10.b

the information contained in the application;

10.c

the attachment of conditions;

10.d

the obligations of the United Kingdom as a party to the agreement that relates
to the listed country to, in or through which the operator proposes to use a
goods vehicle on a journey.

#### Conditions

11

11.1

The Secretary of State may grant a permit subject to—

11.1.a

the condition that the permit holder must pay the grant fee;

11.1.b

the condition that, for the duration of the permit, the permit holder must
hold an operator’s licence that is not suspended or curtailed;

11.1.c

the condition that the permit holder must—

11.1.c.i

keep a record of each journey made under the permit, and

11.1.c.ii

provide the record to the Secretary of State;

11.1.d

any other condition determined by the Secretary of State.

11.2

A condition may be attached to a permit at any time before the permit has
effect.

#### Duration of permit

12

A permit has effect for the duration specified in the right-hand column of the
table in relation to that type of permit.

Type of permit Duration ECMT annual permit The period: beginning with: the day
the permit is granted, or the day requested in the application (if any), if
that day is within the period of 60 days beginning with the day the permit is
granted, and ending with 31st December of the year in which the period begins.
ECMT international removal permit The period of one year beginning with: the
day the permit is granted, or the day requested in the application (if any),
if that day is within the period of 60 days beginning with the day the permit
is granted. ECMT short-term permit The period of 30 days beginning with the
day the permit is granted, or the day requested in the application (if any),
if that day is within the period of 60 days beginning with the day the permit
is granted. multiple-use permit; single-use permit The period: beginning with:
the day the permit is granted, or the day requested in the application (if
any), if that day is within the period of 60 days beginning with the day the
permit is granted, and ending with: for a permit relating to Azerbaijan  ,
Belarus or Norway , 31st January of the year following the year in which the
period begins, or for a permit relating to any other listed country, 31st
December of the year in which the period begins.

#### Refusal of permit

13

13.1

If the Secretary of State decides not to grant a permit, the Secretary of
State must notify the operator who applied for it, within the period of 28
days beginning with the day after the day the decision is made, of the reasons
for the decision.

13.2

The operator is not entitled to the return of the application fee.

#### Temporary exemption to deal with emergency or other special need

14

14.1

The Secretary of State may grant a temporary exemption from the prohibition
imposed by regulation 4 for the purpose of enabling an emergency or some other
special need to be dealt with.

14.2

The temporary exemption may be created by—

14.2.a

giving a notice in writing to the operator to whom it relates, or

14.2.b

publishing a notice specifying the class of operators to whom it relates .

### Enforcement of permit requirement

#### Direction to comply with permit condition

15

15.1

This regulation applies if an operator—

15.1.a

holds a permit to which a condition has been attached under regulation 11, and

15.1.b

breaches such a condition.

15.2

The Secretary of State may—

15.2.a

notify the operator of the breach of the condition, and

15.2.b

direct the operator to remedy the breach within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the operator is so notified.

#### Cancellation of permit

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may cancel a permit if the operator who holds it—

16.1.a

requests its cancellation,

16.1.b

breaches a condition attached to it under regulation 11, or

16.1.c

is guilty of an offence (relating to forgery, false statements, etc.) in
respect of the permit, or an application for that permit, under any of the
following—

16.1.c.i

section 173(1) of the Road Traffic Act 1988 ;

16.1.c.ii

section 174(1)(e) of the Road Traffic Act 1988;

16.1.c.iii

Article 174(1)(a)(iii) of the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 ;

16.1.c.iv

Article 174(2) of the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981;

16.1.c.v

section 36(1) of the Goods Vehicles (Licensing of Operators) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2010 ;

16.1.c.vi

section 37(1)(e) of the Goods Vehicles (Licensing of Operators) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2010.

16.2

If the Secretary of State cancels a permit, the Secretary of State must notify
the operator of—

16.2.a

the reason for cancelling it, and

16.2.b

the date on which it ceases to have effect, which must not be before the end
of the period of 28 days beginning with the day after the day the operator is
so notified.

16.3

A permit may be cancelled for a breach of a condition attached to it
regardless of whether the Secretary of State notifies the operator of the
breach under regulation 15.

16.4

Unless the Secretary of State withdraws a cancellation notification, or there
is a decision under regulation 18(2)(b) that the cancellation should be
suspended pending an appeal, a permit ceases to have effect on the date
specified in the notification.

#### Appeal against cancellation

17

17.1

An operator who has a permit cancelled under regulation 16(1) may appeal
against the decision to cancel the permit on the ground that the Secretary of
State made an error of fact or law in making that decision.

17.2

An appeal under paragraph (1) may be made to—

17.2.a

a traffic commissioner if the operator has—

17.2.a.i

a licence issued to an operator under the Goods Vehicles (Licensing of
Operators) Act 1995, or

17.2.a.ii

no operator’s licence, but has in Great Britain their principal place of
business for which the permit was required, or

17.2.b

the Upper Tribunal  if the operator has—

17.2.b.i

a licence issued to an operator under the Goods Vehicles (Licensing of
Operators) Act (Northern Ireland) 2010, or

17.2.b.ii

no operator’s licence, but has in Northern Ireland their principal place of
business for which the permit was required.

17.3

The traffic commissioner or the Upper Tribunal, as the case may be, may in
relation to an appeal under paragraph (1)—

17.3.a

confirm the Secretary of State’s decision to cancel the permit, or

17.3.b

quash the decision.

#### Appeal to traffic commissioner

18

18.1

An appeal to a traffic commissioner against the cancellation of a permit must
be brought within the period of 28 days beginning with the day after day the
operator is notified of the cancellation.

18.2

The traffic commissioner deciding the appeal must—

18.2.a

consider any written representations made, and any evidence provided, by the
appellant,

18.2.b

if the appellant makes a written application for the cancellation to be
suspended pending the appeal, decide whether the cancellation should be so
suspended,

18.2.c

decide the appeal and inform the appellant of the outcome of the appeal—

18.2.c.i

within the period of 56 days beginning with the day after the day the appeal
is brought, or

18.2.c.ii

within any further period the traffic commissioner considers necessary for the
appeal to be dealt with fairly and justly, and

18.2.d

provide reasons for any decision made under this regulation.

18.3

The traffic commissioner may include in any decision made under this
regulation any directions the traffic commissioner considers appropriate to
give effect to it.

### Haulage between two points in the EU

#### Part 4 – Interpretation

19

In this Part—

      “ between member States ” means, in relation to a journey, the journey
from a location in a member State to a location in any other member State
regardless of whether the journey is through any other country;           “
copy ” means a copy in electronic or paper form;           “ country ”
includes territory;           “ EU Market Information System ” means the
Internal Market Information System mentioned in  Regulation (EU) No1024/2012
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on
administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System and
repealing Commission  Decision 2008/49/EC  as it has effect in EU law;
“ examiner ” means—         an examiner appointed under section 66A of the
Road Traffic Act 1988 , or           an examiner appointed under Article 74 of
the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ;                 “ goods
vehicle ” has the meaning given by section 1(5) of the 2018 Act ;           “
operator ” has the meaning given by section 1(5) of the 2018 Act;           “
posting declaration ” has the meaning given in regulation 22(2);           “
within a member State ” means, in relation to a journey, the journey from a
location in a member State to a location in the same member State regardless
of whether the journey is through any other country.

#### Requirements for commercial journey within or between EU member States

20

20.1

The operator of a goods vehicle is prohibited from using it on a commercial
journey for the carriage of goods between member States or within a member
State unless the operator complies with the limit on journeys set out in
regulation 21.

20.2

The operator of a goods vehicle is prohibited from using it on a commercial
journey for the carriage of goods between member States or within a member
State unless the conditions specified in regulation 22 are satisfied in
relation to the use of that vehicle in that manner.

20.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply where the use of the vehicle on a
commercial journey for the carriage of goods between member States is
authorised by, and takes place in accordance with, an ECMT annual permit or an
ECMT short-term permit.

20.4

Paragraph (2) does not apply unless—

20.4.a

the journey is conducted under a contract concluded between the operator of
the vehicle and another party for the carriage of goods, and

20.4.b

there is a relevant contract between the person driving the vehicle on that
journey and the operator of the vehicle for the duration of the journey.

#### Limit on number of journeys within the EU

21

21.1

The operator of a goods vehicle must not use it to make any laden journey
between or within member States (“member State journey”) unless—

21.1.a

the member State journey follows a laden journey from the United Kingdom to a
member State,

21.1.b

the member State journey is of a type listed in paragraph (2), and

21.1.c

the vehicle has not left the territory of the European Union, except as part
of a member State journey of a type listed in paragraph (2).

21.2

The listed member State journeys are—

21.2.a

if—

21.2.a.i

the operator is a Northern Ireland operator, and

21.2.a.ii

the laden journey from the United Kingdom to a member State is from Northern
Ireland to Ireland,

up to two laden journeys within Ireland that occur within the period of seven
days beginning with the day after the day on which the last unloading of goods
on the laden journey from Northern Ireland to Ireland occurs;

21.2.b

in the case of a use other than that mentioned in sub-paragraph (a), one laden
journey within the member State that occurs within the period of seven days
beginning with the day after the day on which the last unloading of goods on
the laden journey from the United Kingdom to that member State occurs;

21.2.c

if the vehicle has been used for one laden journey within the member State as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) or (b), one laden journey between member
States;

21.2.d

if the vehicle has not been used for one laden journey within the member State
as mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) or (b), up to two laden journeys between
member States.

21.3

In this regulation—

      “ Northern Ireland operator ” means an operator who has—         a
licence issued to the operator under the Goods Vehicles (Licensing of
Operators) Act (Northern Ireland) 2010, or           no such licence, but has
in Northern Ireland their principal place of business;                 “
within Ireland ” means, in relation to a journey, the journey from a location
in Ireland to another location in Ireland regardless of whether the journey is
through Northern Ireland.

#### Posting requirements for journeys within the EU

22

22.1

The conditions specified for the purposes of regulation 20(2) are that—

22.1.a

the operator submits a posting declaration at or before the time the journey
commences, and

22.1.b

during the journey the driver of the vehicle carries a copy of the posting
declaration.

22.2

In this regulation “ posting declaration ” means a declaration—

22.2.a

made using the EU Market Information System, and

22.2.b

declaring—

22.2.b.i

the identity of the operator making the declaration;

22.2.b.ii

the contact details of an individual located in the United Kingdom who is able
to correspond with a representative of a member State on behalf of the
operator;

22.2.b.iii

the name, residential address and driving licence number of the driver of the
vehicle on the journey for which the declaration is required;

22.2.b.iv

the expected duration of the journey;

22.2.b.v

the registration plate of the vehicle;

22.2.b.vi

the start date of, and the law applicable to, the driver’s relevant contract
with the operator.

#### Requirement to comply with posting enquiries

23

23.1

In this regulation—

      “ posting enquiry ” means a request for information relating to a
journey to or in a member State made by, or on behalf of, the member State
using the EU Market Information System;           “ relevant date ” means the
last day of the period of one year beginning with the day after the day the
journey to which the posting enquiry relates finishes;           “ relevant
enquiry ” means a posting enquiry that is made within the period beginning
with the day the journey commences and ending with the relevant date.

23.2

Where regulation 20(2) applies, the operator of a goods vehicle which is used
at any time on a commercial journey for the carriage of goods between member
States or within a member State must, in accordance with paragraph (3), comply
with any relevant enquiry.

23.3

The operator must comply with a relevant enquiry within the period of 56 days
beginning with the day after the day the enquiry is made.

#### Power to stop

24

24.1

Paragraph (2) applies if it appears to—

24.1.a

in Great Britain, a stopping officer, or

24.1.b

in Northern Ireland, an examiner appointed under Article 74 of the Road
Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1995,

that a goods vehicle is being used on a journey between member States or
within a member State.

24.2

In Great Britain, the stopping officer or, in Northern Ireland, the examiner
may direct the driver to stop the vehicle for the purpose of enabling an
examiner to exercise the power under regulation 25(2)(a).

24.3

In this regulation “ stopping officer ” means an officer appointed under
section 66B of the Road Traffic Act 1988 .

#### Production of posting declaration and inspection of vehicles

25

25.1

An examiner may exercise the powers under this regulation in relation to a
goods vehicle if it appears to the examiner that—

25.1.a

the vehicle has been used on a journey to which regulation 20(1) applies and
that the limit on journeys set out in regulation 21 has not been complied
with,

25.1.b

the vehicle has been used on a journey to which regulation 20(2) applies and
that the condition in regulation 22(1)(a) has not been satisfied, or

25.1.c

the vehicle is being used on a relevant journey.

25.2

The examiner may—

25.2.a

inspect the vehicle for the purpose of checking that the use of the vehicle on
the relevant journey does not, or did not, breach regulation 20(1) or (2);

25.2.b

require the driver of a vehicle being used on a journey to which regulation
20(2) applies to produce a copy of the posting declaration that is carried on
the vehicle and allow the examiner to inspect and copy it.

25.3

The examiner may detain the vehicle for the purpose of—

25.3.a

exercising powers under paragraph (2), or

25.3.b

taking other steps to check that the use of the vehicle on the relevant
journey does not, or did not, breach regulation 20(1) or (2).

25.4

Before exercising a power under this regulation an examiner must, if requested
to do so, produce evidence of the examiner’s authority.

25.5

In this regulation “ relevant journey ” means a journey to which regulation
20(1) applies.

#### Prohibition notices

26

26.1

An examiner may prohibit a goods vehicle in the United Kingdom from being
taken to a member State if it appears to the examiner that—

26.1.a

the vehicle is being used on a journey between member States or within a
member State,

26.1.b

the condition in regulation 22(1)(a) has not been satisfied, and

26.1.c

a breach of regulation 20(2) arises because the journey is to the member State
or passes through it.

26.2

A prohibition may apply—

26.2.a

for a particular purpose or absolutely;

26.2.b

for a particular period or indefinitely.

26.3

A prohibition is imposed by giving a notice to the driver of the vehicle.

26.4

The notice must specify—

26.4.a

the member State to which the prohibition relates;

26.4.b

the circumstances as a result of which the prohibition is imposed;

26.4.c

the purpose for which the prohibition applies or that it applies absolutely;

26.4.d

the period for which the prohibition applies or that it applies indefinitely.

26.5

An examiner may remove a prohibition under this regulation by giving a notice
to the driver or operator of the vehicle.

26.6

A notice under this regulation takes effect when it is given.

26.7

An examiner who gives a notice under this regulation to a driver of a vehicle
must, as soon as practicable after the notice is given, take steps to bring
the contents of the notice to the attention of the operator of the vehicle
unless the driver is the operator.

#### Offences: breach of regulations etc.

27

27.1

The operator of a goods vehicle commits an offence if, without reasonable
excuse—

27.1.a

the operator uses the vehicle, whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, in
breach of regulation 20(1) or (2), or

27.1.b

the operator does not comply with the requirement in regulation 23(2).

27.2

Any person who wilfully fails to comply with a direction given by an examiner
in the exercise of the power conferred under regulation 24(2) is guilty of an
offence.

27.3

The driver of a goods vehicle commits an offence if, without reasonable
excuse, the driver breaches a requirement under regulation 25(2)(b).

27.4

A person commits an offence if the person wilfully obstructs an examiner in
the exercise of powers under regulation 25.

27.5

A person commits an offence if the person, without reasonable excuse—

27.5.a

breaches a prohibition under regulation 26, or

27.5.b

causes or permits a breach of a prohibition under that regulation.

27.6

A person who commits an offence under paragraph (1) or (5) is liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.

27.7

A person who commits an offence under paragraph (2), (3) or (4) is liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

### Miscellaneous provisions

#### Periodic review of regulatory provision

28

28.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

28.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations,
and

28.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

28.2

The first report must be published before the end of the period of five years
beginning with the date on which these Regulations come into force.

28.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding five years.

28.4

A review carried out under this regulation must, so far as is reasonable, have
regard to how the international obligations of the United Kingdom implemented
in these Regulations are implemented in other countries which are subject to
the obligations.

28.5

A report published under this regulation must, in particular—

28.5.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision
referred to in paragraph (1)(a),

28.5.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved,

28.5.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and

28.5.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way that involves less onerous regulatory provision.

28.6

In this regulation, “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(see section 32 of that Act).

#### Revocation of the International Road Transport Permits (EU Exit) Regulations 2018

29

The International Road Transport Permits (EU Exit) Regulations 2018  are
revoked.

#### Amendment of the Drivers’ Hours and Tachographs (Amendment) (EU Exit) (No. 2) Regulations 2019

30

30.1

The Drivers’ Hours and Tachographs (Amendment) (EU Exit) (No. 2) Regulations
2019  are amended in accordance with paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) .

30.2

In regulation 1(4) (citation, commencement and extent) for “Parts 1 and 4
extend” substitute  “Part 1 extends” .

30.3

Omit Part 4 (amendment of the International Road Transport Permits (EU Exit)
Regulations 2018).

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport       Guy
Opperman   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport
21st May 2024

Listed countries (countries in relation to which there is an agreement)

Regulation 3

1

Armenia

2

Austria

3

Azerbaijan

4

Belarus

5

Belgium

6

Bulgaria

7

Croatia

8

Czech Republic

9

Denmark

10

Estonia

11

Finland

12

France

13

Georgia

14

Germany

15

Greece

16

Hungary

17

Ireland

18

Italy

19

Kazakhstan

20

Kyrgyzstan

21

Latvia

22

Lithuania

23

Luxembourg

24

Malta

25

Morocco

26

Netherlands

26A

Norway

27

Poland

28

Portugal

29

Romania

30

Russia

31

Slovakia

32

Slovenia

33

Spain

34

Sweden

35

Tajikistan

36

Tunisia

37

Turkey

38

Turkmenistan

39

Ukraine

40

Uzbekistan

  Descriptions of uses which do not require permits

Regulation 4(2)(b)

##### Preliminary provisions

###### Additional definitions for Schedule 2

1

In this Schedule—

      “ livestock vehicle ” has the meaning given in paragraph  2 ;
“ maximum laden weight ” has the meaning given in Part 4 of Schedule 6 to the
Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ medical supplies ” includes—
medical appliances, equipment and products;           medicines and
medicaments;                 “ medium-weight vehicle ” has the meaning given
in paragraph  3 ;           “ moving vehicle ” means a goods vehicle—
on a journey for the relocation of furniture or other moveable effects, and
being operated by an operator who uses specialised equipment and personnel for
carrying out relocations;                 “ non-commercial basis ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 4;           “ own account ” has the meaning given
in paragraph 5;           “ postal packet ” means a letter, parcel, packet or
other article transmissible by post;           “ recovery vehicle ” means a
goods vehicle on a journey to remove, repair, replace, return or support a
goods vehicle that has broken-down on a journey made in accordance with these
Regulations.

###### Meaning of “livestock vehicle”

2

2.1

A “livestock vehicle” is a goods vehicle—

2.1.a

being used for the transport of livestock, and

2.1.b

in respect of which a certificate of approval of means of transport by road
has been granted under Article 18 of EUR 2005/1.

2.2

In this paragraph—

      “ EUR 2005/1 ” means—         Council Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005  of 22
December 2004 on the protection of animals during transport and related
operations and amending Directives  64/432/EEC  and  93/119/EC  and Regulation
(EC) No 1255/97 , or           Council Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005  of 22
December 2004 on the protection of animals during transport and related
operations and amending Directives  64/432/EEC  and  93/119/EC  and Regulation
(EC) No 1255/97  as it has effect under section 7A of the European Union
(Withdrawal) Act 2018 ;                 “ livestock ” includes the following
domesticated animals—         bovids, which includes buffalo, cattle, goats,
sheep and yaks;           camelids, which includes alpacas and llamas;
cervids, which includes deer and elk;           equids, which includes asses,
hinnies, horses and mules;           fowl, which includes chickens, ducks,
geese, pheasants and turkeys;           pigs.

###### Meaning of “medium-weight vehicle”

3

3.1

A “medium-weight vehicle” is a goods vehicle with either or both—

3.1.a

a maximum laden weight not exceeding 6 tonnes;

3.1.b

a maximum payload weight not exceeding 3.5 tonnes.

3.2

In this paragraph—

      “ kerbside weight ” means the mass of a goods vehicle when it carries
nothing other than—         a full supply of fuel in its fuel tank,
an adequate supply of other liquids incidental to its propulsion, and
any loose tools and equipment with which it is normally equipped;
“ maximum payload weight ” means, in relation to a goods vehicle, the
difference in mass between the kerbside weight of the vehicle and the maximum
laden weight of the vehicle.

###### Meaning of “non-commercial basis”

4

The operator of a goods vehicle uses it for the carriage of goods on a “non-
commercial basis” if—

4.a

the purpose of the carriage is not to directly or indirectly generate any
profit, or

4.b

the goods will be—

4.b.i

exhausted in the destination country, or

4.b.ii

used temporarily before being returned to the country of origin without
alteration.

###### Meaning of “own account”

5

The operator of a goods vehicle uses it for the carriage of goods on “own
account” if—

5.a

the operator—

5.a.i

owns the goods, or

5.a.ii

has bought, extracted, hired, let out on hire, processed, produced, repaired
or sold the goods,

5.b

the vehicle is—

5.b.i

hired, leased or owned by the operator, and

5.b.ii

driven by the operator or a person under a relevant contract with the
operator,

5.c

the goods are carried—

5.c.i

from or to the operator’s premises, or

5.c.ii

between other places for the operator’s own requirements, and

5.d

the carriage of the goods is no more than ancillary to the overall activities
of the operator.

##### Descriptions of uses pursuant to bilateral agreements

###### Armenia

6

6.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Armenia if—

6.1.a

the vehicle is—

6.1.a.i

a recovery vehicle, or

6.1.a.ii

a vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the goods
listed in sub-paragraph (2), and

6.1.b

the journey is—

6.1.b.i

to Armenia and the origin of the journey is the United Kingdom, or vice versa,
or

6.1.b.ii

through Armenia.

6.2

The goods are—

6.2.a

a broken-down or damaged goods vehicle or passenger vehicle;

6.2.b

goods dispatched to a country—

6.2.b.i

to be exhausted through use for a film, radio or television production, an
exhibition, a fair, or a sports event, or

6.2.b.ii

to be used temporarily for a film, radio or television production, an
exhibition, a fair, or a sports event, before being removed from the country
in which they are to be used temporarily to any other country;

6.2.c

postal packets;

6.2.d

the remains of a deceased individual;

6.2.e

an abnormal indivisible load or dangerous goods if—

6.2.e.i

the use is authorised pursuant to Article 7 of the UK-USSR Agreement, and

6.2.e.ii

the driver is carrying that authorisation.

6.3

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to or in Armenia if—

6.3.a

the journey is to Armenia and the origin of the journey is a country other
than the United Kingdom, or vice versa,

6.3.b

the use is authorised pursuant to Article 9(2) of the UK-USSR Agreement, and

6.3.c

the driver is carrying that authorisation.

6.4

In this paragraph—

“ abnormal indivisible load ” has the meaning given in paragraph 2 of Schedule
1 to the Road Vehicles (Authorisation of Special Types) (General) Order 2003 ;
“ dangerous goods ” means goods the carriage of which is within scope of the
Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road
done at Geneva on 30th September 1957 ; “ passenger vehicle ” means a motor
vehicle  designed for the transport of eight or more persons, not including
the driver, with or without a trailer for carrying baggage; “ the UK-USSR
Agreement ” means the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics concerning International Road Transport with
Administrative Memorandum done at London on 22nd January 1988.

###### Azerbaijan

7

7.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Azerbaijan if the vehicle is any of the following—

7.1.a

a livestock vehicle;

7.1.b

a medium-weight vehicle;

7.1.c

a recovery vehicle;

7.1.d

a newly-acquired unladen vehicle being delivered to its final destination;

7.1.e

any other vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the
goods listed in sub-paragraph (2).

7.2

The goods are—

7.2.a

a broken-down or damaged goods vehicle;

7.2.b

goods carried on a non-commercial basis for—

7.2.b.i

a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance;

7.2.b.ii

an exhibition or sports event;

7.2.b.iii

a fair, fête or other event;

7.2.b.iv

a film, radio or television production;

7.2.c

goods carried from or to an airport in support of an air service that has been
diverted;

7.2.d

goods carried on own account;

7.2.e

goods transported during resettlement;

7.2.f

medical supplies, or goods for humanitarian aid, for use in the event of a
natural disaster or other emergency;

7.2.g

postal packets;

7.2.h

the remains of a deceased individual;

7.2.i

spare parts to repair an aircraft or ocean-going ship.

###### Belarus

8

8.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Belarus if the vehicle is any of the following—

8.1.a

a medium-weight vehicle;

8.1.b

a moving vehicle;

8.1.c

any other vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the
goods listed in sub-paragraph (2).

8.2

The goods are—

8.2.a

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

8.2.b

goods dispatched to a country—

8.2.b.i

to be exhausted through use for a film, radio or television production, a
cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance, an exhibition, a
funfair or a sports event, or

8.2.b.ii

to be used temporarily for a film, radio or television production, a
cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance, an exhibition, a
funfair or a sports event, before being removed from the country in which they
are to be used temporarily to any other country;

8.2.c

goods for humanitarian aid;

8.2.d

postal packets;

8.2.e

the remains of a deceased individual.

###### Georgia

9

9.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Georgia if the vehicle is on a journey for the carriage of only—

9.1.a

one or more of the goods listed in sub-paragraph (2);

9.1.b

goods carried on own account, but not if the origin or destination is a
country other than the United Kingdom or Georgia.

9.2

The goods are—

9.2.a

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

9.2.b

goods for—

9.2.b.i

a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance;

9.2.b.ii

an exhibition, fair or sports event;

9.2.b.iii

a film, radio or television production;

9.2.c

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster or other
emergency;

9.2.d

an object or artwork for exhibition;

9.2.e

postal packets;

9.2.f

samples of objects and materials the carriage of which is—

9.2.f.i

occasional, and

9.2.f.ii

exclusively for information or publicity purposes.

###### Kazakhstan

10

10.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Kazakhstan if the vehicle is—

10.1.a

a medium-weight vehicle,

10.1.b

an unladen vehicle on delivery from its place of manufacture in the United
Kingdom to a business in Kazakhstan, or

10.1.c

any other vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the
goods listed in sub-paragraph (2).

10.2

The goods are—

10.2.a

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

10.2.b

goods dispatched to a country—

10.2.b.i

to be exhausted through use for educational or publicity purposes, a film,
radio or television production, a cinematographic, circus, musical or
theatrical performance, an exhibition, a fair or a religious or sports event,
or

10.2.b.ii

to be used temporarily for educational or publicity purposes, a film, radio or
television production, a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical
performance, an exhibition, a fair or a religious or sports event before being
removed from the country in which they are to be used temporarily to any other
country;

10.2.c

goods for humanitarian aid;

10.2.d

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster or other
emergency;

10.2.e

postal packets;

10.2.f

the remains of a deceased individual.

###### Kyrgyzstan

11

Paragraph  6  (Armenia) applies in relation to the use of a goods vehicle on a
journey to, in or through Kyrgyzstan as if its references to Armenia were
references to Kyrgyzstan.

###### Morocco

12

12.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Morocco if—

12.1.a

the vehicle is—

12.1.a.i

a livestock vehicle, or

12.1.a.ii

any other vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the
goods listed in sub-paragraph (2), and

12.1.b

the journey is—

12.1.b.i

to Morocco and the origin of the journey is the United Kingdom, or vice versa,
or

12.1.b.ii

through Morocco.

12.2

The goods are—

12.2.a

an animal;

12.2.b

goods carried from or to an airport in support of an air service that has been
diverted;

12.2.c

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster or other
emergency.

12.3

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to or in Morocco if—

12.3.a

the journey is to Morocco and the origin of the journey is a country other
than the United Kingdom, or vice versa,

12.3.b

the use is authorised pursuant to Article 7 of the UK-Morocco Agreement, and

12.3.c

the driver is carrying that authorisation.

12.4

In this paragraph “ the UK-Morocco Agreement ” means the Agreement between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the International Carriage of Goods by
Road with Administrative Memorandum done at Marrakesh on 15th April 1994.

###### Norway

12A

12A.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Norway if—

12A.1.a

the vehicle is any of the following—

12A.1.a.i

a livestock vehicle;

12A.1.a.ii

a medium-weight vehicle;

12A.1.a.iii

a recovery vehicle;

12A.1.a.iv

a newly-acquired unladen vehicle being delivered to its final destination;

12A.1.a.v

a vehicle on a journey to transfer furniture and other moveable effects in
connection with a person's change in place of business or residence;

12A.1.a.vi

a vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the goods
listed in sub-paragraph (2), and

12A.1.b

the journey is—

12A.1.b.i

to Norway and the origin of the journey is the United Kingdom, or vice versa,
or

12A.1.b.ii

through Norway.

12A.2

The goods are—

12A.2.a

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

12A.2.b

goods carried on a non-commercial basis for—

12A.2.b.i

a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance;

12A.2.b.ii

an exhibition, but only if an artwork or art object for the exhibition;

12A.2.b.iii

a fair, fête or sports event;

12A.2.b.iv

a film, radio or television production;

12A.2.c

goods carried from or to an airport in support of an air service that has been
diverted;

12A.2.d

goods carried on own account;

12A.2.e

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster, emergency or
other humanitarian need;

12A.2.f

postal packets;

12A.2.g

provisions, and spare parts, for an aircraft or ocean-going ship;

12A.2.h

the remains of a deceased individual.

###### Russia

13

Paragraph  6  (Armenia) applies in relation to the use of a goods vehicle on a
journey to, in or through Russia as if its references to Armenia were
references to Russia.

###### Tajikistan

14

Paragraph  6  (Armenia) applies in relation to the use of a goods vehicle on a
journey to, in or through Tajikistan as if its references to Armenia were
references to Tajikistan.

###### Tunisia

15

15.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Tunisia if—

15.1.a

the vehicle is any of the following—

15.1.a.i

a medium-weight vehicle;

15.1.a.ii

a moving vehicle;

15.1.a.iii

a recovery vehicle;

15.1.a.iv

any other vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the
goods listed in sub-paragraph (2), and

15.1.b

the journey is—

15.1.b.i

to Tunisia and the origin of the journey is the United Kingdom, or vice versa,
or

15.1.b.ii

through Tunisia.

15.2

The goods are—

15.2.a

an antique or artwork;

15.2.b

bees for release into a hive or other environment;

15.2.c

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

15.2.d

fish for release into a lake, ocean, river or other body of water;

15.2.e

goods for—

15.2.e.i

a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance;

15.2.e.ii

an exhibition, fair or sports event;

15.2.e.iii

a film, radio or television production;

15.2.f

goods carried from or to an airport in support of an air service that has been
diverted;

15.2.g

luggage from or to an airport;

15.2.h

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster or other
emergency;

15.2.i

postal packets;

15.2.j

the remains of—

15.2.j.i

an animal for disposal other than by human consumption;

15.2.j.ii

a deceased individual;

15.2.k

spare parts for an ocean-going ship.

15.3

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to or in Tunisia if—

15.3.a

the journey is to Tunisia and the origin of the journey is a country other
than the United Kingdom, or vice versa,

15.3.b

the use is authorised pursuant to Article 1(2) of the UK-Tunisia Agreement,
and

15.3.c

the driver is carrying that authorisation.

15.4

In this paragraph “ the UK-Tunisia agreement ” means the Agreement between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Government of the Tunisian Republic on the International Carriage of Goods by
Road done at London on 10th March 1982.

###### Turkey

16

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey—

16.a

to or in Turkey if the origin or destination of the journey is the United
Kingdom, or

16.b

through Turkey.

###### Turkmenistan

17

Paragraph  6  (Armenia) applies in relation to the use of a goods vehicle on a
journey to, in or through Turkmenistan as if its references to Armenia were
references to Turkmenistan.

###### Ukraine

18

18.1

The use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a journey to, in or through
Ukraine if the vehicle is mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) .

18.2

The vehicles are—

18.2.a

a medium-weight vehicle;

18.2.b

a Euro V standards-compliant vehicle;

18.2.c

a Euro VI standards-compliant vehicle;

18.2.d

a zero-emission vehicle;

18.2.e

any other vehicle on a journey for the carriage of only—

18.2.e.i

one or more of the goods listed in sub-paragraph  (3) ;

18.2.e.ii

goods on own account, but not if the origin or destination is a country other
than the United Kingdom or Ukraine.

18.3

The goods are—

18.3.a

an artwork or art object for use in an exhibition or for a commercial purpose;

18.3.b

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

18.3.c

goods for—

18.3.c.i

a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance;

18.3.c.ii

an exhibition, fair or sports event;

18.3.c.iii

a film, radio or television production;

18.3.d

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster or other
emergency;

18.3.e

postal packets;

18.3.f

samples of objects and materials the carriage of which is—

18.3.f.i

occasional, and

18.3.f.ii

exclusively for information or publicity purposes.

18.4

In this paragraph—

“ Euro V standards-compliant vehicle ” means a vehicle where the engine
satisfies the emissions limit values set out in row B2 and row C of each of
the tables in Section 6.2.1 of Annex 1 to  Directive 2005/55/EC  of the
European Parliament and Council of 28 September 2005 , as that law had effect
on 30th December 2013; “ Euro VI standards-compliant vehicle ” means a vehicle
where the engine satisfies the emissions limit values set out in Annex 1 to
Regulation 595/2009 of the European Parliament and Council of 18 June 2009 ,
as that law had effect immediately before IP completion day; “ zero-emission
vehicle ” means a goods vehicle without an internal combustion engine, or with
an internal combustion engine that emits less than 1g CO 2 /kWh as determined
in accordance with Regulation  (EC) No 595/2009  of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 18 June 2009 and its implementing measures , as that law
had effect immediately before IP completion day, or that emits less than 1g CO
2 /km as determined in accordance with Regulation  (EC) No 715/2007  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2007  and its implementing
measures , as that law had effect immediately before IP completion day.

###### Uzbekistan

19

Paragraph  6  (Armenia) applies in relation to the use of a goods vehicle on a
journey to, in or through Uzbekistan as if its references to Armenia were
references to Uzbekistan.

##### Descriptions of uses pursuant to multilateral agreements

###### ECMT countries

20

20.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the use of a goods vehicle by its operator on a
journey to, in, or through an ECMT country if—

20.1.a

the origin of the journey is the United Kingdom or any ECMT country,

20.1.b

the destination of the journey is the United Kingdom or any ECMT country, and

20.1.c

the vehicle is any of the following—

20.1.c.i

a livestock vehicle;

20.1.c.ii

a recovery vehicle;

20.1.c.iii

a newly-acquired unladen vehicle being delivered to its final destination;

20.1.c.iv

a vehicle with a maximum laden weight not exceeding 3.5 tonnes;

20.1.c.v

a vehicle on a journey for the carriage only of one or more of the goods
listed in sub-paragraph (2).

20.2

The goods are—

20.2.a

a broken-down or damaged vehicle;

20.2.b

goods carried on a non-commercial basis for—

20.2.b.i

a cinematographic, circus, musical or theatrical performance;

20.2.b.ii

an exhibition, but only if an artwork or art object for the exhibition;

20.2.b.iii

a fair, fête or sports event;

20.2.b.iv

a film, radio or television production;

20.2.c

goods carried from or to an airport in support of an air service that has been
diverted;

20.2.d

goods carried on own account;

20.2.e

medical supplies for use in the event of a natural disaster, emergency or
other humanitarian need;

20.2.f

postal packets;

20.2.g

provisions, and spare parts, for an aircraft or ocean-going ship;

20.2.h

the remains of a deceased individual.

20.3

This paragraph does not exempt the use of a goods vehicle on a journey to, in
or through—

20.3.a

Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy,
Poland or Russia under sub-paragraph  (1) (c) (i) ;

20.3.b

Finland under sub-paragraph (1)(c)(iii);

20.3.c

Italy under sub-paragraph  (1) (c) (iv);

20.3.d

Germany or Russia under sub-paragraph  (1) (c) (v) where the goods are
described in sub-paragraph  (2) (c) ;

20.3.e

Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Hungary,
Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, Sweden or Turkey under sub-paragraph  (1)
(c) (v) where the goods are described in sub-paragraph  (2) (d) ;

20.3.f

Austria or Italy under sub-paragraph  (1) (c)(v) where the goods are described
in sub-paragraph  (2) (f);

20.3.g

Czech Republic, Germany or Russia under sub-paragraph  (1) (c) (v) where the
goods are described in sub-paragraph  (2) (g).

###### EU member States

21

21.1

The use of a goods vehicle on a journey to, in or through a member State other
than—

21.1.a

a journey from a member State to any other country, other than the United
Kingdom or another member State, which is a party to the ECMT agreements, or
vice versa;

21.1.b

a journey through a member State to and from any other country, other than the
United Kingdom or another member State, which is a party to the ECMT
agreements;

21.1.c

a journey between member States that would cause the operator to not comply
with the limit on journeys set out in regulation 21.

21.2

In this paragraph—

      “ between member States ” has the meaning given in regulation 19;
“ member State ” does not include Cyprus .

  Fees

Regulation 7

##### Application fees

      Type of permit Application fee   ECMT annual permit £10 ECMT short-term
permit £10 multiple-use permit £5 single-use permit £2

##### Grant fees

      Type of permit Grant fee   ECMT annual permit — with a duration of at
least nine months — £123 — with a duration of at least six months, but less
than nine months — £93 — with a duration of more than three months, but less
than six months — £62 — with a duration of three months or less — £31 ECMT
international removal permit £18 ECMT short-term permit £10 multiple-use
permit £45 single-use permit £6

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of these Regulations)

  These Regulations regulate the use of goods vehicles on journeys to, in or
through the countries and territories in relation to which the United Kingdom
has a relevant international agreement (within the meaning given by section
1(4) of the Haulage Permits and Trailer Registration Act  2018 (c. 19)  (“ the
2018 Act ”)) relating to the transport of goods by road, and the movement of
goods between two points in the EU.

  These Regulations revoke and replace the International Road Transport
Permits (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1204 ).

  Regulation 3 defines or otherwise explains expressions used in the
Regulations (some of which are also used below).

  Part 2 makes provision in relation to permits. In summary:
regulation 4 prohibits the operator of a goods vehicle from using it without a
permit on a journey for the carriage of goods to, in or through the countries
in relation to which the United Kingdom has a relevant international agreement
and makes provision for when the prohibition does not apply;
regulation 5 sets out the types of permits available to an operator to
authorise the use of a goods vehicle on a journey otherwise prohibited under
regulation 4;           regulation 6 provides that the number of permits
available for a country is to be determined in accordance with the agreement
relating to that country;           regulation 7 authorises the Secretary of
State to charge fees for permits;           regulations 8 and 9 set out the
procedure for permit applications;           regulation 10 sets out how the
Secretary of State decides whether to grant a permit;           regulation 11
authorises the Secretary of State to grant a permit subject to conditions;
regulation 12 provides for the duration of permits;           regulation 13
requires that where there is a decision not to grant a permit reasons must be
given to the applicant;           regulation 14 authorises the Secretary of
State to grant a temporary exemption from the prohibition imposed by
regulation 4 for the purpose of enabling an emergency or some other special
need to be dealt with.

  Part 3 includes enforcement provisions additional to those set out in
sections 6, 7 and 8 of the 2018 Act. In summary:         regulation 15
authorises the Secretary of State to direct an operator to remedy a breach of
a condition attached to a permit;           regulation 16 authorises the
Secretary of State to cancel an operator’s permit in certain circumstances;
regulations 17 and 18 provide for an operator to appeal the cancellation of a
permit.

  Part 4 prohibits the operator of a goods vehicle from using it on a
commercial journey for the carriage of goods between member States or within a
member State unless certain requirements are met and makes provision for
enforcement equivalent to those in sections 6, 7 and 8 of the 2018 Act. In
summary:         regulation 19 defines or otherwise explains expressions used
in Part 4;           regulation 20 prohibits the use of a goods vehicle in
certain circumstances unless the use is authorised by an ECMT permit or the
operator complies with the limit on journeys in regulation 21 and (in more
limited circumstances) the requirements in regulation 22;           regulation
21 sets out the limit on journeys for the purpose of regulation 20(1);
regulation 22 sets out that the requirements for the purposes of regulation
20(2) are that the operator must make a posting declaration at or before the
time the journey commences and the driver must carry a copy of the posting
declaration during the journey;           regulation 23 imposes a requirement
on the operator of certain vehicles in certain circumstances to comply with
posting enquiries made by a member State to, in or through which the vehicle
is used;           regulation 24 provides stopping officers and Northern
Ireland examiners with the power to stop a goods vehicle for the purposes of
checking whether the driver is carrying a copy of a posting declaration;
regulation 25 makes provision in certain circumstances for an examiner to
require a driver to produce a copy of a posting declaration and to inspect the
vehicle, and to detain the vehicle for these purposes;           regulation 26
enables an examiner to prohibit a goods vehicle in the United Kingdom from
being taken to a member State if it appears that the vehicle is being used on
a journey between two places in the EU and a posting declaration has not been
made;           regulation 27 provides for offences where relevant provisions
in the Regulations are not complied with and where a person obstructs an
examiner exercising powers conferred by this Part.

  Part 5 contains miscellaneous provisions:         regulation 28 requires the
Secretary of State to review the regulatory provision in these Regulations at
least once every five years;           regulation 30 makes incidental or
consequential amendments to the Drivers’ Hours and Tachographs (Amendment) (EU
Exit) (No. 2) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/596 ).

  Information on locating the text of the relevant international agreements to
which these Regulations relate may be found online at  www.gov.uk/guidance/uk-
treaties . Hard copies can be obtained on request from the International Road
Haulage Permit Office: email irhp@dvsa.gov.uk or telephone 020 8158 0250. The
agreements relevant to each listed country are set out in the table below.
(A)       Listed country         (B)       Relevant agreement(s)       Armenia
Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
concerning International Road Transport with Administrative Memorandum done at
London on 22nd January 1988  (“ the UK-USSR Agreement ”) The ECMT agreements
Austria Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, of the one part, and the European Union and the
European Atomic Energy Community, of the other part, done at Brussels and
London on 30th December 2020  (“ the Trade and Cooperation Agreement ”) The
ECMT agreements Azerbaijan Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan
on International Road Transport done at Baku on 23rd February 2023  The ECMT
agreements Belarus Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of
Belarus concerning International Motor Vehicle Carriage done at Minsk on 18th
March 2019  The ECMT agreements Belgium The Trade and Cooperation Agreement
The ECMT agreements Bulgaria The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT
agreements Croatia The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements
Czech Republic The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Denmark
The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Estonia The Trade and
Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Finland The Trade and Cooperation
Agreement The ECMT agreements France The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The
ECMT agreements Georgia Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Georgia on
International Road Transport done at London on 13th November 1997  The ECMT
agreements Germany The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements
Greece The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Hungary The
Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Ireland The Trade and
Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Italy The Trade and Cooperation
Agreement The ECMT agreements Kazakhstan Agreement between the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of
the Republic of Kazakhstan on International Road Transport done at London on
22nd November 2006  Kyrgyzstan The UK-USSR Agreement Latvia The Trade and
Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Lithuania The Trade and Cooperation
Agreement The ECMT agreements Luxembourg The Trade and Cooperation Agreement
The ECMT agreements Malta The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT
agreements Morocco Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Kingdom of
Morocco on the International Carriage of Goods by Road with Administrative
Memorandum done at Marrakesh on 15th April 1994 Netherlands The Trade and
Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Poland The Trade and Cooperation
Agreement The ECMT agreements Portugal The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The
ECMT agreements Romania The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT
agreements Russia The UK-USSR Agreement The ECMT agreements Slovakia The Trade
and Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Slovenia The Trade and
Cooperation Agreement The ECMT agreements Spain The Trade and Cooperation
Agreement The ECMT agreements Sweden The Trade and Cooperation Agreement The
ECMT agreements Tajikistan The UK-USSR Agreement Tunisia Agreement between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Government of the Tunisian Republic on the International Carriage of Goods by
Road done at London on 10th March 1982  Turkey Agreement between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Government of the Republic of Turkey concerning International Road Transport
done at Ankara on 9th September 1977  The ECMT agreements Turkmenistan The UK-
USSR Agreement Ukraine Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ukraine on
International Road Transport done at London on 13th December 1995  The ECMT
agreements Uzbekistan The UK-USSR Agreement

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

  An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside this instrument at
www.legislation.gov.uk .

