Title: The Securitisation Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-11-07
Description: These Regulations specify certain securitisation activities as “designated activities” for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (see Part 5A) (c. 8) and confer powers on the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) to make rules and give directions in relation to these activities. The activities are acting as an originator, sponsor, original lender or securitisation special purpose entity in a securitisation and selling a securitisation position to a retail client in the United Kingdom.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/102

## The Securitisation Regulations 2024

Financial Services And Markets

Made 29th January 2024

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 2

The Treasury make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 3RE, 71K, 71M, 71N(2) and (5), 71O(2), (10) and (11),
71P, 71Q, 138EA and 428(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  and
sections 4, 84(2) and 86(5) and (6) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2023 . In accordance with sections 71S(2) and 429(2) and (9) of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000  and section 4(9) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2023 , a draft of these Regulations has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

### Introductory

#### Citation and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Securitisation Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement

2

2.1

The following provisions come into force on the day after that on which these
Regulations are made—

2.1.a

this Part,

2.1.b

Part 2 (designated activities),

2.1.c

regulation  8  (matters to which FCA and PRA must have regard when making
rules relating to securitisation),

2.1.d

regulation  13  (designation of country or territory in relation to
securitisations), for the purpose only of enabling the Treasury to make
regulations, and

2.1.e

the remaining provisions, for the purposes only of enabling the FCA or the
PRA—

2.1.e.i

to make rules,

2.1.e.ii

to give directions or guidance, or

2.1.e.iii

to issue statements of policy.

2.2

So far as not already in force by virtue of paragraph (1), these Regulations
come into force on   1st November 2024   (“the main commencement day”).

#### Interpretation

3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ ABCP programme ” means a programme of securitisations the securities issued
by which predominantly take the form of asset-backed commercial paper with an
original maturity of one year or less; “ ABCP transaction ” means a
securitisation within an ABCP programme; “ authorised person ” has the meaning
given in section 31(2) of FSMA 2000; “ the Capital Requirements Regulation ”
means  Regulation (EU) No  575/2013  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and
investment firms and amending  Regulation (EU) No  648/2012 ; “ credit
institution ” means an undertaking the business of which is to take deposits
or other repayable funds from the public and to grant credits for its own
account; “ designated activity rules ” means rules made under section 71N of
FSMA 2000 ; “ EMIR ” means  Regulation (EU) No  648/2012  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central
counterparties and trade repositories ; “ established in the United Kingdom ”
means constituted under the law of a part of the United Kingdom— with a
registered office in any part of the United Kingdom, or if the person does not
have a registered office, with a head office in any part of the United
Kingdom; “ the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 ” means  Regulation (EU)
2017/2402  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017
laying down a general framework for securitisation and creating a specific
framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisations, and
amending Directives  2009/65/EC ,  2009/138/EC  and 2011/61/EU and Regulations
(EC) No 1060/2009  and (EU) No 648/2012 ; “ FSMA 2000 ” means the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000; “ institutional investor ” means an investor
which is one of the following— an insurance undertaking as defined in section
417(1) of FSMA 2000 ; a reinsurance undertaking as defined in section 417(1)
of FSMA 2000 ; the trustees or managers of an occupational pension scheme; a
fund manager of an occupational pension scheme appointed under section 34(2)
of the Pensions Act 1995  that, in respect of activity undertaken pursuant to
that appointment, is authorised for the purposes of section 31 of FSMA 2000;
an AIFM (as defined in regulation 4 of the Alternative Investment Fund
Managers Regulations 2013 )— with permission under Part 4A of FSMA 2000  in
respect of the activity specified by article 51ZC of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001  (managing an AIF), and
which markets or manages an AIF (as defined in regulation 3 of the 2013
Regulations) in the United Kingdom, and for the purposes of sub-paragraph
(ii), an AIFM markets an AIF when the AIFM makes a direct or indirect offering
or placement of units or shares of an AIF managed by it to or with an investor
domiciled or with a registered office in the United Kingdom, or when another
person makes such an offering or placement at the initiative of, or on behalf
of, the AIFM; a small registered UK AIFM; a management company as defined in
section 237(2) of FSMA 2000 ; a UCITS, as defined in section 236A of FSMA 2000
, which is an authorised open ended investment company as defined in section
237(3) of FSMA 2000; a CRR firm as defined in Article 4(1)(2A) of the Capital
Requirements Regulation ; an FCA investment firm as defined in Article
4(1)(2AB) of the Capital Requirements Regulation ; “ investor ” means a person
holding a securitisation position; “ main commencement day ” has the meaning
given in regulation  2 (2); “ occupational pension scheme ” means an
occupational pension scheme as defined in section 1(1) of the Pension Schemes
Act 1993  that has its main administration in the United Kingdom; “ original
lender ”, in relation to a securitisation, means an entity which, itself or
through related entities, directly or indirectly, concluded the original
agreement which created the obligations or potential obligations of the debtor
or potential debtor giving rise to the exposures being securitised; “
originator ”, in relation to a securitisation, means an entity which— itself
or through related entities, directly or indirectly, was involved in the
original agreement which created the obligations or potential obligations of
the debtor or potential debtor giving rise to the exposures being securitised,
or purchases a third party’s exposures on its own account and then securitises
them; “ overseas STS securitisation ” has the meaning given in regulation
12(2); “ PRA-authorised person ” has the meaning given in section 2B(5) of
FSMA 2000 ; “ securitisation ” means a transaction or scheme, whereby the
credit risk associated with an exposure or a pool of exposures is tranched,
having all of the following characteristics— payments in the transaction or
scheme are dependent upon the performance of the exposure or of the pool of
exposures, the subordination of tranches determines the distribution of losses
during the ongoing life of the transaction or scheme, and the transaction or
scheme does not create exposures which possess all of the following
characteristics— the exposure is to an entity which was created specifically
to finance or operate physical assets or is an economically comparable
exposure; the contractual arrangements give the lender a substantial degree of
control over the assets and the income that they generate; the primary source
of repayment of the obligation is the income generated by the assets being
financed, rather than the independent capacity of a broader commercial
enterprise; “ securitisation position ” means an exposure to a securitisation;
“ securitisation repository ” means a body corporate that centrally collects
and maintains the records of securitisations; “securitisation special purpose
entity” or “ SSPE ” means a corporation, trust or other entity, other than an
originator or sponsor, established for the purpose of carrying out one or more
securitisations, the activities of which are limited to those appropriate to
accomplishing that objective and the structure of which is intended to isolate
the obligations of the securitisation special purpose entity from those of the
originator; “ small registered UK AIFM ” has the meaning given in regulation
2(1) of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 ; “ sponsor
” means a credit institution or an investment firm as defined in paragraph 1A
of Article 2 of Regulation 600/2014/EU , whether located in the United Kingdom
or in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, which— is not an
originator, and either— establishes and manages an ABCP programme or other
securitisation that purchases exposures from third party entities, or
establishes an ABCP programme or other securitisation that purchases exposures
from third party entities and delegates the day-to-day active portfolio
management involved in that securitisation to an entity which is authorised to
manage assets belonging to another person in accordance with the law of the
country or territory in which the entity is established; “ STS criteria ” has
the meaning given in regulation  9 (1)(a); “ STS notification ” means a
notification under regulation  10 (1); “ STS securitisation ” has the meaning
given in regulation  9 ; “ territory ” includes the European Union and any
other international organisation or authority comprising countries or
territories; “ third party verifier ” has the meaning given in regulation  24
; “ tranche ” means a contractually established segment of the credit risk
associated with an exposure or a pool of exposures, where a position in the
segment entails a risk of credit loss greater than or less than a position of
the same amount in another segment, without taking account of credit
protection provided by third parties directly to the holders of positions in
the segment or in other segments; “ the Tribunal ” means the Upper Tribunal; “
trustees or managers ”, in relation to an occupational pension scheme, means—
in relation to a scheme established under a trust, the trustees, and in
relation to any other scheme, the persons responsible for the management of
the scheme; “ working day ” means any day other that a Saturday, a Sunday,
Christmas Day, Good Friday or a day which is a bank holiday under the Banking
and Financial Dealings Act 1971  in any part of the United Kingdom.

3.2

In these Regulations, references to rules made by the FCA or the PRA are to
those rules as they have effect from time to time.

### Designated activities

#### Activities specified as designated activities for purposes of FSMA 2000

4

4.1

The following activities are specified under section 71K of FSMA 2000  as
designated activities for the purposes of that Act, where those activities are
carried out by a person that is established in the United Kingdom—

4.1.a

acting as one of the following in a securitisation—

4.1.a.i

an originator,

4.1.a.ii

a sponsor,

4.1.a.iii

an original lender, or

4.1.a.iv

a securitisation special purpose entity;

4.1.b

selling a securitisation position to a retail client located in the United
Kingdom.

4.2

In this regulation “ retail client ” has the meaning given in rules made by
the FCA.

#### FCA rules

5

5.1

The FCA may make designated activity rules relating to the activities
specified in regulation  4 .

5.2

Rules made by virtue of paragraph (1) may not impose requirements on a PRA-
authorised person with respect to—

5.2.a

due diligence in relation to any securitisation, including monitoring, stress-
testing and risk management,

5.2.b

the retention of any interest or risk in any securitisation or the selection
of the assets for the securitisation,

5.2.c

the provision of information in relation to any securitisation,

5.2.d

the inclusion of securitisation positions in the underlying exposures that may
be used in a securitisation, or

5.2.e

arrangements concerning the granting of credit applying to exposures to be
securitised, or verification of the making of such arrangements where the
originator purchases exposures from a third party on its own account.

5.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply to the imposition of requirements with respect to
STS criteria or STS notifications.

5.4

The FCA must consult the PRA before making rules by virtue of paragraph (1)
imposing a requirement on a PRA-authorised person.

5.5

The FCA may by notice suspend any rules made by virtue of paragraph (1) for
such period as it considers appropriate (and see section 71N(6)  which imposes
a duty to consult the PRA beforehand).

5.6

Rules made by virtue of paragraph (1) may include provision—

5.6.a

enabling requirements imposed by the rules to be dispensed with, modified, or
reimposed (with or without modification) in such cases or circumstances as may
be determined by the FCA under the rules;

5.6.b

enabling publication of any decision made under sub-paragraph (a) in the way
appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of
persons likely to be affected by it.

#### Power of FCA to give directions

6

6.1

The FCA may give directions under section 71O of FSMA 2000  imposing on a
person or a description of persons such requirements as the FCA considers
appropriate in relation to the carrying on of an activity specified in
regulation 4.

6.2

In the following provisions of this regulation “ a direction ” means a
direction given under section 71O of FSMA 2000 by virtue of paragraph (1).

6.3

The FCA may give a direction only if it appears to the FCA—

6.3.a

in the case of a direction given to a person, that in carrying on the activity
the person is failing, or is likely to fail, to comply with a requirement
imposed—

6.3.a.i

by designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation  5 ,  ...

6.3.a.ia

by regulation 8A (restriction on establishment of an SSPE), or

6.3.a.ii

by Part 4 (simple, transparent and standardised securitisations), or

6.3.b

in the case of a direction given to a person or a description of persons, that
it is desirable to exercise the power—

6.3.b.i

in order to reduce risks, including reputational risks, arising from
participation in securitisations or investment in securitisations, or

6.3.b.ii

in order to advance any of the FCA’s operational objectives set out in section
1B(3) of FSMA 2000 .

6.4

Subject to paragraph (5), the power to give a direction includes (among other
things) power—

6.4.a

to prohibit a person from selling a securitisation position to retail clients;

6.4.b

to impose requirements with respect to—

6.4.b.i

due diligence in relation to any securitisation, including monitoring, stress-
testing and risk management,

6.4.b.ii

the retention of any interest or risk in any securitisation or the selection
of the assets for the securitisation,

6.4.b.iii

the provision of information in relation to any securitisation,

6.4.b.iv

the inclusion of securitisation positions in the underlying exposures that may
be used in a securitisation, or

6.4.b.v

arrangements concerning the granting of credit applying to exposures to be
securitised, or verification of the making of such arrangements where the
originator purchases exposures from a third party on its own account.

6.5

A direction may not impose requirements on a PRA-authorised person with
respect to any of the matters mentioned in paragraph (4)(b).

6.6

Paragraph (5) does not apply to the imposition of requirements with respect to
STS criteria or STS notifications.

6.7

Before giving, varying or revoking a direction where the exercise of the power
relates to a PRA-authorised person, the FCA must consult the PRA.

#### Directions: procedure

7

7.1

This regulation applies to an exercise by the FCA of the power to give a
direction under section 71O of FSMA 2000  by virtue of regulation  6  unless—

7.1.a

the direction is given to a description of persons, and

7.1.b

the FCA considers it appropriate to publish the direction under subsection (9)
of section 71O instead of proceeding under subsection (8) of that section.

7.2

If the FCA proposes to give a direction, or gives a direction with immediate
effect, the FCA must give written notice to the person concerned (“ P ”).

7.3

A direction takes effect—

7.3.a

immediately, if the notice under paragraph (2) states that this is the case,

7.3.b

on such other date as may be specified in the notice, or

7.3.c

if no date is specified in the notice, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

7.4

A direction may be expressed to take effect immediately, or on a specified
date, only if the FCA, having regard to the ground on which it is giving the
direction, reasonably considers that it is necessary for the direction to take
effect immediately, or on that date.

7.5

The notice under paragraph (2) must—

7.5.a

give details of the direction,

7.5.b

state the FCA’s reasons for the direction and for its determination as to when
the direction takes effect,

7.5.c

inform P that P may make representations to the FCA within such period as may
be specified in the notice (whether or not P has referred the matter to the
Tribunal), and

7.5.d

inform P of P’s right to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

7.6

The FCA may extend the period allowed under the notice for making
representations.

7.7

If, having considered any representations made by P, the FCA decides—

7.7.a

to give the direction proposed, or

7.7.b

if the direction has been given, not to revoke the direction,

it must give P written notice.

7.8

If, having considered any representations made by P, the FCA decides—

7.8.a

not to give the direction proposed,

7.8.b

to give a different direction, or

7.8.c

to revoke a direction which has effect,

it must give P written notice.

7.9

A notice under paragraph (7) must inform P of P’s right to refer the matter to
the Tribunal.

7.10

A notice under paragraph (8)(b) must comply with paragraph (5).

7.11

If a notice informs P of P’s right to refer a matter to the Tribunal, it must
give an indication of the procedure on such a reference.

7.12

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(c), whether a matter is open to review is to
be determined in accordance with section 391(8) of FSMA 2000.

7.13

A person who is aggrieved by the exercise of the FCA of its powers in relation
to a direction relating to the person may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

### Matters to consider when making rules

#### Matter to which FCA and PRA must have regard when making rules relating to securitisation

8

8.1

The coherence of the overall framework for the regulation of securitisation is
specified for the purposes of section 138EA of FSMA 2000  (matters to consider
when making rules).

8.2

The specification under paragraph (1) applies to the following—

8.2.a

the power of the FCA to make designated activity rules by virtue of regulation
5 ,

8.2.b

the power of the FCA to make rules under any provision of these Regulations,

8.2.c

the power of the FCA to make rules under section 137A of FSMA 2000  relating
to securitisation, and

8.2.d

the power of the PRA to make rules under section 137G of FSMA 2000  relating
to securitisation.

### Restriction on establishment of a securitisation special purpose entity

#### Restriction on establishment of a securitisation special purpose entity

8A

8A.1

The originator and sponsor in relation to a securitisation must ensure that
the securitisation is not carried out by means of a securitisation special
purpose entity that is established in a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom that is for the time being listed by the Financial Action Task
Force  as a high-risk jurisdiction subject to—

8A.1.a

a call on members to apply proportionate enhanced due diligence measures, or

8A.1.b

a call on members and other jurisdictions to apply countermeasures.

8A.2

An institutional investor must not invest in a securitisation carried out by
means of a securitisation special purpose entity that is established in a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom to which paragraph (1)
applies.

### Simple, transparent and standardised securitisations

#### STS securitisations

9

9.1

In these Regulations, “ STS securitisation ” means a securitisation which—

9.1.a

meets such criteria as to simplicity, transparency and standardisation as may
be specified for the purposes of this regulation in designated activity rules
made by virtue of regulation  5  (“the STS criteria”),

9.1.b

also meets the further condition in paragraph (2), and

9.1.c

is included on the list published by the FCA under regulation  10 .

9.2

The further condition is—

9.2.a

in the case of a securitisation which is not an ABCP programme or an ABCP
transaction, that the originator and sponsor involved in the securitisation
are established in the United Kingdom;

9.2.b

in the case of a securitisation which is an ABCP programme, that the sponsor
involved in the ABCP programme is established in the United Kingdom;

9.2.c

in the case of a securitisation which is an ABCP transaction, that the sponsor
involved in the ABCP programme of which that ABCP transaction forms part is
established in the United Kingdom.

9.3

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 (which relates to securitisations notified to the
FCA before the main commencement day), sub-paragraph (3) treats certain
securitisations as meeting the STS criteria if they comply with the provisions
mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

#### STS notification requirements

10

10.1

Where the sponsor or originator of a securitisation notifies the FCA in
accordance with designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation  5
that the securitisation falls within regulation  9 (1)(a) and (b), the FCA
must publish the notification on its official website.

10.2

The FCA must maintain on its official website a list of all the
securitisations notified to it (together with the securitisations to which
paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 3 applies) and must update the list on a regular
basis.

10.3

The FCA must remove a securitisation from the list if—

10.3.a

the FCA does not consider the securitisation to be an STS securitisation, or

10.3.b

the FCA has been notified by the originator or sponsor that the securitisation
is no longer an STS securitisation.

10.4

The PRA must notify the FCA whenever the PRA imposes a sanction on the ground
that the originator, sponsor or original lender in relation to an STS
securitisation has failed to comply with a requirement that is applicable to
that person in the person’s capacity as originator, sponsor or original lender
and is imposed by rules made by the PRA under section 137G of FSMA 2000
relating to—

10.4.a

risk retention requirements,

10.4.b

transparency requirements, or

10.4.c

credit-granting requirements.

10.5

Paragraph (6) applies where the FCA—

10.5.a

imposes a sanction on the ground that the originator, sponsor, original lender
or SSPE in relation to an STS securitisation has failed to comply with a
relevant requirement,

10.5.b

imposes a sanction on the ground that a third party verifier has failed to
comply with regulation  25 (3), or

10.5.c

receives a notification under paragraph (4).

10.6

The FCA must immediately indicate the fact within paragraph (5) in relation to
the securitisation concerned on the list maintained under paragraph (2).

10.7

Where the FCA gives a notice under regulation  11 (2) relating to the removal
of a securitisation from the list on a future date under paragraph (3)(a), the
FCA must immediately indicate that fact in relation to the securitisation
concerned on the list.

10.8

Where the FCA has exercised its power under paragraph (3)(a) to remove a
securitisation from the list maintained under paragraph (2) but the matter
remains open to review, the FCA must include on the list an indication that
the decision to remove the securitisation remains open to review.

10.9

In paragraph (5), “ relevant requirement ” means a requirement which is
applicable to a person in the person’s capacity as originator, sponsor,
original lender or SSPE and is imposed—

10.9.a

by designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation  5  relating to—

10.9.a.i

risk retention requirements,

10.9.a.ii

transparency requirements,

10.9.a.iii

credit-granting requirements,

10.9.a.iv

STS criteria, or

10.9.a.v

the notification of an STS securitisation or that a securitisation has ceased
to be an STS securitisation, or

10.9.b

by regulation  12 .

10.10

For the purposes of paragraph (8), whether a matter is open to review is to be
determined in accordance with section 391(8) of FSMA 2000.

#### Removal of STS securitisation from FCA list: procedure

11

11.1

The removal of a securitisation under regulation  10 (3)(a) from the list
maintained under regulation  10 (2) takes effect—

11.1.a

immediately, if the notice under paragraph (2) states that that is the case;

11.1.b

in any other case, on such date as may be specified in the notice.

11.2

If the FCA removes, or proposes to remove, a securitisation under regulation
10 (3)(a), it must give written notice to the originator or sponsor who gave
the FCA the STS notification.

11.3

The notice must—

11.3.a

give details of the FCA’s action or proposed action,

11.3.b

state the FCA’s reasons for considering that the securitisation does not
comply with regulation  9 (1)(a) or (b) and for choosing the date on which the
removal took effect or takes effect,

11.3.c

inform the person to whom the notice is given (“ P ”) that P may make
representations to the FCA within such period as may be specified in the
notice (whether or not P has referred the matter to the Tribunal),

11.3.d

inform P of the date on which the removal took effect or takes effect, and

11.3.e

inform P of P’s right to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

11.4

The FCA may extend the period allowed under the notice for making
representations.

11.5

If, having considered any representations made to it, the FCA decides to
maintain, vary or revoke its earlier decision it must give written notice to
the person to whom the notice under subsection (2) was given.

11.6

Where a notice has been given under paragraph (2) or (5) in relation to a
securitisation, the originator or sponsor may refer the matter to the
Tribunal.

#### Use of STS designation

12

12.1

The originator, sponsor or SSPE may use the designation “STS” or “simple,
transparent and standardised”, or a designation that refers directly or
indirectly to those terms, for their securitisation only where the
securitisation is—

12.1.a

an STS securitisation,

12.1.b

an overseas STS securitisation, or

12.1.c

a qualifying EU securitisation.

12.2

In paragraph (1)(b) “ overseas STS securitisation ” means a securitisation of
a description in relation to which a country or territory outside the United
Kingdom is designated by regulations under regulation  13 .

12.3

In paragraph (1)(c) “ qualifying EU securitisation ” means a securitisation—

12.3.a

which meets all the requirements of Section 1 or Section 2 of Chapter 4 of the
EU Securitisation Regulation 2017,

12.3.b

of which the European Securities and Markets Authority was notified pursuant
to Article 27(1) of that Regulation before the relevant time, and

12.3.c

which is included in the list referred to in Article 27(5) of that Regulation.

12.4

In paragraph (3), any reference to a provision of the EU Securitisation
Regulation 2017 is a reference to that provision as it had or has effect in
relation to the European Union at any time on or after the date of the
notification and before the relevant time.

12.5

In paragraph (3)(b) and (4) “ the relevant time ” means 11 p.m. on 31st
December 2024.

#### Overseas simple, transparent and standardised securitisations regime

13

13.1

The Treasury may by regulations designate a country or territory in relation
to securitisations of descriptions specified in the regulations.

13.2

The power in paragraph (1) is exercisable only if the Treasury are satisfied
that the law and practice which applies in the country or territory, in
relation to securitisations of the descriptions specified, has equivalent
effect (taken as a whole) to applicable UK law.

13.3

In determining whether the condition in paragraph (2) is satisfied, the
Treasury must have regard to the effect of any law and practice applying in
the country or territory to securitisations of the descriptions to be
specified with respect to the following in particular—

13.3.a

criteria as to simplicity, transparency and comparability;

13.3.b

the supervision and enforcement framework.

13.4

In paragraph (2) “ applicable UK law ” means any enactment of domestic law as
it applies to STS securitisations.

13.5

In making regulations under paragraph (1), the Treasury must also have regard,
in addition to any other matters they consider relevant, to whether the FCA,
and where relevant the PRA, have established effective cooperation
arrangements with the competent authorities of the country or territory.

13.6

When considering whether to make, vary or revoke regulations under paragraph
(1), the Treasury may, by making a request in writing to the FCA, require the
FCA to prepare a report on—

13.6.a

the law and practice of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, or
particular aspects of such law and practice;

13.6.b

the arrangements mentioned in paragraph (5),

in relation to securitisations of descriptions specified in the request.

13.7

If the Treasury request a report under paragraph (6), the FCA must—

13.7.a

consult the PRA when preparing the report, and

13.7.b

provide the Treasury with the report within such reasonable period as may be
specified in the request or such other period as may be agreed with the
Treasury.

13.7A

Regulations under paragraph (1) may—

13.7A.a

specify matters that a person carrying out a due-diligence assessment required
by regulations 32B and 32C must consider with regard to an overseas STS
securitisation;

13.7A.b

in relation to a matter specified, specify the extent to which the person may
rely on the matter.

13.8

Regulations under this regulation are to be made by statutory instrument.

13.9

Such regulations may—

13.9.a

contain incidental, supplemental, consequential and transitional provision,
and

13.9.b

make different provision for different purposes.

13.10

Regulations under this regulation are subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

### Securitisation repositories

#### Registration of a securitisation repository

14

14.1

A body corporate may apply to the FCA for registration under this regulation
as a securitisation repository by means of which originators, sponsors or
securitisation special purpose entities make information available in
accordance with FCA securitisation rules or PRA securitisation rules.

14.2

A trade repository may submit an application for an extension of registration
to the FCA with a view to its registration as a securitisation repository.

14.3

To be eligible to be registered under this regulation, a body corporate must—

14.3.a

be established in the United Kingdom,

14.3.b

apply procedures to verify the completeness and consistency of the information
made available to it under FCA or PRA securitisation rules, and

14.3.c

meet the requirements provided for in Articles 78, 79 and 80(1) to (3), (5)
and (6) of EMIR .

14.4

For the purposes of this Part, Articles 78, 79 and 80 of EMIR have effect in
relation to a securitisation repository as they have effect in relation to a
trade repository, but as if—

14.4.a

any reference to EMIR were a reference to this Part, and

14.4.b

the reference in Articles 78 and 80 to Article 9 of EMIR were a reference to
FCA securitisation rules.

14.5

In this regulation—

“ FCA securitisation rules ” means— designated activity rules made by virtue
of regulation  5 , and rules made by the FCA under section 137A of FSMA 2000
in relation to securitisation; “ PRA securitisation rules ” means rules made
by the PRA under section 137G of FSMA 2000 in relation to securitisation; “
trade repository ” means a person who centrally collects and maintains records
of derivatives and who is registered by the FCA as such under EMIR.

#### Application for registration

15

15.1

An application for registration, or for an extension of registration, under
regulation  14  must—

15.1.a

be made in such manner as the FCA may direct, and

15.1.b

contain, or be accompanied by, such information as the FCA may reasonably
require.

15.2

On receiving an application for registration or for an extension of
registration under regulation  14 , the FCA must assess whether the
application is complete within the period of 20 working days beginning with
the receipt of the application.

15.3

Where the application is not complete, the FCA must set a deadline by which
the applicant is to provide additional information.

15.4

After having assessed an application as complete, the FCA must notify the
applicant accordingly.

#### Examination of application

16

The FCA must, within the period of 40 working days beginning with the day on
which the notification referred to in regulation  15 (4) is made—

16.a

examine the application for registration, or for an extension of registration,
based on the compliance of the applicant with this Part,

16.b

make a decision accepting or refusing registration or an extension of
registration, and

16.c

give reasons for its decision.

#### Register of securitisation repositories

17

17.1

The FCA must maintain a register of securitisation repositories in accordance
with this Part.

17.2

The FCA must—

17.2.a

publish the register on its official website and make it available for public
inspection, and

17.2.b

update the register on a regular basis.

#### Changes to conditions for registration

18

A securitisation repository must, without undue delay, notify the FCA of any
material changes affecting its eligibility for registration.

#### Withdrawal of registration

19

19.1

The FCA may, on its own initiative, withdraw the registration of a
securitisation repository where the securitisation repository—

19.1.a

expressly renounces the registration or has provided no services for the
preceding 6 months,

19.1.b

obtained the registration by making false statements or by any other irregular
means, or

19.1.c

no longer meets the conditions for registration.

19.2

The FCA may also, on its own initiative, withdraw the registration of a
securitisation repository where it is desirable to do so to advance one or
more of its operational objectives set out in section 1B(3) of FSMA 2000.

19.3

The FCA may, on an application by a securitisation repository, withdraw the
registration of the securitisation repository.

#### Notification of decision

20

20.1

On making a decision referred to in regulation  16 (b) or  19 , the FCA must
notify its decision to the applicant or securitisation repository concerned.

20.2

A refusal of an application for registration or an extension of registration
under regulation  16 (b) comes into effect on the fifth working day after it
is made.

20.3

A withdrawal of registration under regulation  19(3)  takes effect—

20.3.a

immediately upon the making of the decision if the notice states that is the
case,

20.3.b

on such date as may be specified in that notice, or

20.3.c

if no date is specified in the notice, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

20.4

A decision to withdraw registration on the FCA’s own initiative under
regulation  19 (1) or (2) may be expressed to take effect immediately or on a
specified date only if the FCA, having regard to the ground on which it is
exercising its power reasonably considers that it is necessary for the
withdrawal to take effect immediately or on that date.

20.5

If the decision referred to in regulation  16 (b) or  19  is—

20.5.a

to refuse the application for registration or an extension of registration,

20.5.b

to exercise the FCA’s power under regulation  19 (1) or (2) to withdraw the
registration of the securitisation repository on the FCA’s own initiative, or

20.5.c

to refuse an application made by a securitisation repository under regulation
19 (3) to withdraw the registration of the securitisation repository,

the FCA must give the applicant or securitisation repository a written notice.

20.6

A written notice under paragraph (5) must—

20.6.a

give details of the decision made by the FCA,

20.6.b

state the FCA’s reasons for the decision,

20.6.c

state when the decision takes effect,

20.6.d

inform the applicant or securitisation repository that it may either—

20.6.d.i

request a review of the decision by the FCA, and make written representations
for the purpose of the review, within such period as may be specified in the
notice, or

20.6.d.ii

refer the matter to the Tribunal within such period as may be specified in the
notice, and

20.6.e

indicate the procedure on a reference to the Tribunal.

20.7

If the applicant or securitisation repository requests a review of the
decision made by the FCA (“ the original decision ”) the FCA must consider any
written representations made by the applicant or securitisation repository and
review the original decision.

20.8

On a review under paragraph (7), the FCA may make any decision (“the new
decision”) it could have made on the application.

20.9

The FCA must give the applicant or securitisation repository written notice of
its decision on the review.

20.10

This paragraph applies to a decision—

20.10.a

to maintain a decision to refuse an application for registration or for an
extension of registration, made under regulation  16 (b),

20.10.b

to refuse to revoke a decision made under regulation  19 (1) or (2) to
withdraw the registration of the securitisation repository on the FCA’s own
initiative, or

20.10.c

to maintain a decision to refuse an application from a securitisation
repository under regulation  19 (3) to withdraw the registration of the
securitisation repository.

20.11

A written notice in relation to a decision to which paragraph (10) applies
must—

20.11.a

give details of the new decision made by the FCA,

20.11.b

state the FCA’s reasons for the new decision,

20.11.c

state whether the decision takes effect immediately or on such date as may be
specified in the notice,

20.11.d

inform the applicant or securitisation repository that it may, within such
period as may be specified in the notice, refer the new decision to the
Tribunal, and

20.11.e

indicate the procedure on a reference to the Tribunal.

20.12

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(c), whether a matter is open to review is to
be determined in accordance with section 391(8) of FSMA 2000.

#### Tribunal

21

21.1

A securitisation repository may, subject to paragraph (2), refer to the
Tribunal the FCA’s decision to—

21.1.a

refuse to register the securitisation repository or to extend its registration
under regulation  16(b) ,

21.1.b

exercise its power under regulation  19 (1) or (2) to withdraw the
registration of a securitisation repository, or

21.1.c

refuse the securitisation repository’s application under regulation  19 (3) to
withdraw its registration.

21.2

Where there is a review under regulation  20 (7), paragraph (1) applies only
in relation to the FCA’s decision in response to that review.

#### Power of FCA to make rules in relation to securitisation repositories

22

22.1

The FCA may make such rules applying to securitisation repositories registered
with the FCA—

22.1.a

with respect to the carrying on by them of securitisation repository
activities, or

22.1.b

with respect to the carrying on by them of activities which are not
securitisation repository activities,

as appear to the FCA to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of advancing
one or more of its operational objectives set out in section 1B(3) of FSMA
2000.

22.2

In paragraph (1) “ securitisation repository activities ” means the activities
of centrally collecting and maintaining records of securitisations.

22.3

The rules may make provision applying to securitisation repositories even
though there is no relationship between the securitisation repositories to
whom the rules will apply and the persons whose interests will be protected by
the rules.

22.4

The rules may contain requirements which take into account, in the case of a
securitisation repository which is a member of a group, any activity of
another member of the group.

22.5

In paragraph (4) “ group ” has the same meaning as in FSMA 2000 (see section
421 of that Act).

#### Power of FCA to impose requirements

23

23.1

If the FCA considers that—

23.1.a

a securitisation repository has contravened, or is likely to contravene, a
requirement imposed by or under this Part, or

23.1.b

it is desirable to exercise the power in order to advance one or more of its
operational objectives set out in section 1B(3) of FSMA 2000,

it may impose, for such period as it considers appropriate, such requirements
as it considers necessary or expedient in relation to the carrying on of
securitisation repository activities, as defined in regulation  22 (2).

23.2

A requirement may, in particular, be imposed so as to require a securitisation
repository to take, or refrain from taking, specified action.

23.3

The FCA may—

23.3.a

withdraw a requirement, or

23.3.b

vary a requirement so as to reduce the period for which it has effect or
otherwise to limit its effect.

23.4

The imposition of the requirement takes effect—

23.4.a

immediately, if the notice given under sub-paragraph (6) states that that is
the case, or

23.4.b

on such date as may be specified in the notice.

23.5

The imposition of a requirement may be expressed to take effect immediately,
or on a specified date, only if the FCA, having regard to the ground on which
it is exercising its power, reasonably considers that it is necessary for the
imposition of the requirement to take effect immediately, or on that date.

23.6

If the FCA proposes to impose, or imposes a requirement, it must give the
securitisation repository written notice.

23.7

The notice must—

23.7.a

give details of the requirement,

23.7.b

state the FCA’s reasons for imposition of the requirement,

23.7.c

inform the securitisation repository that it may make representations to the
FCA within such period as may be specified in the notice, whether or not the
securitisation repository has referred the matter to the Tribunal,

23.7.d

inform the securitisation repository of when the imposition of the requirement
takes effect, and

23.7.e

inform the securitisation repository of its right to refer the matter to the
Tribunal.

23.8

The FCA may extend the period allowed under the notice for making
representations.

23.9

If, having considered any representations made by the securitisation
repository, the FCA decides—

23.9.a

to impose the requirement in the way proposed, or

23.9.b

if the requirement has been imposed, not to rescind the imposition of the
requirement,

it must give the securitisation repository written notice.

23.10

If, having considered any representations made by the securitisation
repository, the FCA decides—

23.10.a

not to impose the requirement in the way proposed,

23.10.b

to impose a different requirement, or

23.10.c

to rescind a requirement which has effect,

it must give the securitisation repository written notice.

23.11

A notice under paragraph (9) must inform the securitisation repository of its
right to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

23.12

A notice under paragraph (10)(b) must comply with paragraph (7).

23.13

If a notice informs the securitisation repository of its right to refer a
matter to the Tribunal, it must give an indication of the procedure on such a
reference.

23.14

A securitisation repository may refer to the Tribunal the FCA’s decision to
impose a requirement under this regulation.

### Registration of third party verifying STS compliance

#### Interpretation of Part 6

24

In this Part—

“ third party ”, in relation to a securitisation, means a person other than
the originator, sponsor or securitisation special purpose entity; “ third
party verification service ” means a service provided by a third party of
assessing the compliance of a securitisation with the STS criteria; “ third
party verifier ” means a person registered to provide a third party
verification service.

#### Third party verifying STS compliance

25

25.1

A person providing a third party verification service must be registered by
the FCA under this Part.

25.2

The FCA must grant an application for registration to provide a third party
verification service if all the following conditions are met—

25.2.a

the person only charges non-discriminatory and cost-based fees to the
originators, sponsors or securitisation special purpose entities involved in
the securitisations which the person assesses without charging different fees
depending on, or correlated to, the results of its assessment;

25.2.b

the person is neither a regulated entity as defined in regulation 1(2) of the
Financial Conglomerates and Other Financial Groups Regulations 2004  nor a
credit rating agency as defined in Article 3(1) of  Regulation (EU) No
1060/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009
on credit rating agencies , and the performance of the person’s other
activities does not compromise the independence or integrity of its
assessment;

25.2.c

the person does not provide any form of advisory, audit or equivalent service
to the originator, sponsor or securitisation special purpose entity involved
in the securitisations which the third party assesses;

25.2.d

the members of the management body of the person have professional
qualifications, knowledge and experience that are adequate for the task of the
person and they are of good repute and integrity;

25.2.e

the management body of the person includes at least one third, but no fewer
than two, independent directors;

25.2.f

the person takes all necessary steps to ensure that the verification of
compliance with the STS criteria is not affected by any existing or potential
conflicts of interest or business relationship involving the person, its
shareholders or members, managers, employees or any other individuals whose
services are placed at the disposal or under the control of the person, and to
that end—

25.2.f.i

the person must establish, maintain, enforce and document an effective
internal control system governing the implementation of policies and
procedures to identify and prevent potential conflicts of interest;

25.2.f.ii

potential or existing conflicts of interest which have been identified must be
eliminated or mitigated and disclosed without delay;

25.2.f.iii

the person must establish, maintain, enforce and document adequate procedures
and processes to ensure the independence of the assessment of compliance with
the STS criteria;

25.2.f.iv

the person must periodically monitor and review those policies and procedures
in order to evaluate their effectiveness and assess whether it is necessary to
update them;

25.2.g

the person can demonstrate that it has proper operational safeguards and
internal processes that enable it to assess compliance with the STS criteria.

25.3

A third party verifier must notify the FCA without delay of—

25.3.a

any material changes to the information provided in respect of paragraph (2),
and

25.3.b

any other changes that could reasonably be considered to affect the assessment
by the FCA of compliance by the third party verifier with the conditions in
that paragraph.

#### Application for registration to provide third party verification service

26

26.1

An application for registration to provide a third party verification service
must—

26.1.a

be made in such manner as the FCA may direct, and

26.1.b

contain, or be accompanied by, such information as the FCA may reasonably
require.

26.2

At any time after the application is received and before it is determined, the
FCA may require the applicant to provide it with such further information as
it reasonably considers necessary to enable it to determine the application.

26.3

The FCA may give different directions, and may impose different requirements,
in relation to different applications or categories of application.

26.4

The FCA may require an applicant to provide information which the applicant is
required to provide to it under this Part in such form, or to verify it in
such a way, as the FCA may direct.

#### Determination of application for registration to provide third party verification service

27

27.1

The FCA must determine an application for registration to provide a third
party verification service before the end of the period of six months
beginning with the date on which it received the completed application.

27.2

The FCA may determine an incomplete application if it considers it appropriate
to do so, and it must in any event determine such an application within 12
months beginning with the date on which it received the application.

27.3

The applicant may withdraw its application, by giving the FCA notice, at any
time before the FCA determines it.

27.4

If the FCA decides to grant an application it must give the applicant notice
of its decision specifying the date on which the registration takes effect.

#### Register of third party verifiers

28

28.1

The FCA must maintain a register of third party verifiers in accordance with
this Part.

28.2

The FCA must—

28.2.a

publish the register on its official website and make it available for public
inspection, and

28.2.b

update the register on a regular basis.

#### Temporary withdrawal of registration to provide third party verification service

29

29.1

The FCA may decide to withdraw temporarily the registration of a third party
verifier if it appears to the FCA that—

29.1.a

the third party verifier is materially non-compliant with regulation  25 (2),

29.1.b

the third party verifier has failed, during a period of at least 12 months, to
provide a third party verification service,

29.1.c

the third party verifier has obtained the registration to provide a third
party verification service through false statements or other irregular means;

29.1.d

the third party verifier has failed to comply with regulation  25 (3), or

29.1.e

it is desirable to do so to advance one or more of the FCA’s operational
objectives set out in section 1B(3) of FSMA 2000.

29.2

The FCA may—

29.2.a

revoke the temporary withdrawal imposed under paragraph (1), or

29.2.b

vary the period for which the temporary withdrawal has effect.

#### Temporary withdrawal of registration to provide third party verification service: procedure

30

30.1

When the FCA exercises its functions under regulation  29 , its decision takes
effect—

30.1.a

immediately, if the notice given under paragraph (3) states that that is the
case,

30.1.b

on such other date as may be specified in the notice, or

30.1.c

if no date is specified in the notice, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

30.2

A decision of the FCA made under regulation  29  may be expressed to take
effect immediately (or on a specified date) only if the FCA, having regard to
the ground on which it is exercising this power, reasonably considers that it
is necessary for the decision to take effect immediately (or on that date).

30.3

If the FCA proposes to exercise, or exercises, its functions under regulation
29 , it must give the third party verifier written notice.

30.4

The notice must—

30.4.a

give details of the temporary withdrawal, or the revocation of the temporary
withdrawal, or the variation of the temporary withdrawal, including the period
of the temporary withdrawal,

30.4.b

state the FCA’s reasons for the temporary withdrawal, or the revocation of the
temporary withdrawal or the variation of the temporary withdrawal,

30.4.c

inform the third party verifier that they may make representations to the FCA
within such period as may be specified in the notice (whether or not they
referred the matter to the Tribunal),

30.4.d

inform the third party verifier when the temporary withdrawal, or the
revocation of the temporary withdrawal or the variation of the temporary
withdrawal, is to take effect, and

30.4.e

inform the third party verifier of their right to refer the matter to the
Tribunal and provide an indication of the procedure for such a reference.

30.5

The FCA may extend the period allowed in the notice given under paragraph
(4)(c) for making representations.

30.6

If, having considered any representations made by the third party verifier to
whom the notice has been given under paragraph (3), the FCA decides—

30.6.a

to withdraw temporarily, or revoke or vary the temporary withdrawal of, the
third party verifier’s registration in the way proposed,

30.6.b

not to withdraw temporarily, or revoke or vary the temporary withdrawal of,
the third party verifier’s registration in the way proposed,

30.6.c

to revoke the temporary withdrawal or variation of the temporary withdrawal
which has taken effect,

30.6.d

if the temporary withdrawal or variation of the temporary withdrawal has taken
effect, not to revoke the temporary withdrawal or variation of the temporary
withdrawal, or

30.6.e

to withdraw temporarily or vary the period of a withdrawal in a different way,

it must give the third party verifier written notice of its decision.

30.7

A notice under paragraph (6)(a), (d) or (e) must inform the third party
verifier of their right to refer the matter to the Tribunal and provide an
indication of the procedure for such a reference.

30.8

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), whether a matter is open to review is to
be determined in accordance with section 391(8) of FSMA 2000.

30.9

Where the registration of a third party verifier is temporarily withdrawn, the
FCA must as soon as practicable update the register accordingly.

#### Withdrawal of registration to provide third party verification service on initiative of FCA

31

31.1

The FCA may withdraw a registration to provide a third party verification
service if it appears to the FCA that—

31.1.a

the third party verifier is materially non-compliant with regulation  25 (2),

31.1.b

the third party verifier has failed, during a period of at least 12 months, to
provide a third party verification service,

31.1.c

the third party verifier has obtained the registration to provide third party
verification services through false statements or other irregular means,

31.1.d

the third party verifier has failed to comply with regulation  25 (3), or

31.1.e

it is desirable to do so to advance one or more of the FCA’s operational
objectives set out in section 1B(3) of FSMA 2000.

31.2

Where the period for a reference to the Tribunal has expired without a
reference being made, the FCA must as soon as practicable update the register
accordingly.

#### Withdrawal of registration to provide third party verification service at request of third party verifier

32

32.1

The FCA may, on the application of a third party verifier, withdraw its
registration to provide a third party verification service.

32.2

A request for withdrawal of a person’s registration under this regulation must
be made in such manner as the FCA may direct.

32.3

The FCA may refuse an application under this regulation if it appears to it
that it is desirable to do so in order to advance any of its operational
objectives set out in section 1B(3) of FSMA 2000.

32.4

An application under paragraph (1) must be determined by the FCA before the
end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date on which it received the
completed application.

32.5

The FCA may determine an incomplete application if it considers it is
appropriate to do so, and it must in any event determine such an application
within 12 months beginning with the date on which it received the application.

32.6

The applicant may withdraw its application, by giving the FCA notice, at any
time before the FCA determines it.

32.7

If the FCA decides to grant an application, it must give the applicant notice
of its decision specifying the date on which the withdrawal of the
registration takes effect, and as soon as practicable update the register
referred to in regulation  28  accordingly.

### Due-diligence requirements

#### Interpretation of Part 7

32A

In this Part—

“ applicable FCA or PRA rules ”, in relation to an originator, sponsor,
original lender or securitisation special purpose entity, means such of the
following as are applicable to the originator, sponsor, original lender or
securitisation special purpose entity— designated activity rules made by
virtue of regulation 5; rules made by the PRA under section 137G of FSMA 2000
; “ fully-supported ABCP programme ” means an ABCP programme that is a fully-
supported ABCP programme as defined in designated activity rules made by
virtue of regulation 5; “ fully-supported ABCP transaction ” means an ABCP
transaction that is a fully-supported ABCP transaction as defined in
designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation 5; “ liquidity facility
” means the securitisation position arising from a contractual agreement to
provide funding to ensure timeliness of cash flows to investors.

#### Due-diligence requirements for occupational pension schemes: before holding a securitisation position

32B

32B.1

Before holding a securitisation position, the trustees or managers of an
occupational pension scheme who are not the originator, sponsor or original
lender must verify the following matters—

32B.1.a

where the originator or original lender is established in the United Kingdom
and is not a CRR firm or an FCA investment firm, that the originator or
original lender—

32B.1.a.i

grants all the credits giving rise to the underlying exposures, unless they
are trade receivables not originated in the form of a loan, on the basis of
sound and well-defined criteria and clearly established processes for
approving, amending, renewing and financing those credits in accordance with
any applicable FCA or PRA rules relating to credit-granting requirements, and

32B.1.a.ii

has effective systems in place to apply those criteria and processes in
accordance with any applicable FCA or PRA rules relating to credit-granting
requirements;

32B.1.b

where the originator or original lender is not established in the United
Kingdom, that the originator or original lender—

32B.1.b.i

grants all the credits giving rise to the underlying exposures, unless they
are trade receivables not originated in the form of a loan, on the basis of
sound and well-defined criteria and clearly established processes for
approving, amending, renewing and financing those credits, and

32B.1.b.ii

has effective systems in place to apply those criteria and processes to ensure
that credit-granting is based on a thorough assessment of the obligor’s
creditworthiness;

32B.1.c

where the originator, sponsor or original lender is established in the United
Kingdom, that—

32B.1.c.i

the originator, sponsor or original lender continually retains a material net
economic interest in accordance with any applicable FCA or PRA rules relating
to risk retention requirements, and

32B.1.c.ii

that risk retention is disclosed to the trustees or managers of the
occupational pension scheme in accordance with any applicable FCA or PRA rules
relating to transparency requirements;

32B.1.d

where the originator, sponsor or original lender is not established in the
United Kingdom—

32B.1.d.i

that the originator, sponsor or original lender continually retains a material
net economic interest which, in any event, must not be less than 5%,
determined in accordance with rules made by the FCA or PRA relating to risk
retention requirements which would be applicable FCA or PRA rules were the
originator, sponsor or original lender to be established in the United
Kingdom, and

32B.1.d.ii

that the originator, sponsor or original lender discloses the risk retention
to the trustees or managers of the occupational pension scheme;

32B.1.e

that the originator, sponsor or securitisation special purpose entity—

32B.1.e.i

has made available sufficient information to enable the trustees or managers
of the occupational pension scheme independently to assess the risks of
holding the securitisation position, and

32B.1.e.ii

has committed to make available further information on an ongoing basis as
appropriate.

32B.2

In paragraph (1)(a)—

“ CRR firm ” has the meaning given in Article 4(1)(2A) of the Capital
Requirements Regulation ; “ FCA investment firm ” has the meaning given in
Article 4(1)(2AB) of the Capital Requirements Regulation .

32B.3

In the case of a fully-supported ABCP transaction, the trustees or managers of
an occupational pension scheme are not required to verify the matters referred
to in paragraph (1)(a).

32B.4

The information referred to in paragraph (1)(e) must include at least the
information specified in the first column of Schedule A1, which must be
provided at least with the frequency, or on the occasions, specified in the
corresponding entry in the second column of that Schedule.

32B.5

Before holding a securitisation position, the trustees or managers of an
occupational pension scheme who are not the originator, sponsor or original
lender must carry out a due-diligence assessment which enables them to assess
the risks involved and consider at least all of the following—

32B.5.a

the risk characteristics of the individual securitisation position and of the
underlying exposures;

32B.5.b

any of the structural features of the securitisation that could materially
impact the performance of the securitisation position, including the
contractual priorities of payment and priority of payment-related triggers,
credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, market value triggers, and
transaction-specific definitions of default;

32B.5.c

with regard to a securitisation included on the list maintained under
regulation 10(2), compliance with the STS criteria and with any applicable
designated activity rules relating to the notification mentioned in regulation
10(1);

32B.5.d

with regard to a securitisation that appears to the trustees or managers to be
an overseas STS securitisation—

32B.5.d.i

whether the securitisation falls within a description of securitisation
specified in regulations under regulation 13(1) in relation to a country or
territory designated under those regulations, and

32B.5.d.ii

any matters specified for the purposes of regulation 13(7A)(a) in regulations
under regulation 13(1);

32B.5.e

with regard to a securitisation falling within paragraph (3)(b) and (c) of
regulation 12, compliance with the requirements referred to in paragraph
(3)(a) of that regulation and with Article 27 of the EU Securitisation
Regulation 2017 as it had effect in relation to the European Union at the time
of the notification mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) of that regulation.

32B.6

In addition to the matters specified in paragraph (5)(a) and (b), in the case
of a fully-supported ABCP programme, the trustees or managers of an
occupational pension scheme investing in the commercial paper issued by that
ABCP programme must consider the features of the ABCP programme and the full
liquidity support.

32B.7

The duty in paragraph (5)(c) applies whether or not a third party verifier has
assessed compliance of the securitisation with the STS criteria.

32B.8

In considering the matter referred to in paragraph (5)(c), the trustees or
managers of an occupational pension scheme may rely to an appropriate extent
on the STS notification and on the information disclosed by the originator,
sponsor and securitisation special purpose entity concerning compliance with
the STS criteria, without solely or mechanistically relying on that
notification or information.

32B.9

In relation to an overseas STS securitisation, the trustees or managers of an
occupational pension scheme may rely on a matter specified under regulation
13(7A)(b) to such extent as regulations under regulation 13(1) provide.

32B.10

In considering the matter referred to in paragraph (5)(e), the trustees or
managers of an occupational pension scheme may rely to an appropriate extent
on the notification referred to in regulation 12(3)(b) and on the information
disclosed by the originator, sponsor and securitisation special purpose entity
to the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning compliance with
the requirements referred to in regulation 12(3)(a), without solely or
mechanistically relying on that notification or information.

#### Due-diligence requirements for occupational pension schemes: ongoing requirements

32C

32C.1

Where the trustees or managers of an occupational pension scheme hold a
securitisation position in relation to which they are not the originator,
sponsor or original lender, the trustees or managers must at least establish
appropriate written procedures that are proportionate to the risk profile of
the securitisation position and, where relevant, to their trading and non-
trading book, in order to monitor on an ongoing basis—

32C.1.a

compliance with regulation 32B in relation to matters arising while the
securitisation position is held, and

32C.1.b

the performance of the securitisation position and of the underlying
exposures.

32C.2

The written procedures referred to in paragraph (1) must, where relevant to
the securitisation and the underlying exposures, include—

32C.2.a

monitoring of the exposure type,

32C.2.b

the percentage of loans more than 30, 60 and 90 days past due,

32C.2.c

default rates,

32C.2.d

prepayment rates,

32C.2.e

loans in foreclosure,

32C.2.f

recovery rates,

32C.2.g

repurchases,

32C.2.h

loan modifications,

32C.2.i

payment holidays,

32C.2.j

collateral type and occupancy, and

32C.2.k

frequency distribution of credit scores or other measures of credit worthiness
across underlying exposures, industry and geographical diversification,
frequency distribution of loan to value ratios with band widths that
facilitate adequate sensitivity analysis.

32C.3

Where the underlying exposures are themselves securitisation positions, in a
case where this is not prohibited in relation to the originator, sponsor or
original lender by applicable FCA or PRA rules, the trustees or managers must
also monitor the exposures underlying those positions.

32C.4

The trustees or managers of an occupational pension scheme who are not the
originator, sponsor or original lender holding a securitisation position must
at least—

32C.4.a

in the case of a securitisation other than a fully-supported ABCP programme,
regularly perform stress tests on the cash flows and collateral values
supporting the underlying exposures or, in the absence of sufficient data on
cash flows and collateral values, stress tests on loss assumptions, having
regard to the nature, scale and complexity of the risk of the securitisation
position;

32C.4.b

in the case of a fully-supported ABCP programme, regularly perform stress
tests on the solvency and liquidity of the sponsor;

32C.4.c

ensure internal reporting to the trustees or managers so that they are aware
of the material risks arising from the securitisation position and so that
those risks are adequately managed;

32C.4.d

be able to demonstrate to the Pensions Regulator, upon request, that they have
a comprehensive and thorough understanding of the securitisation position and
its underlying exposures and that they have implemented written policies and
procedures for the risk management of the securitisation position and for
maintaining records of the verifications and due diligence in accordance with
regulation 32B and of any other relevant information; and

32C.4.e

in the case of exposures to a fully-supported ABCP programme, be able to
demonstrate to the Pensions Regulator, upon request, that they have a
comprehensive and thorough understanding of the credit quality of the sponsor
and of the terms of the liquidity facility provided.

#### Due-diligence requirements for occupational pension schemes: delegation of investment management decisions

32D

32D.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

32D.1.a

the trustees or managers of an occupational pension scheme—

32D.1.a.i

have given a relevant institutional investor (“the managing party”) authority
to make investment management decisions that might expose the trustees or
managers to a securitisation, and

32D.1.a.ii

instruct the managing party to fulfil any of their obligations under
regulations 32B and 32C in respect of any exposure to a securitisation arising
from those decisions, and

32D.1.b

the managing party fails to fulfil an obligation to which those instructions
relate.

32D.2

The trustees or managers of the occupational pension scheme are not to be
regarded as responsible for the failure to comply with the obligation in
question.

32D.3

In this regulation “ relevant institutional investor ” means an institutional
investor which is an authorised person.

#### Rules relating to due-diligence requirements of institutional investors

33

33.1

The appropriate regulator must make general rules requiring a relevant
institutional investor to carry out due diligence—

33.1.a

before holding a securitisation position, and

33.1.b

while holding a securitisation position.

33.2

In this regulation—

“appropriate regulator”— in relation to a relevant institutional investor
which is a PRA-authorised person, means the PRA; in relation to other relevant
institutional investors, means the FCA; “general rules”— in relation to the
FCA, has the meaning given in section 137A(2) of FSMA 2000; in relation to the
PRA, has the meaning given in section 137G(2) of FSMA 2000; “ relevant
institutional investor ” means an institutional investor which is an
authorised person and which is not— the trustees or managers of an
occupational pension scheme, or the originator, sponsor or original lender in
that securitisation.

#### Due-diligence requirements of small registered UK AIFMs as institutional investors

34

34.1

The FCA must make rules requiring a small registered UK AIFM to carry out due
diligence—

34.1.a

before holding a securitisation position, and

34.1.b

while holding a securitisation position.

34.2

Rules under paragraph (1) may require a small registered UK AIFM—

34.2.a

before holding a securitisation position—

34.2.a.i

to verify specified matters relating to the securitisation position, and

34.2.a.ii

to carry out an assessment of the risks involved in holding the securitisation
position, having regard to specified matters;

34.2.b

while holding a securitisation position, to take specified measures to monitor
its performance and the risks involved in continuing to hold it.

34.3

References in paragraph (1) and (2) to a securitisation position do not
include references to a securitisation position in relation to which the small
registered UK AIFM is the originator, sponsor or original lender.

34.4

In paragraph (2) “ specified ” means specified in the rules.

34.5

For the purposes of the provisions of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers
Regulations 2013 listed in paragraph (6), rules made by the FCA under
paragraph (1) are to be taken to be implementing provisions as defined by
regulation 2 of those Regulations.

34.6

Those provisions are—

34.6.a

regulation 17 (grounds for revocation of registration);

34.6.b

regulation 19 (grounds for suspension of registration);

34.6.c

regulation 21 (disclosure obligations);

34.6.d

regulation 22 (power of direction).

34.7

In the provisions of FSMA 2000 listed in paragraph (8), any reference (however
expressed) to provision made by, or a requirement imposed by, the Alternative
Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 is to be taken to include a
reference to provision made by, or a requirement imposed by, rules under
paragraph (1).

34.8

Those provisions are—

34.8.a

subsection (2)(aa) of section 1L  (supervision, monitoring and enforcement);

34.8.b

subsection (4)(ja)(ii) of section 168  (appointment of persons to carry out
investigations in particular cases);

34.8.c

subsections (2)(c) and (6)(b) of section 204A  (meaning of “ relevant
requirement ” and “ appropriate regulator ”);

34.8.d

subsection (6)(a)(iii) of section 380  (injunctions);

34.8.e

subsection (9)(a)(iii) of section 382  (restitution orders);

34.8.f

subsection (1A)(b) of section 398  (misleading FCA or PRA: residual cases).

### Monitoring, disciplinary measures and procedures

#### Interpretation of Part 8

35

In this Part—

“ regulated person ” means a person who is not an authorised person and is— an
original lender, an originator, a person engaged in the activity specified in
regulation  4 (1)(b), a sponsor, an SSPE, a third party verifier, or a
securitisation repository; “ a regulator ” means the FCA or the PRA; “
relevant requirement ” means a requirement imposed— by designated activity
rules made by virtue of regulation  5 , by a direction under section 71O of
FSMA 2000 given by virtue of regulation  6 , by regulation 8A (restriction on
establishment of an SSPE), by or under Part 4 (simple, transparent and
standardised securitisations), Part 5 (securitisation repositories) or Part 6
(registration of third party verifying STS compliance), by regulation  38  in
a case where the temporary prohibition was imposed by the FCA, or by the FCA
under any other provision of these Regulations or under a provision of FSMA
2000 applied by these Regulations.

#### Monitoring and enforcement by FCA

36

36.1

The FCA must maintain arrangements designed to enable it to determine whether
regulated persons are complying with relevant requirements.

36.2

The FCA must also maintain arrangements for enforcing compliance by regulated
persons with relevant requirements.

#### Monitoring and enforcement by Pensions Regulator

36A

36A.1

The Pensions Regulator must maintain arrangements designed to enable it to
determine whether trustees or managers of occupational pension schemes are
complying with the requirements of regulations 8A(2), 32B and 32C.

36A.2

The Pensions Regulator must also maintain arrangements for enforcing
compliance by trustees or managers of occupational pension schemes with those
requirements.

#### Temporary prohibition relating to management functions

37

37.1

If the FCA considers that an individual has contravened, or has been knowingly
concerned in the contravention of, a relevant requirement, the FCA may impose
a temporary prohibition on that individual from holding an office or position
involving responsibility for taking decisions about the management of an
originator, sponsor or SSPE.

37.2

If the PRA considers that an individual has contravened, or has been knowingly
concerned in the contravention of—

37.2.a

PRA securitisation rules,

37.2.b

regulation  38 , in a case where the temporary prohibition was imposed by the
PRA, or

37.2.c

a requirement imposed under section 55M of FSMA 2000  (imposition of
requirements by PRA) which relates to securitisations,

the PRA may impose a temporary prohibition on that individual from holding an
office or position involving responsibility for taking decisions about the
management of an originator, sponsor or SSPE.

37.3

A temporary prohibition imposed under paragraph (1) or (2) expires at the end
of such period as the regulator imposing it may specify, but the imposition of
a temporary prohibition does not affect the regulator’s power to impose a
further temporary prohibition under that paragraph.

37.4

A temporary prohibition under paragraph (1) or (2) may relate to the
management of—

37.4.a

a named originator, sponsor or SSPE,

37.4.b

an originator, sponsor or SSPE of a specified description, or

37.4.c

any originator, sponsor or SSPE.

37.5

A regulator may revoke a temporary prohibition imposed by it under this
regulation, or vary it so as to reduce the period for which it has effect.

37.6

In this regulation, “ PRA securitisation rules ” means rules made by the PRA
under section 137G of FSMA 2000 which make provision of the kind mentioned in
regulation  5 (2) in relation to securitisations.

#### Temporary prohibition relating to management functions: obligations on originator, sponsor or SSPE

38

An originator, sponsor or SSPE must take reasonable care to ensure that no
individual holds an office or position involving responsibility for taking
decisions about the management of that entity in contravention of a temporary
prohibition imposed under regulation  37(1)  or (2).

#### Imposition of temporary ban on STS notifications

39

39.1

If the FCA considers that—

39.1.a

an originator, sponsor or SSPE has failed to meet the requirements of
designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation  5 , so far as those
rules relate to STS securitisations, or

39.1.b

an originator or sponsor has made a misleading STS notification,

the FCA may, for such period as it considers appropriate, temporarily ban the
originator or sponsor from making an STS notification.

39.2

The FCA may—

39.2.a

revoke a temporary ban imposed under paragraph (1), or

39.2.b

vary the period for which the temporary ban has effect.

39.3

The FCA must consult the PRA before imposing a temporary ban on an originator
or sponsor who is a PRA-authorised person, or varying such a ban so as to
extend the period for which it has effect.

#### Procedure for imposition, variation or revocation of a temporary ban on STS notifications

40

40.1

Where the FCA exercises its functions under regulation  39 , its decision
takes effect—

40.1.a

immediately, if the notice under paragraph (3) states that is the case,

40.1.b

on such other date as may be specified in the notice, or

40.1.c

if no date is specified in the notice, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

40.2

A decision of the FCA made under regulation  39  may be expressed to take
effect immediately (or on a specified date) only if the FCA, having regard to
the ground on which it is exercising this power, reasonably considers that it
is necessary for the decision to take effect immediately (or on that date).

40.3

If the FCA proposes to exercise, or exercises, its functions under regulation
39 , it must give the originator or sponsor a written notice.

40.4

The notice must—

40.4.a

give details of the temporary ban or variation,

40.4.b

state the FCA’s reasons for the temporary ban, or the revocation of the
temporary ban or the variation of the temporary ban,

40.4.c

inform the originator or sponsor that they may make representations to the FCA
within such period as may be specified in the notice (whether or not the
originator or sponsor has referred the matter to the Tribunal),

40.4.d

inform the originator or sponsor when the temporary ban, or the revocation or
variation of the temporary ban, takes effect, and

40.4.e

inform the originator or sponsor of their right to refer the matter to the
Tribunal and an indication of the procedure for such a reference.

40.5

The FCA may extend the period allowed under the notice for making
representations.

40.6

If, having considered any representations made by a person to whom the notice
was given, the FCA decides—

40.6.a

to impose the temporary ban, or revoke or vary the temporary ban, in the way
proposed,

40.6.b

not to impose the temporary ban, or revoke or vary the temporary ban, in the
way proposed,

40.6.c

to revoke the temporary ban, or the variation of the temporary ban, which has
taken effect,

40.6.d

if the temporary ban has been imposed or varied, not to revoke the temporary
ban or variation of the temporary ban, or

40.6.e

to impose or vary the temporary ban in a different way,

it must give the person written notice.

40.7

A notice given under paragraph (6)(a), (d) or (e) must inform the person to
whom it is given of the person’s right to refer the matter to the Tribunal and
provide an indication of the procedure for such a reference.

40.8

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), whether a matter is open to review is to
be determined in accordance with section 391(8) of FSMA 2000.

#### Public censure

41

41.1

If the FCA considers that—

41.1.a

a regulated person has contravened a relevant requirement,

41.1.b

a member of the management body of a regulated person, other than a
securitisation repository, was knowingly concerned in the contravention by the
regulated person of a relevant requirement,

41.1.c

another member of the senior management of a regulated person, other than a
securitisation repository, was knowingly concerned in the contravention by the
regulated person of a relevant requirement, or

41.1.d

a regulated person has failed to comply with regulation  38  as an originator,
sponsor or SSPE, in a case where the temporary prohibition was imposed by the
FCA,

the FCA may publish a statement to that effect.

41.2

If a regulator considers that an individual on whom a temporary prohibition
has been imposed under regulation  37  by that regulator has breached the
prohibition, the regulator may publish a statement to that effect.

41.3

If the PRA considers that a regulated person has failed to comply with
regulation  38  as an originator, sponsor or SSPE, in a case where the
temporary prohibition was imposed by the PRA, the PRA may publish a statement
to that effect.

#### Financial penalties

42

42.1

If the FCA considers that—

42.1.a

a regulated person has contravened a relevant requirement,

42.1.b

a member of the management body of a regulated person, other than a
securitisation repository, was knowingly concerned in the contravention by the
regulated person of a relevant requirement,

42.1.c

another member of the senior management of a regulated person, other than a
securitisation repository, was knowingly concerned in the contravention by the
regulated person of a relevant requirement, or

42.1.d

a regulated person has failed to comply with regulation  38  as an originator
sponsor or SSPE, in a case where the temporary prohibition was imposed by the
FCA,

the FCA may impose a penalty of such amount as it considers appropriate.

42.2

If a regulator decides that an individual on whom a temporary prohibition has
been imposed under regulation  37  by that regulator has breached the
prohibition, the regulator may impose a penalty of such amount as it considers
appropriate on that individual.

42.3

If the PRA considers that a regulated person has failed to comply with
regulation  38  as an originator, sponsor or SSPE, in a case where the
temporary prohibition was imposed by the PRA, the PRA may impose a penalty of
such amount as it considers appropriate.

42.4

A penalty imposed by a regulator under this regulation is payable to that
regulator and may be recovered as a debt owed to that regulator.

#### Warning notice

43

43.1

If the FCA proposes—

43.1.a

to refuse under regulation  27  an application under regulation  26  for
registration as a third party verification service,

43.1.b

to withdraw the registration of a third party verification service under
regulation  31 ,

43.1.c

to refuse an application to withdraw a person’s registration to provide a
third party verification service under regulation  32 ,

43.1.d

to impose a temporary prohibition under regulation  37 ,

43.1.e

to publish a statement in respect of a person under regulation  41 ,

43.1.f

to impose a penalty on a person under regulation  42 ,

it must give the person a warning notice.

43.2

If the PRA proposes—

43.2.a

to impose a temporary prohibition under regulation  37 ,

43.2.b

to publish a statement in respect of a person under regulation  41 ,

43.2.c

to impose a penalty on a person under regulation  42 ,

it must give the person a warning notice.

43.3

A warning notice about a proposal to impose a temporary prohibition in
relation to management functions under regulation  37  must set out the terms
of the proposed prohibition.

43.4

A warning notice about a proposal to publish a statement under regulation  41
must set out the terms of the statement.

43.5

A warning notice about a proposal to impose a penalty under regulation  42
must state the amount of the proposed penalty.

43.6

A warning notice must inform the person concerned that the person may make
representations to the regulator who gave the notice within such period as may
be specified in the notice (whether or not the person concerned has referred
the matter to the Tribunal).

#### Decision notice

44

44.1

If, having considered any representations made in response to the warning
notice, the FCA decides—

44.1.a

to refuse under regulation  27  an application under regulation  26  for
registration as a third party verification service,

44.1.b

to withdraw a person’s registration to provide a third party verification
service under regulation  31 ,

44.1.c

to refuse an application to withdraw a person’s registration to provide a
third party verification service under regulation  32 ,

44.1.d

to impose a temporary prohibition under regulation  37  (whether or not in the
terms proposed),

44.1.e

to publish a statement in respect of a person under regulation  41  (whether
or not in the terms proposed),

44.1.f

to impose a penalty on a person under regulation  42  (whether or not of the
amount proposed),

the FCA must give the person concerned a decision notice.

44.2

If, having considered any representations made in response to the warning
notice, the PRA decides—

44.2.a

to impose a temporary prohibition under regulation  37 ,

44.2.b

to publish a statement in respect of a person under regulation  41 ,

44.2.c

to impose a penalty on a person under regulation  42 ,

it must give the person a decision notice.

44.3

A decision notice about a decision to impose a temporary prohibition in
relation to management functions under regulation  37  must set out the terms
of the prohibition.

44.4

A decision notice about a decision to publish a statement under regulation  41
must set out the terms of the statement.

44.5

A decision notice about a decision to impose a penalty under regulation  42
must state the amount of the penalty.

44.6

After a statement under regulation  41  (public censure) is published, the
regulator that published it must send a copy of it to the person concerned and
to any person to whom a copy of the decision notice is given under section
393(4) of FSMA 2000  (third party rights), as applied by Schedule 1.

#### Consultation in relation to certain enforcement action

45

45.1

The FCA must consult the PRA before giving a warning notice under regulation
43 (1)(a), (b), (c), (e) or (f) or a decision notice under regulation  44
(1)(a) (b), (c), (e) or (f) in relation to a person who—

45.1.a

is a PRA-authorised person, or

45.1.b

has a qualifying relationship with a PRA-authorised person.

45.2

The FCA must consult the PRA before giving a warning notice under regulation
43 (1)(d) or a decision notice under regulation  44 (1)(d) if as a result of
the prohibition in question an individual would be prohibited from performing
a management function in relation to a PRA-authorised person.

45.3

The PRA must consult the FCA before giving a warning notice under regulation
43 (2).

45.4

A person has a qualifying relationship with a PRA-authorised person for the
purposes of this regulation if the person is a member of the PRA-authorised
person’s immediate group.

45.5

In this regulation “ immediate group ” has the meaning given in section 421ZA
of FSMA 2000 .

#### Statement of policy

46

46.1

Each regulator must prepare and issue a statement of policy with respect to—

46.1.a

the imposition of a prohibition under regulation  37 ,

46.1.b

the period of a prohibition under that regulation,

46.1.c

the imposition of penalties under regulation  42 , and

46.1.d

the amount of penalties under that regulation.

46.2

The policy must require the regulator, in determining the amount of the
penalty to be imposed on any person, to take account of all relevant
circumstances including, where appropriate—

46.2.a

the impact, gravity and duration of the contravention for which the penalty is
to be imposed;

46.2.b

the extent of the person’s responsibility for the contravention;

46.2.c

the financial position of the person;

46.2.d

the amount of profit gained or loss avoided as a result of the contravention,
so far as this can be determined;

46.2.e

the amount of loss sustained as a result of the contravention by any other
person, so far as this can be determined;

46.2.f

the level of co-operation by the person with the regulator (without prejudice
to the need to ensure that the person accounts for or makes good any profit
sustained or loss avoided as a result of the contravention);

46.2.g

any previous contravention by the person for which a penalty was or could have
been imposed under regulation  42 .

46.3

A regulator may at any time alter or replace a statement issued by it under
this regulation.

46.4

If a statement issued under this regulation is altered or replaced by a
regulator, the regulator must issue the altered or replacement statement.

46.5

A regulator must, without delay, give the Treasury a copy of any statement
which it issues under this regulation.

46.6

A statement issued under this regulation by a regulator must be published by
the regulator in the way appearing to the regulator to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of the public.

46.7

The regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person with a copy
of the statement.

46.8

In exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, its power under regulation  37
(temporary prohibition relating to management functions) or under regulation
42  (financial penalties) in the case of any particular contravention, a
regulator must have regard to any statement of policy published by it under
this regulation and in force at the time when the contravention in question
occurred.

#### Statement of policy: procedure

47

47.1

Before a regulator issues a statement under regulation  46 , the regulator
must publish a draft of the proposed statement in the way appearing to the
regulator to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the public.

47.2

The draft must be accompanied by a notice that representations about the
proposed statement may be made to the regulator within a specified time.

47.3

Before issuing the proposed statement, the regulator must have regard to any
representations made to it in accordance with paragraph (2).

47.4

If the regulator issues the proposed statement, it must publish an account, in
general terms, of—

47.4.a

the representations made to it in accordance with paragraph (2), and

47.4.b

its response to them.

47.5

If the statement differs from the draft published under paragraph (1) in a way
which is, in the opinion of the regulator, significant, the regulator must (in
addition to complying with paragraph (4)) publish details of the difference.

47.6

The regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person with a copy
of a draft published by it under paragraph (1).

#### Restriction on penalties

48

48.1

A person who is convicted of an offence under section 398 of FSMA 2000 as
applied by paragraph 13 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations is not subsequently
liable to a penalty under regulation  42  (financial penalties) in respect of
the same act or omission.

48.2

A person on whom a penalty has been imposed under regulation  42  (financial
penalties) is not subsequently liable for an offence under section 398 of FSMA
2000 as applied by paragraph 13 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations in respect
of the same act or omission.

#### Right to refer matters to Tribunal

49

49.1

A person to whom a decision notice is given under regulation  44  may refer
the matter to the Tribunal.

49.2

If the FCA decides temporarily to withdraw a registration to provide a third
party verification service under regulation  29 , or varies the details of the
temporary withdrawal so as to extend the period for which it has effect, the
person concerned may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

49.3

If the FCA imposes a temporary ban under regulation  39 , or varies such a ban
so as to extend the period for which it has effect, the person concerned may
refer the matter to the Tribunal.

### Application of provisions of FSMA 2000 etc and consequential amendments

#### Amendment or application with modifications of provisions of FSMA 2000 etc

50

In Schedule 1—

50.a

Part 1 contains amendments of FSMA 2000;

50.b

Part 2 applies with modifications provisions of FSMA 2000 and secondary
legislation made under it.

#### Amendments of other legislation

51

Schedule 2 contains amendments of other legislation, including consequential
amendments.

### Saving and transitional provisions

#### Pre-2019 securitisations

52

52.1

In relation to pre-2019 securitisations—

52.1.a

Part 2 (designated activities) applies only for the purposes of enabling the
FCA by rules or directions to impose, on persons other than PRA-authorised
persons, requirements with respect to the matters mentioned in regulation  5
(2), other than requirements with respect to STS criteria or STS
notifications, and

52.1.b

Part 4 (simple, transparent and standardised securitisations) does not apply.

52.2

The revocation of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 by section 1(1) of,
and Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 does not affect
the continued application in relation to pre-2019 securitisations of
paragraphs 2 to 4A of Article 43 of that Regulation (which relate to the use
of the designation “STS” or “simple, transparent and standardised”), as those
paragraphs had effect immediately before the main commencement day.

52.3

The provisions of Part 8 of these Regulations, of FSMA 2000, and of FSMA 2000
as applied by Schedule 1 to these Regulations, apply in relation to a
contravention on or after the main commencement day of Article 43(2) of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017, as remaining in force by virtue of paragraph
(2), as those provisions apply in relation to a contravention of regulation
12  (use of STS designation).

52.4

If the FCA or the PRA, in the exercise of any of its rule-making powers, makes
rules which require an investor to apply in relation to pre-2019
securitisations—

52.4.a

the due diligence requirements contained in the provisions specified in
Article 43(5) of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017, subject to the
modifications specified there, or

52.4.b

the requirements contained in the provisions specified in Article 43(6) of the
EU Securitisation Regulation 2017, subject to the modifications specified
there,

the revocation of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 by section 1(1) of,
and Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 does not affect
the continued exercise by the FCA or the PRA (as the case may be) for the
purposes of the rules in question of any functions that it had immediately
before the main commencement day under the provisions so specified as so
modified.

52.5

In this regulation “ pre-2019 securitisations ” means—

52.5.a

securitisations the securities of which were issued before 1 January 2019, or

52.5.b

securitisations in relation to which the following conditions are met—

52.5.b.i

the securitisations do not involve the issue of securities,

52.5.b.ii

the initial securitisation positions of the securitisations were created
before 1 January 2019, and

52.5.b.iii

no new securitisations positions of the securitisations have been created on
or after that day.

#### Occupational pension schemes: savings relating to pre-commencement securitisations

52A

52A.1

Regulations 32B to 32D (due diligence requirements for occupational pension
schemes) do not apply in relation to pre-commencement securitisations.

52A.2

The revocation of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 by section 1(1) of,
and Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 does not
affect—

52A.2.a

the continued application, in relation to the obligations of trustees or
managers of occupational pension schemes in connection with securitisation
positions of pre-commencement securitisations other than pre-2019
securitisations, of Article 5 of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 (due-
diligence requirements for institutional investors), as that Article had
effect immediately before the main commencement day;

52A.2.b

the continued application, in relation to the holding by occupational pension
schemes of securitisation positions of pre-2019 securitisations, of paragraph
5 of Article 43 of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 (transitional
provisions), as that paragraph had effect immediately before the main
commencement day.

52A.3

In its application by virtue of paragraph (2)(a), Article 5 of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017 is to be read as if—

52A.3.a

references to any provision of Articles 6 to 9 of the EU Securitisation
Regulation 2017 were references to that provision so far as applied in
relation to pre-commencement securitisations by relevant rules, and

52A.3.b

in paragraph 5, the reference to “another institutional investor” did not
include an AIFM unless the AIFM falls within paragraph (e) of the definition
of “institutional investor” in regulation 3 of these Regulations.

52A.4

In paragraph (3)(a) “ relevant rules ” means—

52A.4.a

in the case of a PRA-authorised person, rules made by the PRA under section
137G of FSMA 2000;

52A.4.b

in any other case, designated activity rules made by the FCA by virtue of
regulation 5.

52A.5

In regulation 36A (monitoring and enforcement by Pensions Regulator), the
reference to the requirements of regulations 32B and 32C includes a reference
to the requirements of Article 5 of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017, so
far as remaining in force by virtue of paragraph (2).

52A.6

In this regulation—

“ AIFM ” has the meaning given in regulation 4 of the Alternative Investment
Fund Managers Regulations 2013 ; “ pre-2019 securitisations ” has the same
meaning as in regulation 52; “ pre-commencement securitisations ” means—
securitisations the securities of which were issued before the main
commencement day, or securitisations in relation to which the following
conditions are met— the securitisations do not involve the issue of
securities, the intitial securitisation positions of the securitisations were
created before the main commencement day, and no new securitisation positions
of the securitisations have been created on or after that day.

#### Further transitional provisions

53

Schedule 3 contains further transitional provisions.

Amanda Milling Joy Morrissey Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s
Treasury 29th January 2024

Supplementary provision about due diligence requirements for the trustees or
managers of an occupational pension scheme

Regulation 32B(4)

Information Frequency with which, or occasion on which, information is to be
made available 1 In the case of a securitisation which is neither an ABCP
programme nor an ABCP transaction, details of the underlying exposures. At
least quarterly. 2 In the case of a securitisation which is an ABCP programme
or an ABCP transaction, information on the underlying receivables or credit
claims. At least monthly. 3 Reports for investors providing periodic updates
on— a the credit quality and performance of the underlying exposures; b any
relevant financial or other triggers contained in the transaction
documentation, including information on events which trigger changes to the
priority of payments or the substitution of any counterparty to the
transaction; c data on the cash flows generated by the underlying exposures
and by the liabilities of the securitisation; d the calculation and modality
of retention of a material net economic interest in the transaction by the
originator, sponsor or original lender. At least quarterly in the case of a
securitisation which is neither an ABCP programme nor an ABCP transaction. At
least monthly in the case of a securitisation which is an ABCP programme or an
ABCP transaction. 4 All information on the legal documentation needed to
understand the transaction, including detail of the legal provisions
governing— a the structure of the transaction, b any credit enhancement or
liquidity support features, c the cash flows and loss waterfalls, d investors’
voting rights, and e any triggers or other events that could result in a
material impact on the performance of the securitisation position. In the case
of primary market investments— a before pricing or a commitment to invest, in
draft or initial form, b no later than 15 days after closing of the
transaction, in final form, and c an updated version as soon as practicable
following any material change. In the case of secondary market investments— a
before a commitment to invest, in final form, and b an updated version as soon
as practicable following any material change. 5 Information describing any
changes or events materially affecting the transaction, including breaches of
obligations under the transaction documents As soon as practicable following
that material change or event. 6 Any approved prospectus or other offering or
marketing document prepared with the co-operation of the originator or
sponsor. In the case of primary market investments— a before pricing or a
commitment to invest, in draft or initial form, and b no later than 15 days
after closing of the transaction, in final form In the case of secondary
market investments, before a commitment to invest, in final form. 7 If there
is an STS notification, or a notification falling within regulation 12(3)(b),
in respect of the transaction, that notification. In the case of primary
market investments— a before pricing or a commitment to invest, in draft or
initial form, b no later than 15 days after closing of the transaction, in
final form, and c an updated version as soon as practicable following any
material change. In the case of secondary market investments— a before a
commitment to invest, in final form, and b an updated version as soon as
practicable following any material change.

Amendment, or application with modifications, of provisions of FSMA 2000 and
secondary legislation made under it

Regulation 50

##### Amendments of FSMA 2000

1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

2

In section 39  (exemption of appointed representatives), in subsection (4)—

2.a

omit the “or” immediately following paragraph (a), and

2.b

after that paragraph insert—

2.b.aa

a provision contained in or made under the Securitisation Regulations 2024, or

.

3

In section 66A  (misconduct: action by the FCA), in subsection (4)—

3.a

omit the “or” immediately following paragraph (ab), and

3.b

after that paragraph insert—

3.b.ac

imposed by or under the Securitisation Regulations 2024, or

.

4

In section 66B  (misconduct: action by the PRA), in subsection (4)—

4.a

omit the “or” immediately following paragraph (a), and

4.b

after that paragraph insert—

4.b.aa

imposed by or under the Securitisation Regulations 2024, or

.

5

In section 168  (appointment of persons to carry out investigations in
particular cases), in subsection (4), after paragraph (ic) insert—

5.id

a person may have contravened any provision made by or under the
Securitisation Regulations 2024;

.

6

6.1

Section 204A  (meaning of “relevant requirement” and “appropriate regulator”
for purposes of Part 14) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (2), after paragraph (aa) insert—

6.2.ab

by or under the Securitisation Regulations 2024,

.

6.3

In subsection (3), after paragraph (f) insert—

6.3.g

a requirement imposed by regulation  38  of the Securitisation Regulations
2024 on a PRA-authorised person in a case where the temporary prohibition
imposed under regulation  37 (1) or (2) of those Regulations was imposed by
the PRA.

.

6.4

In subsection (6), after paragraph (aa) insert—

6.4.ab

by or under the Securitisation Regulations 2024;

.

##### Application with modifications of provisions of FSMA 2000 and secondary legislation

###### Interpretation

7

In this Part of this Schedule “ regulated person ” has the meaning given in
regulation  35 .

###### Hearings and appeals

8

8.1

Part 9 of FSMA 2000 (hearings and appeals) applies in respect of references
made to the Tribunal under these Regulations as it applies in respect of
references made to the Tribunal under FSMA 2000 in respect of a decision of
the FCA or the PRA, but with the modifications set out in sub-paragraphs (2)
and (3).

8.2

Section 133 of FSMA 2000  (proceedings before Tribunal: general provision) is
to be read as if—

8.2.a

in subsection (1), the words “(whether made under this or any other Act)” were
omitted, and

8.2.b

for subsection (7A) there were substituted—

8.2.b.7A

A reference is a “ disciplinary reference ” for the purposes of this section
if it is in respect of a decision to—

8.2.b.7A.a

impose a temporary prohibition under regulation  37  of the Securitisation
Regulations 2024;

8.2.b.7A.b

publish a statement under regulation  41  of those Regulations;

8.2.b.7A.c

impose a penalty under regulation  42  of those Regulations.

.

8.3

Section 133A of FSMA 2000  (proceedings before Tribunal: decision and
supervisory notices, etc) is to be read as if in subsection (1) the words “as
a result of section 388(2)” were omitted.

###### FCA rules and guidance

9

9.1

The provisions of Part 9A of FSMA 2000  listed in sub-paragraph (2) apply in
relation to rules made by the FCA under regulation  22  or  34 (1) of these
Regulations as they apply in relation to rules made by the FCA under FSMA
2000, but subject to the modification in sub-paragraph (3).

9.2

Those provisions are—

9.2.a

section 137T (general supplementary powers);

9.2.b

section 138A (modification or waiver of rules);

9.2.c

section 138C (evidential provisions);

9.2.d

section 138E (limits on effect of contravening rules);

9.2.e

sections 138F, 138G and 138H (notification, making and verification of rules);

9.2.f

sections 138I and 138L (consultation);

9.2.g

section 141A (power to make consequential amendments of references to rules).

9.3

The modification is that section 137T  (general supplementary powers) is to be
read as if any reference to authorised persons were—

9.3.a

in the case of rules under regulation  22 , a reference to securitisation
repositories registered under Part 5;

9.3.b

in the case of rules under regulation  34 (1), a reference to small registered
UK AIFMs.

###### Information gathering and investigations

10

10.1

Part 11 of FSMA 2000 (information gathering and investigations) applies in
relation to the FCA’s and the PRA’s functions under these Regulations as it
applies in relation to the FCA’s and the PRA’s functions under FSMA 2000, but
with the modifications set out in sub-paragraphs (2) to (11).

10.2

Part 11 is to be read as if any reference to an authorised person included a
reference to a regulated person.

10.3

Section 167 (appointment of persons to carry out general investigations) is to
be read as if in subsection (5), for “regulated activities” there were
substituted  “the activities subject to regulation as a result of the
Securitisation Regulations 2024” .

10.4

Section 169  (investigations etc in support of overseas regulator) is to be
read as if—

10.4.a

subsection (2A) were omitted, and

10.4.b

for subsection (13) there were substituted—

10.4.b.13

“ Overseas regulator ” means an authority in a country or territory outside
the United Kingdom which has functions corresponding to those of the FCA or
the PRA under the Securitisation Regulations 2024.

.

10.5

Section 169A  (support of overseas regulator with respect to financial
stability) does not apply.

10.6

Section 170 (investigations: general) is to be read as if subsection (3)(b)
were omitted.

10.7

Section 171 (powers of persons appointed under section 167) is to be read as
if subsections (3A) and (7) were omitted.

10.8

Section 173 (powers of persons appointed as a result of section 168(2)) does
not apply.

10.9

Section 174  (admissibility of statements made to investigators) is to be read
as if—

10.9.a

in subsection (2), the words from “or in proceedings” to “this subsection
applies” were omitted,

10.9.b

subsection (3A) were omitted,

10.9.c

in subsection (4), the words from “or (5)” to the end were omitted, and

10.9.d

in subsection (5) “, 173” were omitted.

10.10

Section 176  (entry of premises under warrant) is to be read as if—

10.10.a

in subsection (1), “the Secretary of State” were omitted,

10.10.b

subsection (3)(b) were omitted,

10.10.c

in subsection (10), “or (5)” were omitted, and

10.10.d

in subsection (11)—

10.10.d.i

in paragraph (a), “87C, 87J,” and “,165A, 169A” were omitted, and

10.10.d.ii

in paragraph (b), “, 173” were omitted.

###### Injunctions and restitution

11

11.1

Part 25 of FSMA 2000 (injunctions and restitution) applies in respect of—

11.1.a

a relevant requirement as defined in regulation  35 , or

11.1.b

a requirement imposed by the PRA under regulation  37 , or

11.1.c

the requirement imposed by regulation  38  in a case where the temporary
prohibition was imposed by the PRA,

as it applies in respect of a relevant requirement as defined for the purposes
of a provision of that Part, but with the modifications set out in this
paragraph.

11.2

Part 25 is to be read as if—

11.2.a

each reference to the Act included a reference to these Regulations,

11.2.b

each reference to a section of the Act were a reference to that Act as applied
by these Regulations,

11.2.c

references to the Secretary of State were omitted, and

11.2.d

each reference to an authorised person included a reference to a regulated
person.

11.3

Section 380 (injunctions) is to be read as if—

11.3.a

references to the appropriate regulator were references to the PRA where the
requirement falls within sub-paragraph (1)(b) or (c) and references to the FCA
in any other case, and

11.3.b

subsections (7) to (12) were omitted.

11.4

Section 381 (injunctions in case of market abuse) does not apply.

11.5

Section 382 (restitution orders) is to be read as if—

11.5.a

references to the appropriate regulator were references to the PRA where the
requirement falls within sub-paragraph (1)(b) or (c) and references to the FCA
in any other case, and

11.5.b

subsections (10) to (15) were omitted.

11.6

Section 383 (restitution orders in cases of market abuse) does not apply.

11.7

Section 384 (power of FCA or PRA to require restitution) is to be read as if—

11.7.a

references to the appropriate regulator were references to the PRA where the
requirement falls within sub-paragraph (1)(b) or (c) and references to the FCA
in any other case,

11.7.b

subsections (2) and (3) and references to those subsections were omitted, and

11.7.c

subsections (7) to (13) were omitted.

###### Notices

12

12.1

Part 26 of FSMA 2000 (notices), other than sections 391A, 391B, 391C, 391D,
391E and 391F, applies with respect to the giving of notices by the FCA or the
PRA under regulations  7,   11 ,  30 ,  40 ,  43  and  44  of these
Regulations and under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations as it applies
with respect to the giving of notices by the FCA or the PRA under FSMA 2000,
but with the following modifications.

12.2

Section 387 (warning notices) is to be read as if subsections (1A) and (3A)
were omitted.

12.3

Section 388 (decision notices) is to be read as if subsections (1A) and (2)
were omitted.

12.4

Section 391  (publication) is to be read as if—

12.4.a

references to a supervisory notice were references to a notice under
regulation  7,   11 (2) or (5),  30 (3) or (6)(a), (d) or (e) or  40 (3) or
(6)(a), (d) or (e);

12.4.b

in subsection (1), the reference to a warning notice falling within subsection
(1ZB) were a reference to a warning notice given under regulation  43 ;

12.4.c

subsections (1ZA), (1ZB), (4A), (5A), (6A), (7A), (7B), (8A), (8B), (8C), (8D)
and (8E) were omitted.

12.5

Section 392 (application of sections 393 and 394) is to be read as if—

12.5.a

for paragraphs (a) and (b) there were substituted—

12.5.a.a

a warning notice given in accordance with regulation  43  of the
Securitisation Regulations 2024 or section 385 as applied by those
Regulations;

12.5.a.b

a decision notice given in accordance with regulation  44  of those
Regulations, or section 386 as applied by those Regulations.

.

12.6

Section 395 (the FCA’s and PRA’s procedures) is to be read as if references to
a supervisory notice were references to a notice under regulation  7,   11 (2)
or (5),  30 (3) or (6)(a), (d) or (e) or under regulation  40 (3) or (6)(a),
(d) or (e).

###### Offences

13

13.1

Section 398 of FSMA 2000 applies in relation to requirements imposed by or
under these Regulations as it applies in relation to requirements imposed by
or under FSMA 2000.

13.2

Section 400 of FSMA 2000 (offences by bodies corporate etc) applies in respect
of offences under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations as it applies in
respect of offences under FSMA 2000.

13.3

Section 401 of FSMA 2000 (proceedings for offences) applies in respect of
offences under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations as it applies in
respect of offences under FSMA 2000 but as if—

13.3.a

subsection (1)(c) were omitted;

13.3.b

references to the Secretary of State were omitted;

13.3.c

subsections (3A), (3AB) and (3B) were omitted.

13.4

Section 403 of FSMA 2000 (jurisdiction and procedure in respect of offences)
applies in respect of offences under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations
as it applies in respect of offences under FSMA 2000.

###### Limitation on power to require documents

14

Section 413 of FSMA 2000 (protected items) applies for the purposes of these
Regulations as it applies for the purposes of FSMA 2000.

###### Consultation in relation to taking of certain enforcement action

15

Section 415B of FSMA 2000  (consultation in relation to taking certain
enforcement action) applies in respect of—

15.a

notices given by the FCA or the PRA under regulation  43  or  44  of these
Regulations, and

15.b

applications to the court by the FCA or the PRA under a provision of FSMA 2000
as applied by these Regulations.

###### Penalties

16

16.1

Paragraphs 19 to 21 (penalties) of Schedule 1ZA to FSMA 2000  apply with
respect to penalties imposed by the FCA under these Regulations and under FSMA
2000 as applied by these Regulations as they apply with respect to penalties
imposed by the FCA under FSMA 2000, but with the following modifications.

16.2

For the purposes of paragraph 20, the FCA’s enforcement powers are to be taken
to include—

16.2.a

its powers under the provisions mentioned in section 133(7A) as applied by
this Schedule and under Part 25 of FSMA 2000 as applied by this Schedule;

16.2.b

its powers in relation to the investigation of offences under any provision of
FSMA 2000 as applied by this Schedule;

16.2.c

its powers in England and Wales or Northern Ireland in relation to the
prosecution of such offences.

16.3

For the purposes of paragraph 21, “regulated persons” include regulated
persons within the meaning of this Part of this Schedule.

17

17.1

Paragraphs 27 to 30 (penalties) of Schedule 1ZB to FSMA 2000  apply with
respect to penalties imposed by the PRA under these Regulations and under FSMA
2000 as applied by these Regulations as they apply with respect to penalties
imposed by the FCA under FSMA 2000, but with the following modifications.

17.2

For the purposes of paragraph 28, the PRA’s enforcement powers are to be taken
to include—

17.2.a

its powers under the provisions mentioned in section 133(7A) as applied by
this Schedule;

17.2.b

its powers in relation to the investigation of offences under any provision of
FSMA 2000 as applied by this Schedule;

17.2.c

its powers in England and Wales or Northern Ireland in relation to the
prosecution of such offences.

17.3

For the purposes of paragraph 29, “PRA-authorised persons” include regulated
persons within the meaning of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Service of Notices) Regulations 2001

18

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Service of Notices) Regulations
2001  (“ the Notice Regulations ”) apply in respect of a notice or document
given by the FCA or the PRA under these Regulations or under FSMA 2000 as
applied by these Regulations as they apply in respect of a notice or document
given by the FCA or the PRA under FSMA 2000, as if—

18.a

that notice or document were a “relevant document” under the Notice
Regulations;

18.b

each reference to “the Act” included a reference to these Regulations and to
FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations;

18.c

each reference to a section of FSMA 2000 were a reference to that section as
applied by these Regulations;

18.d

each reference to an investigating authority were a reference to the FCA or
the PRA.

Amendments to other legislation and consequential amendments

Regulation 51

##### Amendment to EMIR

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Amendment to the Capital Requirements Regulation

2

For Article 242(10)(b) (meaning of “simple, transparent and standardised
securitisation” or “STS securitisation”) of the Capital Requirements
Regulation  substitute—

2.b

an overseas STS securitisation as defined in regulation 12(2) of the
Securitisation Regulations 2024;

.

##### Amendment to the Solvency 2 Delegated Regulation

3

For Article 1(18b)(b) (meaning of “ STS securitisation ”) of Commission
Delegated  Regulation (EU) 2015/35  of 10 October 2014 supplementing
Directive 2009/138/EC  on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of
Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II)  substitute—

3.b

an overseas STS securitisation as defined in regulation 12(2) of the
Securitisation Regulations 2024;

.

##### Amendment to the Money Market Funds Regulation

4

For Article 11(1)(d) of  Regulation (EU) 2017/1131  of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on money market funds (eligible
securitisations and ABCPs)  substitute—

4.d

an overseas STS securitisation as defined in regulation 12(2) of the
Securitisation Regulations 2024.

.

Transitional provisions

Regulation 53

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

— In this Schedule “ the EU-derived securitisation legislation ” means—

1.1.a

the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 and any provision made under it,

1.1.b

any technical standards to which Chapter 2A of Part 9A of FSMA 2000  applies
which were originally made under the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017, and

1.1.c

the Securitisation Regulations 2018 .

1.2

Any reference in this Schedule to the revocation of the EU-derived
securitisation legislation is a reference to its revocation by section 1(1)
of, and Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023.

##### STS securitisations on list maintained by FCA under EU Securitisation Regulation 2017

2

2.1

On the main commencement day, the FCA must include on the list referred to in
regulation  10 (2) any securitisations that immediately before that day were
included on the list maintained by the FCA under Article 27(5) of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017 .

2.2

Sub-paragraph (1) is subject to regulation  10 (3) (which requires the FCA in
certain circumstances to remove a securitisation from the list).

2.3

A securitisation within sub-paragraph (1) is to be regarded for the purposes
of these Regulations as meeting the STS criteria at any time on or after the
main commencement day if, and only if, the securitisation complies with
Articles 19 to 22 or Articles 23 to 26 of the EU Securitisation Regulation
2017 , as they had effect immediately before the main commencement day.

2.4

References in these Regulations to compliance with the STS criteria are, in
relation to a securitisation within sub-paragraph (1), to be read in
accordance with sub-paragraph (3).

2.5

In relation to a securitisation that is included on the list referred to in
regulation 10(2) as a result of sub-paragraph (1)—

2.5.a

the reference in regulation 32B(5)(c) to any applicable designated activity
rules relating to the notification mentioned in regulation 10(1) is to be read
as a reference to Article 27 of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017, and

2.5.b

the references in regulation 32B(8) and paragraph 7 of Schedule A1 to the STS
notification is to be read as a reference to the notification to the FCA under
Article 27(1) of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017.

##### Temporary bans on STS notifications

3

3.1

Where immediately before the main commencement day a temporary ban has effect
under regulation 21 of the Securitisation Regulations 2018, the temporary ban
is to be treated for the remainder of the period for which it is to have
effect as having been imposed under regulation  39  of these Regulations, but
this is subject to the powers of the FCA under regulation  39 (2).

3.2

In regulation  39 (1)(a) a reference to failure to meet the requirements of
designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation  5 , so far as those
rules relate to STS securitisations, is to be read as including a reference
to—

3.2.a

a failure before the main commencement day to meet the requirements of Article
19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25 or 26 of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017, in a
case where no decision notice has been given before the main commencement day,
or

3.2.b

the making of a misleading notification pursuant to Article 27(1) of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017 , in a case where no decision notice has been
given before that day.

##### Securitisation repositories

4

4.1

This paragraph applies where, immediately before the main commencement day, a
securitisation repository is registered with the FCA for the purposes of
Article 5 of the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 under Article 10 of that
Regulation .

4.2

On and after the main commencement day, the securitisation repository is to be
taken to have been registered under regulation  14  of these Regulations, but
this is subject to the provisions of these Regulations relating to the
withdrawal of registration.

5

Where immediately before the main commencement day a securitisation repository
is subject to a requirement imposed under regulation 64A of the Over the
Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Depositories (Amendment,
etc, and Transitional Provision) Regulations 2019  as applied by Article 15 of
the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 , the requirement is to be taken on or
after that day to have been imposed under regulation  23  of these
Regulations.

##### Third party verification services

6

6.1

This paragraph applies where, immediately before the main commencement day, a
person is authorised by the FCA for the purposes of Article 28 of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017  to provide a third party verification service.

6.2

On and after the main commencement day, the person is to be taken to have been
registered under regulation  25  of these Regulations, but this is subject to
the provisions of these Regulations relating to the withdrawal of
registration.

##### References to Tribunal

7

7.1

This paragraph applies where immediately before the main commencement day—

7.1.a

a person has a right to make a reference to the Tribunal in respect of any
decision of the FCA to refuse—

7.1.a.i

registration as a securitisation repository under Article 10 of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017 , or

7.1.a.ii

authorisation for the purposes of Article 28 of the EU Securitisation
Regulation 2017  to provide a third party verification service, or

7.1.b

such a reference has been made but not determined.

7.2

These Regulations and the revocation of the EU-derived securitisation
legislation do not affect the reference to the Tribunal.

7.3

If the Tribunal refers the matter to the FCA for decision, paragraph 4 or 6
applies in relation to registration or authorisation in accordance with a
direction of the Tribunal as it applies in relation to registration or
authorisation having effect immediately before the main commencement day.

##### Temporary prohibitions relating to management functions

8

8.1

Where, immediately before the main commencement day, a temporary prohibition
has effect under regulation 5 of the Securitisation Regulations 2018, the
temporary prohibition is to be treated for the remainder of the period for
which it is to have effect has having been imposed under regulation  37  of
these Regulations by the regulator which imposed it, but this is subject to
the powers of the regulator under regulation  37 (4).

8.2

In regulation  37 (1), the reference to a contravention of a relevant
requirement is to be read as including a contravention before the main
commencement day of a relevant requirement as defined in regulation 2(1) of
the Securitisation Regulations 2018 as respects which the FCA was the
appropriate regulator.

8.3

In regulation  37 (2), the reference to a contravention of PRA securitisation
rules is to be read as including a contravention before the main commencement
day of a relevant requirement as defined in regulation 2(1) of the
Securitisation Regulations 2018 as respects which the PRA was the appropriate
regulator.

8.4

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply where, before the main commencement
day, a decision notice has been given relating to the imposition of a
temporary prohibition under regulation 5 of the Securitisation Regulations
2018 by reference to the contravention in question.

##### Disciplinary measures in respect of contraventions before main commencement day

9

9.1

The revocation of the EU-derived securitisation legislation does not affect
the exercise by the FCA or the PRA, in respect of things done or omitted
before the main commencement day, of their powers—

9.1.a

under regulation 7 of the Securitisation Regulations 2018 (public censure) or
regulation 8 of those Regulations (financial penalties),

9.1.b

under any provision of the Over the Counter Derivatives, Central
Counterparties and Trade Repositories (Amendment, etc, and Transitional
Provisions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019  as applied by the Securitisation
Regulations 2018, or

9.1.c

under any provision of FSMA 2000 as applied by the Securitisation Regulations
2018.

9.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not limit the application of section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1978 .

##### Directions given under regulation 25 of Securitisation Regulations 2018

10

10.1

Any direction given by the FCA or the PRA under regulation 25 of the
Securitisation Regulations 2018 (transparency requirements for originators,
sponsors and SSPEs of private securitisations) that is in force immediately
before the main commencement day is to remain in force on and after that day
until revoked under this paragraph.

10.2

On and after the main commencement day, the direction to which sub-paragraph
(1) applies to be read as if—

10.2.a

the reference to the information under Article 7(1)(a) to (g) of the EU
Securitisation Regulation 2017  were a reference to the information referred
to in any provisions of the appropriate rules that require the originator,
sponsor or SSPE to provide information in relation to a securitisation,

10.2.b

other expressions defined by reference to the EU Securitisation Regulation
2017 had the same meaning as in these Regulations, and

10.2.c

the reference to an entity designated under subparagraph 1 of Article 7(2) of
the EU Securitisation Regulation 2017  were a reference to an entity
designated under an equivalent provision of the appropriate rules.

10.3

The provisions of Part 8 of these Regulations, of FSMA 2000, and of FSMA 2000
as applied by Schedule 1 to these Regulations, apply in relation to a failure
on or after the main commencement day to comply with a direction to which sub-
paragraph (1) applies as those provisions apply in relation to a contravention
of the appropriate rules.

10.4

In this paragraph “ the appropriate rules ” means—

10.4.a

in the case of a PRA-authorised person, rules made by the PRA under section
137G of FSMA 2000 relating to securitisations;

10.4.b

in any other case, designated activity rules made by virtue of regulation  5 .

10.5

The FCA or the PRA may by a further direction amend a direction to which sub-
paragraph (1) applies that was given by it.

10.6

The FCA or the PRA may by notice revoke a direction to which sub-paragraph (1)
applies that was given by it.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations specify certain securitisation activities as “ designated
activities ” for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(see Part 5A) (c. 8) and confer powers on the Financial Conduct Authority (“
FCA ”) to make rules and give directions in relation to these activities. The
activities are acting as an originator, sponsor, original lender or
securitisation special purpose entity in a securitisation and selling a
securitisation position to a retail client in the United Kingdom.

The Regulations specify the coherence of the overall framework for the
regulation of securitisation as a matter to which the FCA and the Prudential
Regulation Authority (“ PRA ”) must have regard when making rules relating to
securitisation.

The Regulations also restate some provisions of  Regulation (EU) 2017/2402  of
12th December 2017 laying down a general framework for securitisation and
creating a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised
securitisation (“ the Securitisation Regulation ”), in some cases with
modifications. The restated provisions are revoked by section 1(1) of, and
Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act  2023 (c. 29)  alongside
the remainder of the Securitisation Regulation, related EU tertiary
legislation and the Securitisation Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1288 ). Most
other provisions revoked are restated (where appropriate with modifications)
in rules made by the FCA and the PRA.

Revoked provisions of the Securitisation Regulation restated in these
Regulations, in some cases with modifications, include— Articles 10 to 15
(registration of securities repositories); Article 18 (use of the designation
“simple, transparent and standardised securitisation” or “STS”); Article 27
(STS notification requirements) including the duty of the FCA to publish and
maintain a list of STS securitisations; Article 28 (registration of third
parties verifying STS compliance); Article 28A, which was inserted by the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (Treasury power to designate a country
or territory in relation to securitisations).

The Regulations require the FCA and PRA to make rules setting out due-
diligence requirements for certain institutional investors who are authorised
persons and who are not trustees or managers of an occupational pension
scheme. They also enable the FCA to make rules in relation to the holding of
securitisation positions by small registered UK AIFMs.

The Regulations also restate, with some modifications, the existing duty of
the FCA to monitor compliance and powers for the FCA and PRA to take
enforcement action, including imposing disciplinary measures.

The Regulations contain savings relating to certain pre-2019 securitisations
to which the Securitisation Regulation did not apply. The Regulations also
contain provisions dealing with the transition from the existing law to the
new provisions.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.
A de minimis impact assessment is available from HM Treasury, 1 Horse Guards
Road, London, SW1A 2HQ and is published with the Explanatory Memorandum
alongside this instrument at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

