Title: The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Partial Retirement etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-06-19
Description: These Regulations further amend the Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995(S.R.1995 No. 95) (“the 1995 Regulations”), the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (S.R. 2008 No.256) (“the 2008 Regulations”), the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (S.R. 2015 No. 120) (“the 2015 Regulations”), the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (S.R. 2015 No.122) (“the 2015 Transitional Regulations”) and the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) (“the 2023 McCloud Regulations”) S.R. 2023 No.132.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/50

## The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Partial Retirement etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Health And Personal Social Services   Public Sector Pensions

  Made   8th March 2024

  Coming into operation  - -   1st April 2024

      The Department of Health makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 12(1), (2) and (3) of, and (14)(1) and (2)
of, and Schedule 3 to the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972  (“ the
1972 Order ”) and sections 1 (1) and (2)(e), 2(1) and 3(1) to (3) of, and
paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 and Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland) 2014  (“ the 2014 Act ”).       In accordance with Article
12(4) of the 1972 Order and section 21(1) of the 2014 Act, the Department of
Health has consulted such persons as appear to the Department of Health likely
to be affected by these Regulations.           In accordance with Article
12(1) of the 1972 Order and section 3(5) of the 2014 Act, these Regulations
are made with the consent of the Department of Finance.

### Introductory

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes
(Partial Retirement etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and come into
operation on 1st April 2024.

### Amendments to the Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995

#### General

2

The Heath and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1995  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 2

3

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the appropriate place in alphabetical
order insert—

“ active member ” means a person who is in superannuable service under the
scheme;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 3

4

4.1

Regulation 3 (meaning of “superannuable pay and “final year’s superannuable
pay”)  is amended as follows.

4.2

In paragraph (6), for “paragraph (6A)”, substitute  “paragraphs (6A) and (6B)”
.

4.3

After paragraph (6A), insert—

4.3.6B

If a member becomes entitled to a pension under regulation 16A (partial
retirement pension),  “final year’s superannuable pay”  means superannuable
pay in respect of the year immediately preceding the day on which the
reduction in the member’s superannuable pay takes effect by virtue of which
the member becomes entitled to the partial retirement pension.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 4

5

5.1

Regulation 4 (meaning of “ superannuable service ”)  is amended as follows.

5.2

In paragraph (2), for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

5.2.b

in the case of a member who has become entitled to a pension (including a
preserved pension) any period taken into account—

5.2.b.i

in determining the member’s entitlement to the pension in payment or, as the
case may be, the preserved pension, or

5.2.b.ii

in calculating the amount of that pension,

but, in the case of a member entitled to a pension under regulation 16A
(partial retirement pension), subject to paragraph (7);

.

5.3

After paragraph (6), insert—

5.3.7

In the case of a member entitled to a pension under regulation 16A (partial
retirement pension), paragraph (2)(b) only applies to so much of the member’s
superannuable service as is mentioned in regulation 16A(11)(a) (the pension to
which the member is immediately entitled as a result of exercising the option
and the specified percentage of the superannuable service that pension
represents).

.

#### New regulations 16A, 16B and 16C

6

After regulation 16 (early retirement pension (with actuarial reduction)),
insert—

######## Partial retirement pension

6.16A

6.16A.1

A member who is in superannuable employment may exercise an option under this
regulation if—

6.16A.1.a

the member—

6.16A.1.a.i

has reached normal minimum pension age or, where relevant, protected pension
age;

6.16A.1.a.ii

has at least two years’ qualifying service; and

6.16A.1.a.iii

continues to be in superannuable employment or, where the member is in more
than one superannuable employment, the member continues to be in at least one
of those superannuable employments;

6.16A.1.b

the terms on which the member holds the superannuable employment or
employments referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(iii) change; and

6.16A.1.c

as a result, the annual rate of the member’s superannuable pay is reduced to
90% or less of the amount of the member’s superannuable pay during the period
of 12 months ending with the option day.

6.16A.2

If the member was not in superannuable employment during the whole of the
period of 12 months referred to in paragraph (1)(c), that paragraph applies as
if the member’s superannuable pay during that period were—

PP x (365 / N) where— PP is the member’s superannuable pay for the part of
that period during which the member was in superannuable employment, and N is
the number of days in that period on which the member was in superannuable
employment.

6.16A.3

The option may only be exercised by notice in writing in such form as the
Department requires and must be accompanied by a statement in writing by the
member’s employing authority, or employing authorities, that the conditions in
paragraph (1)(b) and (c) are met.

6.16A.4

The option must specify—

6.16A.4.a

the percentage of the member’s pension (excluding any additional pension) in
respect of which the member claims immediate payment (“the specified
percentage”);

6.16A.4.b

whether the superannuable service used to calculate the pension referred to at
sub-paragraph (a) is to include additional service (if any) that the member
has purchased under regulation 67 (right to buy additional service); and

6.16A.4.c

whether the member claims immediate payment of additional pension (if any).

6.16A.5

A member who duly exercises the option under this regulation is entitled—

6.16A.5.a

in the case of a member who has reached the age of 60, to immediate payment of
the specified percentage of the pension to which the member would be entitled
under regulation 12 (normal retirement pension) if the member had retired from
superannuable employment on the option day (including any additional service
specified under paragraph (4)(b) but disregarding any additional pension);

6.16A.5.b

in the case of a member who has not reached the age of 60, to immediate
payment of the specified percentage of the pension to which the member would
be entitled under regulation 16 (early retirement pension with actuarial
reduction) if the member had retired from superannuable employment on the
option day (including any additional service specified under paragraph (4)(b)
but disregarding any additional pension);

6.16A.5.c

in the case of a special class officer who meets the retirement condition in
paragraph (12) and has reached the age of 55, to immediate payment of the
specified percentage of the pension to which the member would be entitled
under regulation 12 (normal retirement pension) if the member had retired from
superannuable employment on the option day (including any additional service
specified under paragraph (4)(b) but disregarding any additional pension); and

6.16A.5.d

where the option specifies that the member claims immediate payment of
additional pension—

6.16A.5.d.i

if the option day falls after the member’s chosen birthday, to the immediate
payment of the additional pension; and

6.16A.5.d.ii

if the option day falls before the member’s chosen birthday, to the immediate
payment of the additional pension reduced in accordance with paragraphs (5)
and (6) of regulation 73H (effect of death or early payment of pension after
option exercised under regulation 73A, 73C or 73D).

6.16A.6

If—

6.16A.6.a

the option specifies that the superannuable service used to calculate the
pension referred to at paragraph (5)(a), (b) or (c) is to include additional
service that the member has purchased under regulation 67;

6.16A.6.b

the member’s method of payment for the additional service is regular
additional contributions; and

6.16A.6.c

the option day falls before the member’s chosen date,

then the proportion of additional service to be included in the superannuable
service used to calculate that pension will be reduced in accordance with
paragraph (6) of regulation 73 (part payment for additional service or
unreduced retirement sum).

6.16A.7

Subject to paragraph (8), the specified percentage must be such that the
pension to which the member becomes entitled as a result of the option (before
the exercise of the option under regulation 17A (general option to exchange
part of pension for lump sum) and disregarding any additional benefits)—

6.16A.7.a

is not less than the amount of the pension payable by reference to 20% of the
member’s superannuable service at the end of the option day (disregarding any
additional benefits); and

6.16A.7.b

is not less than 0.05% of the member’s lifetime allowance on the option day.

6.16A.8

Where a member has reached protected pension age but not yet reached normal
minimum pension age, the specified percentage must be 100% of the member’s
superannuable service at the end of the option day (disregarding any
additional benefits).

6.16A.9

Where a pension is payable under paragraph (5)(b), the lump sum payable under
regulation 17 (lump sum on retirement) will be reduced in accordance with
paragraph (7) of regulation 17.

6.16A.10

The option under this regulation may only be exercised on no more than two
occasions and the Department shall take advice from the Scheme Actuary
regarding—

6.16A.10.a

any benefits to be paid after the exercise of the first option (but before the
exercise of the second option);

6.16A.10.b

any benefits to be paid after the exercise of the second option; and

6.16A.10.c

the final payment.

6.16A.11

For the purposes of these Regulations, a member who has exercised the option
under this regulation—

6.16A.11.a

is a member to whom a pension has become payable in respect of the pension to
which the member is immediately entitled as a result of exercising the option
and the specified percentage of the superannuable service that that pension
represents;

6.16A.11.b

if the member continues as an active member of the 2015 Scheme after the
option day, is treated as a member who is in superannuable employment in
respect of so much of the member’s superannuable service in this Section of
the scheme that does not fall within sub-paragraph (a) (“the unspecified
service”); and

6.16A.11.c

if the member does not continue as an active member of the 2015 Scheme after
the option day, is a member with a preserved pension in respect of the
unspecified service.

6.16A.12

In this regulation—

“ additional benefits ” means any additional service specified under paragraph
(4)(b) and any additional pension specified under paragraph (4)(c); “ chosen
birthday ” has the meaning given in paragraph (9) of regulation 73A (option to
pay additional periodical contributions to purchase additional pension); “
chosen date ” has the meaning given in paragraph (3) of regulation 72 (paying
for additional service or unreduced retirement lump sum by regular additional
contributions); “ the option day ” means the day before the reduction in
superannuable pay by virtue of which the option is exercisable takes effect;
“the retirement condition” is met if the Department determines that regulation
75(3)(a) or regulation 76(5) (whichever applies) would have applied to the
special class officer if the officer’s superannuable employment had terminated
on the option day.

######## Increase in superannuable pay following exercise of option under regulation 16A

6.16B

6.16B.1

This regulation applies if, in a case where a member has exercised the option
under regulation 16A—

6.16B.1.a

during the period of 12 months beginning with the day after the option day the
terms on which the member holds the employment or employments referred to in
regulation 16A(1)(a)(iii) change again; and

6.16B.1.b

as a result, the member’s superannuable pay in that employment or those
employments is increased to more than 90% of the member’s superannuable pay
during the period of 12 months ending with the option day; or

6.16B.1.c

following an increase referred to in sub-paragraph (b), the member’s
superannuable pay in that employment or those employments is reduced to less
than 90% of the member’s superannuable pay during the period of 12 months
ending with the option day.

6.16B.2

In the circumstances referred to in—

6.16B.2.a

paragraph (1)(b), the amount of the member’s pension mentioned in sub-
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of regulation 16A(5) (excluding any additional
benefits) shall be abated to zero from the first pension day immediately
following the day on which the level of the member’s superannuable pay
increased;

6.16B.2.b

paragraph (1)(c), subject to any adjustments in accordance with sub-paragraph
(c), the member shall again be entitled to receive payment of the full amount
of the pension mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of regulation
16A(5) as from the first pension day immediately following the day on which
the level of the member’s superannuable pay reduced;

6.16B.2.c

where sub-paragraph (b) applies, before restoring the payment of a pension the
Department shall have regard to the advice of the Scheme Actuary as to whether
the amount of the pension should be adjusted in view of the length of time
during which it was abated to zero in accordance with sub-paragraph (a).

6.16B.3

If the member was not in superannuable employment during the whole of the
period of 12 months mentioned in paragraph (1)(b), that paragraph applies as
if the member’s superannuable pay during that period were—

PP x (365/N) where— PP is the member’s superannuable pay for the part of that
period during which the member was in superannuable employment; and N is the
number of days in that period on which the member was in superannuable
employment.

6.16B.4

If, in the opinion of the Department, had the terms and conditions of the
member’s employment remained the same after the option day (apart from
superannuable pay), the annual rate of superannuable pay for the employment as
at the time of the change mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) would have exceeded
the annual rate referred to in paragraph (1)(b)—

6.16B.4.a

paragraph (2)(a) does not apply; and

6.16B.4.b

this regulation applies as if paragraph (1)(b) referred to that annual rate
instead of the actual annual rate.

6.16B.5

For the purposes of this regulation, if during the period of 12 months
beginning with the day after the option day the member enters a further
superannuable employment or employments—

6.16B.5.a

that event is treated as if the terms on which the member holds the employment
in respect of which the option was exercised (“the option employment”) had
changed again; and

6.16B.5.b

the member’s superannuable pay in the further employment is treated as an
increase in the member’s pay in the option employment.

6.16B.6

In this regulation “additional benefits” and “the option day” have the same
retrospective meanings as in regulation 16A(12).

######## Application of regulations 16A and 16B with modifications where concurrent part-time employments held


6.16C

6.16C.1

This regulation provides for the application of regulations 16A and 16B with
modifications if a member is in superannuable employment in two or more part-
time employments held concurrently on the option day.

6.16C.2

Those regulations apply in relation to each of the employments as if it were
the only employment held by the member on that day, but with the modifications
set out in paragraphs (3) to (8).

6.16C.3

In regulation 16A(1), for sub-paragraph (c) substitute—

6.16C.3.c

as a result of that change, the sum of the annual rate of the member’s
superannuable pay in that employment and every other employment held by the
member on the option day is reduced to 90% or less of the sum of—

6.16C.3.c.i

the member’s superannuable pay in the employment during the period of 12
months ending with the option day; and

6.16C.3.c.ii

the member’s superannuable pay during that period in every other employment
held by the member on the option day.

.

6.16C.4

In regulation 16A(2)—

6.16C.4.a

after “paragraph (1)(c)”, insert  “in the employment or any other employment
referred to in that paragraph” ; and

6.16C.4.b

after “that period”, insert  “in that employment” .

6.16C.5

In regulation 16B(1), for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

6.16C.5.b

as a result the annual rate of the member’s superannuable pay in that
employment is increased to more than 90% of the sum of—

6.16C.5.b.i

the member’s superannuable pay in the employment during the period of 12
months ending with the option day; and

6.16C.5.b.ii

the member’s superannuable pay during that period in every other employment
held by the member on the option day.

.

6.16C.6

In regulation 16B(3)—

6.16C.6.a

after “paragraph (1)(b)”, insert  “in the employment or any other employment
referred to in that paragraph” ; and

6.16C.6.b

after “that period”, insert  “in that employment” .

6.16C.7

For regulation 16B(4), after “referred to in paragraph (1)(b)”, insert  “for
that employment” .

6.16C.8

Where—

6.16C.8.a

a member’s pension is abated in accordance with regulation 16B(2)(a), in the
circumstances described in regulation 16B(1)(b); and

6.16C.8.b

the member’s superannuable pay does not reduce in the manner described in
regulation 16B(1)(c),

the pension will (in any event) be payable by the Department when the member
retires, or partially retires again, from superannuation employment or attains
the age of 75 and in doing so the Department shall—

6.16C.8.i

have regard to any pensions already paid, including any lump sum paid as a
result of the member exercising an option under regulation 17A (general option
to exchange part of pension for lump sum); and

6.16C.8.ii

take advice of the Scheme Actuary.

6.16C.9

In this regulation “ the option day ” has the same meaning as in regulation
16A(12).

.

#### Amendment of regulation 17

7

7.1

Regulation 17 (lump sum on retirement)  is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph (1), for “16”, substitute  “16A” .

7.3

In paragraph (7)—

7.3.a

for “16 applies (early retirement pension with actuarial reduction)”,
substitute  “16 (early retirement pension with actuarial reduction) or
regulation 16A (partial retirement pension) applies” ; and

7.3.b

in sub-paragraph (a), after “regulation 16(2)”, insert  “or regulation
16A(5)(b);” .

#### Amendment of regulation 19

8

8.1

Regulation 19 (member dies after pension becomes payable) is amended as
follows.

8.2

At the end of the heading, add  “(other than a pension under regulation 16A)”
.

8.3

For paragraph (1) substitute—

8.3.1

Subject to paragraph (7), if a member dies after the member’s pension under
any of regulations 12 to 16 becomes payable, a lump sum on death shall be
payable in accordance with regulation 22.

.

#### New regulation 19A

9

After regulation 19 (member dies after pension becomes payable) insert—

######## Member dies after a pension under regulation 16A becomes payable

9.19A

9.19A.1

If a member dies after one or more pensions under regulation 16A become
payable to the member, a lump sum on death shall be payable in accordance with
regulation 22.

9.19A.2

The lump sum on death will be equal to 5 times the yearly rate of each of the
member’s pensions (less the amount of pension already paid) provided that the
maximum payment under this paragraph shall not exceed the aggregate lump sum
cap.

9.19A.3

The aggregate lump sum cap is equal to twice the appropriate fraction of the
member’s final year’s superannuable pay by reference to which the pension to
which the member became entitled on last exercising the option under
regulation 16A was calculated, less an amount equal to the aggregate of—

9.19A.3.a

the member’s retirement lump sum under regulation 17, and

9.19A.3.b

any lump sum paid to the member under regulation 17A.

9.19A.4

In this regulation—

“ the appropriate fraction ” means— DPS / TDPS where DPS is, where the member
continues in superannuable service as an active member of the 2015 Scheme on
the option day (or the last such option day if the option has been exercised
more than once), the total number of days of superannuable service in that
Scheme and this Section of the scheme which do not relate to the specified
percentage of pension on the option day; TDPS is the aggregate of DPS and the
total number of days of superannuable service (at the option day or the last
such option day if the option has been exercised more than once) which relate
to the specified percentage of pension payable; “ the option day ” has the
meaning given in regulation 16A(12); and “ specified percentage ” has the
meaning given in regulation 16A(4) (a).

.

#### Amendment of regulation 25

10

In regulation 25 (member dies after pension becomes payable), in paragraph (5)
after  “(early retirement pension with actuarial reduction)”  insert  “or
regulation 16A (partial retirement pension)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 35

11

In regulation 35 (member dies after pension becomes payable), in paragraph (9)
after regulation  “regulation 13C”  insert  “(further employment after a
benefit is paid under regulation 13A) or regulation 16A (partial retirement
pension)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 36

12

In regulation 36 (member dies with preserved pension), for paragraph (3)
substitute—

12.3

Subject to paragraph (3A), if the member dies 12 months or more after leaving
superannuable employment, the allowance will be calculated as described in
whichever of paragraph (4) or (5) applies, as a proportion of the amount of
the member’s preserved pension if paragraph (11)(c) of regulation 16A applies
to the member, otherwise the greater of—

12.3.a

the member’s preserved pension; and

12.3.b

the amount that the preserved pension would have been if it had been based on
10 years’ superannuable service.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 39

13

In regulation 39 (allocation of pension) , in paragraph (4)(a), after “put
into payment” insert  “other than a pension payable under regulation 16A
(partial retirement pension)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 43

14

In regulation 43 (guaranteed minimum pensions) , in paragraph (2)(b), for
“reduced or suspended under regulation 84 (Suspension of pension on return to
HSC employment) or regulation 85 (Reduction of pension on return to HSC
employment) if the member returns to HSC employment” substitute  “reduced
under regulation 85 (reduction of pension on return to HSC employment)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 49

15

In regulation 49 (preserved pension) , in paragraph (14), for the definition
of “HSC employment”, substitute⸺

“ HSC employment ” does not include employment with an employing authority in
respect of which⸺ a member is eligible to join the 2008 Section; or a member,
other than a member who is no longer required to pay contributions pursuant to
regulation 10(3) or (4) (contributions by members), is eligible to join the
2015 Scheme and that member’s service in this Section does not qualify as, or
has ceased to be, superannuable service to which paragraphs 1(2)(i) and (ii)
or paragraphs 2(2)(i) and (2)(ii) of Schedule 7 (final salary link) to the
2014 Act applies;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 67

16

In regulation 67 (right to buy additional service) , in paragraph (4), after
sub-paragraph (b), for the full stop substitute a semi colon and insert—

16.c

for the purpose of calculating any pension the member becomes entitled to
under paragraph (5)(a), (b) or (c) of regulation 16A (partial retirement
pension), unless the member specifies that any additional service is to be
included in the calculation of that pension in accordance with paragraph
(4)(b) of that regulation.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 77

17

In regulation 77 (members doing more than one job), omit paragraph (8).

#### Amendment of regulation 73H

18

In regulation 73H (effect of death or early payment of pension after option
exercised under regulation 73A, 73C or 73D), in paragraph (5), at the end of
sub-paragraph (c), insert  “; or”  and after that sub-paragraph add—

18.d

becomes entitled to a pension under regulation 16A before the member’s chosen
birthday,

.

#### Omission of regulation 84

19

Omit regulation 84 (suspension of pension on return to HSC employment) .

#### Amendment of regulation 85

20

In regulation 85 (reduction of pension on return to HSC employment), in
paragraph (14), for the definition of “HSC employment” substitute—

“ HSC employment ” includes—

20.a

employment in respect of which regulations made under section 10 of the
Superannuation Act 1972, and having effect in Great Britain apply; and
employment commencing on or before 31st March 2012 to which a scheme made
under section 2 of the Superannuation Act 1984 (an Act of Tynwald) applies;
and

20.b

employment with an employer with whom an agreement has been made under Article
12(9) of the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 or in respect of
whom a direction has been made under Article 12(6) of that Order.

#### Amendment of Schedule 2

21

In Schedule 2 (medical and dental practitioners), after paragraph 12, insert—

######## Partial retirement pension

21.12A

21.12A.1

In the case of members who are or have been practitioners, regulations 16A
(partial retirement pension) and 16B (increase in superannuable pay following
exercise of option under regulation 16A) are modified as follows.

21.12A.2

Regulation 16A is modified so that—

21.12A.2.a

the reference to holding superannuable employment in paragraph (1)(b) is
treated as a reference to engaging in superannuable employment;

21.12A.2.b

the condition in paragraph (1)(c), for the reduction of the member’s
superannuable pay to 90% or less of the member’s superannuable pay during the
period of 12 months ending with the option day, is treated as a condition for
the reduction of the member’s engagement in such employment to 90% or less of
its pre-change level;

21.12A.2.c

paragraph (2) is omitted;

21.12A.2.d

the requirement in paragraph (3), for a statement in writing by the member’s
employing authority that the conditions in paragraph (1)(b) and (c) are met,
is treated as a requirement for appropriate supporting evidence and a
statement in writing approved by the Department that the conditions in
paragraph (1)(b) and (c) are met;

21.12A.2.e

the requirement in paragraph (7)(a), for the pension to which the member
becomes entitled to not be less than the amount of the pension payable by
reference to 20% of the member’s superannuable service at the end of the
option day (disregarding any additional benefits), is treated as a requirement
for the pension to which the member becomes entitled to not be less than 20%
of the pension that would have been payable if the member had ceased to be
employed in all of his employments at the end of the option day (disregarding
any additional benefits);

21.12A.2.f

for the purposes of regulation 16A—

21.12A.2.f.i

“ pre-change level ” means the level of the member’s engagement in the
employment referred to in regulation 16A(1)(a)(iii) during the period of 12
months ending with the option day; and

21.12A.2.f.ii

“ pension ” means the pension that a member would have been entitled to on the
option day if the member had ceased to be employed in all of his employments
and, in the case of practitioner services, the superannuable earnings taken
into account when working out the pension will be drawn from the latest
certificate referred to in paragraph 23 of this Schedule (accounts and
actuarial reports), or the latest scheme year’s final superannuable earnings
referred to in paragraph 10 of this Schedule (contributions to this Section of
the scheme), and agreed with the Department.

21.12A.3

Regulation 16B is modified so that the condition in paragraph (1)(b), for the
member’s superannuable pay to increase to more than 90% of the member’s
superannuable pay during the period of 12 months ending with the option day,
is treated as a condition for the level of the member’s engagement in the
employment or employments referred to in regulation 16A(1)(a)(iii) to increase
to more than 90% of the member’s pre-change level.

21.12A.4

For the purposes of regulation 16B—

21.12A.4.a

“ pre-change level ” has the meaning given in paragraph (2)(f)(i);

21.12A.4.b

a member’s “ employment ” means practitioner service together with any
concurrent HSC employment.

.

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008

#### General

22

The Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2008  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 49

23

In regulation 49 (partial retirement (members aged at least 55)), omit
paragraph (6)(b) and (c).

#### Amendment of regulation 57

24

In regulation 57 (exceptions to requirement that HSC employment must have
ceased), in paragraph (2A), after “if the member” insert  “is not a non-
contributing member and” .

#### Amendment of regulation 180

25

In regulation 180 (partial retirement (members aged at least 55)), omit
paragraph (5)(b).

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

26

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 19

27

In regulation 19 (restrictions on membership) , omit paragraph (c).

#### Amendment of regulation 83

28

In regulation 83 (election for partial retirement (members over normal minimum
pension age)), omit paragraph (5)(b).

#### Amendment of regulation 85

29

In regulation 85 (terms of employment improve after election), in paragraph
(3), after regulation “regulation 84(2)” insert  “(a) and (b)” .

### The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

30

The Health and Social Care (Transitional and Consequential Provisions)
(Northern Ireland) Regulations 2015  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 2

31

31.1

Regulation 2 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

31.2

In the appropriate place, insert—

“ non-superannuable 1995 Section member ” means a member of— the 1995 Section
who, on 31st March 2022, is no longer required to pay contributions under
regulation 10 (3) or (4) (contributions by members) of the 1995 Regulations;
and the new scheme in respect of service on or after 1st April 2024; “ non-
pensionable 2008 Section member ” means a member of— the 2008 Section who, on
31st March 2022, is a non-contributing member within the meaning of regulation
6 (interpretation of Part 2: officers) or 137 (interpretation of Part 3:
general) of the 2008 Regulations; and the new scheme in respect of service on
or after 1st April 2024; “ non-pensionable old scheme member ” means— a non-
pensionable 1995 Section member; or a non-pensionable 2008 Section member;

.

31.3

In the definition of “officer transition member”, after “a person” insert
“other than a non-pensionable old scheme member” .

31.4

In the definition of “practitioner transition member”, after “a person” insert
“other than a non-pensionable old scheme member” .

#### Amendment of regulation 10A

32

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 14

33

33.1

Regulation 14 (determination of pensionable pay, final pensionable pay and
reckonable pay) is amended as follows.

33.2

In paragraph (1), after the words “a 1995 officer transition member” insert
“or a non-pensionable 1995 Section member” .

33.3

In paragraph (2), after the words “a 2008 officer transition member” insert
“or a non-pensionable 2008 Section member” .

#### Amendment of regulation 15

34

In regulation 15 (no refund of contributions in cases of inordinate pay) for
“1995 officer transition member’s final year’s pensionable pay” substitute
“member’s final years’ pensionable pay in respect of a 1995 officer transition
member or a non-pensionable 1995 Section member” .

#### Amendment of regulation 16

35

In regulation 16 (cessation of final salary link on payment of benefits),
after “member’s benefits” insert  “or a non-pensionable old scheme member’s
benefits” .

#### New regulation 17A

36

After regulation 17 (Final salary link: Mental Health Officers), insert—

######## Final salary link: non-pensionable old scheme members

36.17A

36.17A.1

This regulation applies if benefits under the old scheme payable to or in
respect of a non-pensionable old scheme member are to be calculated by
reference to that member’s final salary as determined in accordance with
Schedule 7 to the 2014 Act (“the member’s final salary link”).

36.17A.2

Where this regulation applies, the benefits under the old scheme payable to or
in respect of the member may be calculated without reference to the member’s
final salary link if it would be more beneficial to the member or other
beneficiary to do so.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 31

37

37.1

Regulation 31 (partial retirement)  is amended as follows.

37.2

For paragraph (1) substitute⸺

37.2.1

Where a transition member or non-pensionable old scheme member elects to claim
a specified percentage of that member’s pension pursuant to regulation 83 of
the 2015 Regulations, that election is to be treated as also being an option
for the purposes of partial retirement pension pursuant to whichever of the
following regulations applies to the member⸺

37.2.1.a

regulation 16A of the 1995 Regulations (with or without the modifications made
in paragraph 12A of Schedule 2); or

37.2.1.b

regulations 49 or 180 of the 2008 Regulations.

.

37.3

For paragraph (2) substitute⸺

37.3.2

A transition member or non-pensionable old scheme member does not become
entitled to a specified percentage of a pension under regulation 83 of the
2015 Regulations until the member has become entitled to and claimed all the
benefits in⸺

37.3.2.a

the 1995 Section; or

37.3.2.b

the 2008 Section.

.

37.4

For paragraph (3) substitute—

37.4.3

For the purposes of regulation 16A(7) and paragraph 12A of Schedule 2 to the
1995 Regulations, or regulation 49(6) and 180(5) of the 2008 Regulations, and
regulation 83(5) of the 2015 Regulations (as the case may be)—

37.4.3.a

the pension, other than the pension claimed in respect of additional benefits
(in the case of regulation 16A of the 1995 Regulations) or additional pension
(in the case of regulation 49 and 180 of the 2008 Regulations), to which the
member becomes entitled as a result of the option or election (before
converting pension to lump sum) is not to be less than the amount of pension
payable by reference to 20% of the aggregate of the member’s pensionable
service under the 1995 Regulations, or the 2008 Regulations (as the case may
be), and the 2015 Regulations at the end of the option day; and

37.4.3.b

taken together with any increase to which the member has become entitled as a
result of the option or election, the aggregate of the member’s pension under
the 1995 Regulations, or the 2008 Regulations (as the case may be), and the
2015 Regulations is not less than 0.05% of the member’s lifetime allowance on
the option day.

.

#### Amendment of Regulation 35

38

38.1

Regulation 35 (variations to lump sums for 1995 and 2008 pensioners joining
new scheme), is amended as follows.

38.2

In the heading, add  “(other than pensioners who have taken a partial
retirement pension)”

38.3

In paragraph (1)—

38.3.a

for “and 7”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “,7, 9 and 10” ;and

38.3.b

after “paragraph 2 of Schedule 1” add  “other than persons who have taken a
partial retirement pension.” .

38.4

For paragraph (3) substitute—

38.4.3

In this regulation—

“ partial retirement pension ” means a pension under— regulation 16A of the
1995 Regulations; regulation 49 or 180 of the 2008 Regulations; or regulation
83 of the 2015 Regulations; and “ the relevant pension ” means where the
member has not taken partial retirement from the new scheme pursuant to
regulation 83 of the 2015 Regulations, an amount equal to— if the member dies
before reaching normal pension age in the new scheme, a tier 2 IHP within the
meaning of regulation 89(1)(b) of the 2015 Regulations; or if the member dies
on or after reaching normal pension age in the new scheme, a pension under
regulation 72 of the 2015 Regulations.

.

#### New Regulation 35A

39

39.1

After regulation 35 (variations to lump sums for 1995 and 2008 pensioners
joining new scheme) insert—

########## Variations to lump sums for 1995 and 2008 pensioners joining new scheme (pensioners who have taken a partial retirement pension)

39.1.35A

39.1.35A.1

This regulation applies to persons falling in Groups 1 to 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10 in
the table at paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 and Groups 1 to 4, 6 and 7 in the table
at paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 who have taken a partial retirement pension.

39.1.35A.2

Where this regulation applies the lump sum payable on the death of an active
member in place of any lump sum otherwise payable in respect of that member
under regulation 111(a) of the 2015 Regulations and regulation 85(2)(a) or
regulation 193A(2)(a) of the 2008 Regulations are the lump sums found under—

39.1.35A.2.a

paragraph (3), if the member has taken an old scheme partial retirement
pension but has not taken a new scheme partial retirement pension; and

39.1.35A.2.b

paragraph (4), if the member has taken a new scheme partial retirement
pension.

39.1.35A.3

Where paragraph (2)(a) applies, the lump sum is an amount equal to the
appropriate fraction of an amount that is the better of—

39.1.35A.3.a

twice the member’s relevant earnings calculated in accordance with paragraph
7(2)(a)(i) of Schedule 12 to the 2015 Regulations (death of a partial
retirement pensioner); and

39.1.35A.3.b

twice the member’s re-valued pensionable earnings for the scheme year falling
in the earnings reference period which has the largest re-valued pensionable
earnings calculated in accordance with paragraph 7(2)(a)(ii) of Schedule 12
(lump sum on death) to the 2015 Regulations, that Schedule.

39.1.35A.4

Where paragraph (2)(b) applies, the lump sum is an amount determined by the
scheme manager after taking advice from the scheme actuary.

39.1.35A.5

In this regulation—

“ appropriate fraction ” means— DPS / TDPS where— DPS is, where the member
continues in pensionable service as an active member of the 2015 Scheme on the
option day (or the last such option day if the option has been exercised more
than once), the total number of days of pensionable service in that Scheme and
this Section of the scheme which do not relate to the specified percentage of
pension at the option day; and TDPS is the aggregate of DPS and the total
number of days of pensionable service (at the option day or the last such
option day if the option has been exercised more than once) which relate to
the specified percentage of pension payable; “ old scheme partial retirement
pension ” means a pension under— regulation 16A of the 1995 Regulations; or
regulation 49 or 180 of the 2008 Regulations (whichever applies); “ option day
” has the meaning given in— paragraph (11) of regulation 16A of the 1995
Regulations in the case of a member who has taken a partial retirement pension
under that regulation; paragraph (8) of regulation 49 of the 2008 Regulations
in the case of a member who has taken a partial retirement pension under that
regulation; and paragraph (7)(b)(ii) of regulation 180 of the 2008 Regulations
in the case of a member who has taken a partial retirement pension under that
regulation; and “ specified percentage of pension ” has the meaning given in—
paragraph (4) of regulation 16A of the 1995 Regulations in the case of a
member who has taken a partial retirement pension under that regulation;
paragraph (4) of regulation 49 of the 2008 Regulations in the case of a member
who has taken a partial retirement pension under that regulation; and
paragraph (3) of regulation 180 of the 2008 Regulations in the case of a
member who has taken a partial retirement pension under that regulation.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 38

40

40.1

Regulation 38 (death in service) is amended as follows.

40.2

In paragraph (1)—

40.2.a

for “the table” substitute  “Table 1” ;

40.2.b

for the heading “Table” substitute  “Table 1 Transition member entitlements”

40.3

After paragraph (1), insert—

40.3.1A

As regards a non-pensionable old scheme member, or a person who derives a
benefit from the old scheme or new scheme in respect of a non-pensionable old
scheme member, the entitlement listed in column 1 of Table 2 is disapplied and
the corresponding entitlement in column 2 applies instead.

Table 2 - Non-pensionable old scheme member entitlements Column 1 Column 2
Original entitlement Revised entitlement PART 1 Entitlements derived from the
1995 Section a lump sum on death under regulation 18. a lump sum on death
under regulation 111(a) of the 2015 Regulations which is equal to the greater
of– (a) the lump sum calculated in accordance with paragraph 2 (death of
active member) of schedule 12 (lump sum on death) to the 2015 Regulations; and
(b) the lump sum otherwise due under the original entitlement to a lump sum on
death under regulation 18 of the 1995 Regulations. an initial adult survivor
pension under regulation 24(3B) at the rate of the member’s superannuable pay
for the first six months after the member’s death. a pension payable from the
new scheme during the initial period at the rate which is equal to the greater
of– a) the rate of the member’s pensionable earnings under regulation 114(4)
of the 2015 Regulations; and (b) the rate of the member’s pensionable pay that
would have applied under the original entitlement in respect of the member
under regulation 24(3B) of the 1995 Regulations where references in regulation
24(3C) and 34(4B) and (4C) of the 1995 Section to regulation 24(3B) are to be
taken to be a reference to a pension payable under regulation 114(4) of the
2015 Regulations. an ongoing pension under regulation 24(3C) based on one half
of the member’s notional ill-health pension had the member become entitled to
a tier 2 pension under regulation 13A on the member’s last day of
superannuable employment. (a) payable from the 1995 Section in respect of
service in that Section, an ongoing adult survivor pension equal to the
pension that would have been payable to the adult survivor under Regulations
23-31H of the 1995 Section if the member had retired with a pension under
regulation 12 of the 1995 Section on the member’s last day of pensionable
employment; and (b) payable from the new scheme in respect of service in that
scheme, an ongoing survivor pension based on a Tier 2 IHP under regulation
114(5) of the 2015 Regulations. a dependant child’s pension under regulation
34 equal to the rate of the member’s final year’s superannuable pay, payable
for the first— (a) three months under paragraph (4C); (b) six months under
paragraph (4D); (c) six months under paragraph (4E). an initial pension
payable from the new scheme equal to the greater of– (a) an initial pension of
the same amount and for the same duration under paragraph (6) or (7) of
regulation 122 of the 2015 Regulations; and (b) an initial pension of the same
amount and for the same duration as the original entitlement in respect of the
member under regulation 34 of the 1995 Regulations. an ongoing pension under
regulation 34(2A) based on a proportion of the member’s notional ill-health
pension had the member become entitled to a tier 2 pension under regulation
13A on the member’s last day of superannuable employment or, if greater, the
amount that pension would have been had it been based on 10 years pensionable
service. (a) payable from the 1995 Section in respect of service in that
Section, an ongoing pension equal to the relevant proportion of the pension
that would have been payable to the member if the member had retired with a
pension under regulation 12 of the 1995 Section on the member’s last day of
pensionable employment; and (b) payable from the new scheme in respect of
service in that scheme, an ongoing pension based on the appropriate fraction
of the basic death pension specified under regulation 122(3) and (4) of the
2015 Regulations. PART 2 Entitlement derived from the 2008 Section a lump sum
on death under regulation 83(1) or 210(1). a lump sum on death under
regulation 111(a) of the 2015 Regulations which is equal to the greater of–
(a) the lump sum calculated in accordance with paragraph 2 (death of active
member) of schedule 12 (lump sum on death) to the 2015 Regulations; and (b)
the lump sum otherwise due under the original entitlement to a lump sum on
death under regulation 83(1) or 210(1) of the 2008 Regulations. a surviving
adult dependent’s pension during the initial period of six months— (a) under
regulation 69(1)(b) equal to the deceased’s reckonable pay; or (b) under
regulation 196(1)(b) equal to the monthly average of the deceased’s uprated
earnings on the member’s last day of superannuable service. a pension payable
from the new scheme during the initial period at the rate which is equal to
the greater of– (a) the rate of the member’s pensionable earnings under
regulation 114(4) of the 2015 Regulations; and (b) the rate of the deceased’s
reckonable pay under regulation 69(1)(b) of the 2008 Regulations or the
monthly average of the deceased’s uprated earnings on the member’s last day of
pensionable service under regulation 196(1)(b) of the 2008 Regulations, where
references in regulation 69(2) and 196(2) of the 2008 Regulations to “after
the initial period” are to be taken to be a reference to the period for which
the initial pension payable under regulation 114(4) of the 2015 Regulations is
payable. If the member has not reached the age of 65: an ongoing pension after
the initial period— (a) under regulation 69(2)(a) equal to 37.5% of the tier 2
ill health pension under regulation 58 to which the member would have been
entitled if, on the date of death, the member had become entitled to such a
pension; or (b) under regulation 196(2)(a) equal to the appropriate proportion
of the tier 2 ill health pension under regulation 182 to which the member
would have been entitled if, on the date of death, the member had become
entitled to such a pension. If the member has reached the age of 65: an
ongoing pension after the initial period— (a) under regulation 69(2)(b) equal
to 37.5% of the pension under regulation 45 to which the member would have
been entitled if, on the date of death, the member had become entitled to such
a pension in respect of any period of superannuable service; or (b) under
regulation 196(2)(b) equal to the appropriate proportion of the tier 2 ill
health pension under regulation 176 to which the member would have been
entitled if, on the date of death, the member had become entitled to such a
pension in respect of any period of superannuable service. (a) payable from
the 2008 Section in respect of service in that Section, an ongoing adult
survivor pension after the initial period equal to— (i) 37.5% of the pension
under regulation 45 to which the member would have been entitled if, on the
date of death, the member had become entitled to such a pension in respect of
any period of pensionable service that the member is entitled to count; or
(ii) the appropriate proportion of the pension under regulation 176 to which
the member would have been entitled if, on the date of death, the member had
become entitled to such a pension in respect of any period of pensionable
service that the member is entitled to count; and (b) payable from the new
scheme in respect of service in that scheme, an ongoing survivor pension based
on a Tier 2 IHP under regulation 114(5) of the 2015 Regulations. a dependant
child’s pension under— (a) regulation 76 equal to the rate of the deceased
member’s reckonable pay, payable for the first— (i) three months under
paragraph (6)(ii); (ii) six months under paragraph (7)(ii); or (b) regulation
203 equal to the rate of the monthly average of the deceased’s uprated
earnings on the member’s last day of superannuable service, payable for the
first— (i) three months under paragraph (5)(ii); (ii) six months under
paragraph (6)(b). an initial pension payable from the new scheme equal to the
greater of– (a) an initial pension of the same amount and for the same
duration under paragraph (6) or (7) of regulation 122 of the 2015 Regulations;
and (b) an initial pension of the same amount and for the same duration as the
original entitlement in respect of the member under regulation 76 or 203 of
the 2008 Regulations. an ongoing pension under regulation 76(3) or 203(3)
equal to the appropriate fraction of the basic death pension. (a) payable from
the 2008 Section in respect of service in that Section, an ongoing pension
equal to the appropriate fraction of the basic death pension payable under –
(i) regulation 76(3) of the 2008 Regulations; or (ii) regulation 203(3) of the
2008 Regulations where that pension is based on the pensionable service that
the deceased was entitled to count at the date of death; and (b) payable from
the new scheme in respect of service in that scheme, an ongoing pension based
on the appropriate fraction of the basic death pension specified under
regulation 122(3) and (4) of the 2015 Regulations.

40.4

In paragraph (2)—

40.4.a

for “the table”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “Table 1 or Table 2”
and

40.4.b

after the first occurrence of “column 1” add  “of either table” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 1

41

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1(eligibility of 1995 Section pensioners to join
the new scheme) , at the end of the table insert—

9 a 1995 Section pensioner in receipt of a tier 2 pension under regulation 13A
of the 1995 Regulations— (a) who returns to HSC employment and the first
anniversary of that return is on or after 1st April 2024; and (b) whose
protection period for the purposes of regulation 13C of the 1995 Regulations
spans 1st April 2023 or begins on or after 1st April 2024. eligible to be an
active member of the new scheme on the day after the protection period in
regulation 13C(6)(b) of the 1995 Regulations ends. 10 a 1995 Section
pensioner, other than a tier 2 ill-health pensioner, who does not fall within
one of the Groups above. eligible to be an active member of the new scheme, or
re-join the new scheme, on the first day on or after 1st April 2024 on which
the member is in an employment that would, apart from the operation of
regulation 19(d) of the 2015 Regulations, otherwise be eligible for membership
under those Regulations.

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

#### General

42

The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable Service) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 are amended in accordance with this Part.

43

43.1

In Regulation 73 (partial retirement: deferred choice members) in paragraph
(1) before sub-paragraph (a) insert—

43.1.za

regulation 16A of the 1995 Regulations  (partial retirement pension);

.

43.2

In paragraph (5) in the definition of “specified percentage” after “given in”
insert  “regulation 16A(4)(a) of the 1995 Regulations,” .

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 8 th  March 2024.
(L.S.) Philip Rodgers A senior officer of the Department of Health The
Department of Finance consents to the foregoing Regulations. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 8 th  March 2024. (L.S.) Barry
Armstrong A senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations further amend the Health and Personal Social Services
(Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995( S.R.1995 No. 95 ) (“ the
1995 Regulations ”), the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2008 ( S.R. 2008 No.256 ) (“ the 2008 Regulations ”), the
Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (
S.R. 2015 No. 120 ) (“ the 2015 Regulations ”), the Health and Social Care
Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. 2015 No.122 ) (“ the 2015 Transitional
Regulations ”) and the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Remediable
Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) (“ the 2023 McCloud Regulations ”)
S.R. 2023 No.132 .

  These Regulations come into operation on 1 st  April 2024.

  Part 1 provides for citation and commencement.

  Part 2 makes amendments to the 1995 Regulations to provide for partial
retirement for 1995 Section members and to permanently remove the ’16 hour
rule’, which requires a member’s pension benefits to be suspended if they
return to HSC employment and commit to more than 16 hours per week within one
month of the pension becoming payable. Regulations 3,4 and 5 update the
definitions of “final year’s pensionable pay” and “pensionable service” and
add a new definition of “active member”. Regulation 6 inserts new regulations
16A, 16B and 16C. New regulation 16A which sets out the qualifying
requirements for partial retirement and the entitlements. New regulation 16B
deals with abatement of partial retirement benefits if members who partially
retire then increase their pensionable pay. New regulation 16C makes provision
for how new regulations 16A and 16B apply in circumstances where a member is
in pensionable employment in two or more part-time employments. Regulation 7
updates the provisions for lump sum on retirement. Regulation 8 makes a
consequential amendment to Regulation 19 and Regulation 9 inserts a new
Regulation 19A to provide lump sums for members who die after a partial
retirement pension becomes payable. Regulation 10 provides that any actuarial
reduction applied to a partial retirement pension is not applied to the
corresponding widow’s pension that is payable. Regulation 11 provides that any
actuarial reduction is not applied to any child survivor pension payable.
Regulation 12 disapplies the 10 year underpin from the calculation of child
survivor pension payable where members have taken partial retirement.
Regulation 13 provides that members taking partial retirement are not entitled
to allocate part of that pension to their partner or spouse on death.
Regulation 14, 17, 19 and 20 amend the 1995 Regulations to permanently remove
the ’16 hour rule’, which requires a member’s pension benefits to be suspended
if they return to HSC employment and commit to more than 16 hours per week
within one month of the pension becoming payable. Regulation 15 makes an
amendment to exclude non-pensionable members becoming entitled to their
pension without having to leave HSC employment. Regulation 16 prevents added
years being included automatically in the calculation of partial retirement.
Regulation 18 ensures that partial retirement pensions are in scope of the
rules on reduction of added years. Regulation 21 amends the provisions in
Schedule 2 on partial retirement pensions for medical and dental
practitioners.

  Part 3 makes amendments to the 2008 Regulations. Regulations 23 and 25 makes
an amendment to allow 100% drawdown for 2008 Section members. Regulation 24
makes an amendment to exclude non-pensionable members becoming entitled to
their pension without having to leave HSC employment.

  Part 4 makes amendments to the 2015 Regulations. Regulation 27 makes an
amendment to allow non-pensionable old scheme members to join the 2015 Scheme.
Regulation 28 makes an amendment to allow 100% drawdown in the 2015 Scheme.
Regulation 29 corrects a pre-existing error in the 2015 Regulations.

  Part 5 makes amendments to the 2015 Transitional Regulations. Regulation 31
inserts the new terms into the interpretation provision to cover non-
pensionable old scheme members. Regulation 32 makes amendment in respect of
such a member recommencing service after a break. Regulation 33 makes
provision on the determination of such a member’s pensionable pay, final
pensionable pay and reckonable pay. Regulation 34 makes provision regarding
the refund of contributions in cases of inordinate pay. Regulation 35 makes
provision regarding cessation of the final salary link on payment of benefits.
Regulation 36 makes provision that the final salary link may not be applied to
non-pensionable old scheme members joining the 2015 scheme, if to not apply it
would be more beneficial to the member. Regulation 37 makes amendments
requiring members who take partial retirement to claim their benefits from the
old scheme before claiming any benefits in the new scheme. Regulations 38 and
39 make provision regarding the variation of lump sums for members who have
taken partial retirement. Regulation 40 makes provision for death benefits for
non-pensionable old scheme members, inserting a new Table 2 setting out the
benefits payable to non-pensionable old scheme members who join the 2015
scheme, ensuring their entitlements under the new scheme are not worse than
under the old scheme. Regulation 41 amends the 2015 Transitional Regulations
to allow certain 1995 Scheme pensioners to join the 2015 Scheme and receive
the correct lump sum for death in service.

  Part 6 makes amendments to the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes
(Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023. Regulation 43 makes
provision for the 1995 scheme members in respect of certain retirement
categories supplementing or varying the effect the remedy would otherwise have
in relation to benefits already in payment including those paid on the grounds
of partial retirement in the interests of efficiency.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as no,
or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is
foreseen.

