Title: The Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Register of Overseas Entities) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: These Regulations make provision for the fees to be payable to the registrar of companies for England and Wales (“the registrar”) in respect of functions relating to the register of overseas entities kept by the registrar in accordance with Part 1 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 (c. 10).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/153

## The Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Register of Overseas Entities) Regulations 2024

    FEES AND CHARGES

  Made   14th February 2024

  Laid before Parliament   19th February 2024

  Coming into force   1st May 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1063(1) to 1063(3A) and 1292(1)(c) of the Companies Act
2006 .

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Register
of Overseas Entities) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st May 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the 2022 Act ” means the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act
2022 ; ... ... “ overseas entity ” has the meaning given in section 2 of the
2022 Act; “ register of overseas entities ” means the register referred to in
section 3(1) of the 2022 Act; “ the registrar ” has the meaning given in
section 3(1) of the 2022 Act.

### Fees payable to the registrar.

3

The Schedule to these Regulations makes provision for the fees that are
payable to the registrar in respect of functions relating to the register of
overseas entities.

### Transitional provisions

4

Regulation 3 and the Schedule do not have effect where any document or
application delivered to the registrar on or before   30th April 2024   is
registered on or after   1st May 2024 .

      Kevin Hollinrake   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department
for Business and Trade     14th February 2024

  FEES PAYABLE

Regulation 3

##### Register of Overseas Entities



  In respect of the performance by the registrar of functions in relation to
the register of overseas entities the fee specified in relation to the matter
below is payable on the registration of the documents so delivered relating to
that matter except as provided in sub-paragraph (c)—

        Matter for which fee is payable Amount of fee       a     for the
registration of an overseas entity under Part 1 Section 4 of the 2022 Act—
i     where the required documents are delivered in hard copy form,
£467.00     ii     where the required documents are delivered by electronic
means;       £234.00     b     for the delivery to the registrar of the
statements and information required under the updating duty under Part 1
Section 7 of the 2022 Act—           i     where the required documents are
delivered in hard copy form,       £467.00     ii     where the required
documents are delivered by electronic means;       £234.00     c     for the
application by a registered overseas entity for removal from the list of
registered overseas entities under Part 1 Section 9 of the 2022 Act payable on
receipt of the application—           i     where the application is delivered
in hard copy form,       £940.00     ii     where the application is delivered
by electronic means.       £706.00

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for the fees to be payable to the registrar
of companies for England and Wales (“ the registrar ”) in respect of functions
relating to the register of overseas entities kept by the registrar in
accordance with Part 1 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement)
Act  2022 (c. 10) .

  The Regulations provide for the fees previously determined administratively
by the registrar under section 1063(5) of the Companies Act  2006 (c. 46)  and
set out in the Register of Overseas Entities Fees Determination made on 17th
August 2023 (“Fees Determination”).

  The Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act  2023 (c. 56)  included
amendments to section 1063 of the Companies Act 2006 to provide for the cost
of investigative and enforcement activities to be taken into account when
determining fees. These Regulations are made under section 1063 and increase
the level of fees payable compared to those set out in the Fees Determination.

  Regulation 3(1) and the related Schedule provide the fees to be payable to
the registrar in respect of functions relating to the register of overseas
entities.

  Regulation 3(2) provides that the fees in the Schedule for delivery of
documents or an application in hard copy form will only be payable in
circumstances where an exception to the duty to deliver documents by
electronic means as set out in regulation 4 of the Register of Overseas
Entities (Delivery, Protection and Trust Services) Regulations 2022 ( S.I.
2022/870 ) is applicable.

  Regulation 4 provides that the new fees in Regulation 3 and the related
Schedule are subject to transitional provisions.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

