Title: The Period Products (Department of Education Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Statutory Rule is made under section 2(1) of the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022. It specifies the public service bodies who are subject to the duty at section 2(3) of the Act (specified public service bodies). It provides the descriptions of premises to be treated as premises of a specified public service body for the purposes of the Act and provides for descriptions of persons to be treated as in those specified public service bodies’ premises for the purposes of the Act.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/94

## The Period Products (Department of Education Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Period Products (free Provision)

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   16 April 2024

  Coming into operation   16 April 2024

      The Department of Education  makes the following Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by section 2(1), (2)(b), (7)(a) and (b) and (13) of
the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022  and after
consultation in accordance with section 2(8)(a) of that Act.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Period Products (Department of Education
Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall
come into operation on the 16 April 2024.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ administrative accommodation ” means accommodation leased or owned by
a specified public service body for the purpose of effecting its statutory
functions and is not—         school premises;           premises used as
education other than at school settings; or           premises used as
statutory youth settings;                 “ CCMS ” means the Council for
Catholic Maintained Schools established under Part IX of the Education Reform
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ;           “ education other than at school
settings ” shall be construed in accordance with Article 86(1) of the 1998
Order;           “ GTCNI ” means the General Teaching Council for Northern
Ireland established under Part VI of the 1998 Order;           “ NICCEA ”
means the Northern Ireland Council for Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment
established under Part VII of the 1998 Order;           “ premises ” is to be
construed in accordance with regulation 4(a);           “ pupil ” means a
person who—         has reached compulsory school age;           is not over
the upper age limit of senior pupil;           is registered at a school or
education other than at school setting; and           in respect of whom
education is provided under the Education Orders;                 “ specified
public service body ” means the bodies listed at regulation 3(2);           “
staff ” means employees or agency workers in the premises of a specified
public service body;           “ statutory youth setting ” means facilities
for recreational, social, physical, cultural and youth service activities,
provided by the Authority in accordance with Article 37 of the 1986 Order;
“ the Act ” means the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern Ireland)
2022;           “ the 1986 Order ” means the Education and Libraries (Northern
Ireland) Order 1986 ;           “ the 1998 Order ” means the Education
(Northern Ireland) Order 1998 ;           “ visitors ” means a person with
legitimate reason for being in the premises of a specified public service
body, such as attending meetings or events or providing a function;
“ young people ” means people aged 9 to 25 years.

2.2

The following words and expressions have the same meaning as in Article 2(2)
of the 1986 Order:-

2.2.a

“compulsory school age”;

2.2.b

“controlled school”;

2.2.c

“grant-maintained integrated school”;

2.2.d

“independent school”;

2.2.e

“senior pupil”;

2.2.f

“the Authority” ;

2.2.g

“the Education Orders”;

2.2.h

“the Department”;

2.2.i

“voluntary school”.

2.3

For the purposes of these Regulations, “ managers ” means—

2.3.a

in relation to a controlled school, the Authority;

2.3.b

in relation to a voluntary or grant-maintained integrated school, the Board of
Governors of the school; and

2.3.c

in relation to an independent school, the proprietor of the school.

### Specified public service bodies

3

3.1

The Department specifies the bodies listed at paragraph (2) for the purposes
of section 2(1) of the Act (specified public service bodies).

3.2

The specified public service bodies mentioned at paragraph (1) are—

3.2.a

the Authority—

3.2.a.i

as manager of controlled schools;

3.2.a.ii

in respect of statutory youth settings;

3.2.a.iii

in respect of education other than at school settings; and

3.2.a.iv

in respect of its administrative accommodation.

3.2.b

managers of voluntary schools;

3.2.c

managers of grant-maintained integrated schools;

3.2.d

managers of independent schools;

3.2.e

CCMS, in respect of its administrative accommodation;

3.2.f

GTCNI, in respect of its administrative accommodation; and

3.2.g

NICCEA, in respect of its administrative accommodation.

### Descriptions of persons and premises

4

For the purposes of section 2(3) of the Act—

4.a

the descriptions of premises listed in column 2 of the Table below are to be
treated as being premises of the specified public service body listed at
column 1; and

4.b

the descriptions of persons listed at column 3 of the Table below are to be
treated as being in the premises of the specified public service body listed
at column 1.

  Table        Column 1 - Specified Public Service Body Column 2 -
Descriptions of Premises Column 3- Descriptions of persons in premises   (a)
(i) The Authority, as manager of controlled schools All buildings comprising
school premises     (i) pupils       (ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (a)
(ii) The Authority, in respect of statutory youth settings Authority owned or
leased premises used as statutory youth settings     (i) young people
(ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (a) (iii) The Authority, in respect of
education other than at school settings Authority owned or leased premises
used as education other than at school settings     (i) pupils       (ii)
staff       (iii) visitors     (a) (iv) The Authority, in respect of its
administrative accommodation Authority administrative accommodation     (i)
staff       (ii) visitors     (b) Managers of voluntary schools All buildings
comprising school premises     (i) pupils       (ii) staff       (iii)
visitors     (c) Managers of grant-maintained integrated schools All buildings
comprising school premises     (i) pupils       (ii) staff       (iii)
visitors     (d) Managers of independent schools All buildings comprising
school premises     (i) pupils       (ii) staff       iii) visitors     (e)
CCMS CCMS administrative accommodation     (i) staff       (ii) visitors
(f) GTCNI GTCNI administrative accommodation     (i) staff       (ii) visitors
(g) NICCEA NICCEA administrative accommodation     (i) staff       (ii)
visitors

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Education on 16 April
2024       (L.S.)   Peter Hutchinson   A senior officer of the   Department

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This Statutory Rule is made under section 2(1) of the Period Products (Free
Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 . It specifies the public service
bodies who are subject to the duty at section 2(3) of the Act (specified
public service bodies). It provides the descriptions of premises to be treated
as premises of a specified public service body for the purposes of the Act and
provides for descriptions of persons to be treated as in those specified
public service bodies’ premises for the purposes of the Act.

