Title: The Pensions Increase (Review) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-04-09
Description: Under section 69 of the Social Security Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1975 (c.15) (increase of official pensions), where the Department for Communities under section 132(1) of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 (c.8), directs that the sums which are the additional pensions in long-term benefits are to be increased by a specified percentage, the Department of Finance shall provide by order for the increase in the rates of public service pensions. The Pensions (Increase) Act (Northern Ireland) 1971 (c.35) defines certain terms and sets out when a pension “begins” (the day after the last day of service in respect of which the pension is payable) and how the increase applies to lump sums.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/77

## The Pensions Increase (Review) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Pensions

  Made   26th March 2024

  Coming into operation   8th April 2024

      In accordance with section 132 of the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992  the Department for Communities  has given a
direction  that the sums which are the additional pensions in long-term
benefits are to be increased by a specified percentage.           The
Department of Finance now makes the following Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by Article 69(1), (2), (5) and (5ZA) of the Social Security Pensions
(Northern Ireland) Order 1975  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Pensions Increase (Review) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on 8th April 2024.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order, “ the 1975 Order ” means the Social Security Pensions (Northern
Ireland) Order 1975.

2.2

In this Order, any reference to a pension is a reference to a pension which
began before 8th April 2024 .

### Pension increases: annual rate and lump sums

3

3.1

This article applies to an official pension if—

3.1.a

a qualifying condition is satisfied; or

3.1.b

the pension is—

3.1.b.i

a derivative pension,

3.1.b.ii

a substituted pension or,

3.1.b.iii

a relevant injury pension.

3.2

In relation to any period on or after 8th April 2024, the pension authority
may increase the annual rate  of the pension—

3.2.a

for a pension which began before 10th April 2023, by 6.7 per cent;

3.2.b

for a pension which began on or after 10th April 2023, by 6.7 per cent
multiplied by—

        A     12

where A is the number of complete months in the period between the beginning
date of the pension and 8th April 2024.

3.3

In relation to a lump sum which is payable on or after 10th April 2023 but
before 8th April 2024, the pension authority may increase the lump sum by 6.7
per cent multiplied by—

        A     12

where A is the number of complete months in the period between the beginning
date of the lump sum (or, if later, 10th April 2023) and the date on which it
becomes payable.

### Reductions in respect of guaranteed minimum pensions

4

4.1

Where—

4.1.a

a person is entitled to an increase in a guaranteed minimum pension on 8th
April 2024; and

4.1.b

entitlement to that guaranteed minimum pension arises from an employment from
which (either directly, or indirectly by virtue of the payment of a transfer
credit) entitlement to the official pension also arises;

the amount by reference to which any increase is calculated for the purposes
of article 3(2) must be reduced by an amount equal to the rate of the
guaranteed minimum pension unless the Department of Finance otherwise direct
in accordance with the provision of Article 69A  of the 1975 Order .

4.2

Where on the death of a deceased spouse or civil partner a person becomes
entitled to a guaranteed minimum pension in relation to a surviving spouse’s
pension or a surviving civil partner’s pension, the amount by reference to
which any increase is calculated for the purposes of article 3(2) must be
reduced in accordance with Article 69 (5ZA)  of the 1975 Order.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 26th March
2024.       (L.S.)   Barry Armstrong   A senior officer of the   Department of
Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  Under section 69 of the Social Security Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order
1975 (c.15)  (increase of official pensions), where the Department for
Communities under section 132(1) of the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c.8) , directs that the sums which are the
additional pensions in long-term benefits are to be increased by a specified
percentage, the Department of Finance shall provide by order for the increase
in the rates of public service pensions. The Pensions (Increase) Act (Northern
Ireland)  1971 (c.35)  defines certain terms and sets out when a pension “
begins ” (the day after the last day of service in respect of which the
pension is payable) and how the increase applies to lump sums.

  The increase to be applied is the same as the percentage (or in some
circumstances a fraction of the percentage) by which the Department for
Communities has, by direction under the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992, increased the sums which are the additional
pensions in long-term benefits, namely the additional pension entitlements
accruing to employees in respect of earnings for service after 5th April 1978.

  For pensions which began before 10th April 2023 the increase is 6.7 per
cent.

  For pensions which began on or after 10th April 2023 the increases
(following the calculation set out in article 3) are as follows:—
Pensions Beginning Percentage Increase   10th April 2023 to 23rd April 2023
6.7% 24th April 2023 to 23rd May 2023 6.14% 24th May 2023 to 23rd June 2023
5.58% 24th June 2023 to 23rd July 2023 5.03% 24th July 2023 to 23rd August
2023 4.47% 24th August 2023 to 23rd September 2023 3.91% 24th September 2023
to 23rd October 2023 3.35% 24th October 2023 to 23rd November 2023 2.79% 24th
November 2023 to 23rd December 2023 2.23% 24th December 2023 to 23rd January
2024 1.68% 24th January 2024 to 23rd February 2024 1.12% 24th February 2024 to
23rd March 2024 0.56%

  Article 3 of the Order provides for increases on certain deferred lump sums
which become payable on or after 10th April 2023 and before 8th April 2024.

  The Order also makes provision for the amount by reference to which any
increase in the rate of an official pension is to be calculated to be reduced
by an amount equal to the rate of any guaranteed minimum pension entitlement
deriving from the employment which gives rise to the official pension.

