Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Administration, Investment, Charges and Governance) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations revoke and re-enact the Occupational Pension Schemes (Administration, Investment, Charges and Governance) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“the Administration Regulations”) which would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of section 51(3)(b) of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (“the 2015 Act”). Like the Administration Regulations, the Regulations make amendments to the requirements relating to the administration and governance of occupational pension schemes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/79

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Administration, Investment, Charges and Governance) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under section 51(3) and (4)(e) of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland)
2015 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months from the
date of their coming into operation

Pensions

Made 26th March 2024

Coming into operation in accordance with regulation 1(1) and (2)

The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 109(6)(b) and (7) and 177(2) to (4) of the
Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993 , Articles 35(4) and (7) and
166(1) to (3) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , and now vested
in it , and sections 42 and 51(6) of, and paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 18
to, the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 .

### Citation, commencement, application and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Administration, Investment, Charges and Governance) (Amendment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2024 and, subject to paragraph (2), shall come into
operation on 30th March 2024.

1.2

Regulation 5(2)(a)(iv) shall come into operation on 5th April 2028.

1.3

Regulations 2(3)(a) and (4) and 4(a) (requirements to report on specified
performance-based fees) apply in relation to the first scheme year of an
occupational pension scheme which ends after 6th April 2023.

1.4

Regulations 2(3)(b) and (5) and 4(b) to (d) (requirements to assess and report
on asset allocation) apply in relation to the first scheme year of an
occupational pension scheme which ends after 1st October 2023.

1.5

Where, before 6th April 2023, the trustees or managers of an occupational
pension scheme have chosen to calculate the charge imposed annually in
accordance with the performance-fee smoothing provision, or the trustees or
managers have chosen to make the performance-fee smoothing assumption, the
amendments in regulation 5(3) to (6) (omission of provisions enabling
smoothing of performance fees) do not apply until the first charges year of
that scheme which ends after the earlier of—

1.5.a

the date which is 5 years after the end of the first charges year in which the
trustees or managers first chose to calculate the charge imposed annually in
accordance with the performance-fee smoothing provision, or first chose to
make the performance-fee smoothing assumption, and

1.5.b

5th April 2028.

1.6

Regulation 3(2) applies in relation to an occupational pension scheme with
effect from the earlier of—

1.6.a

the first date on which the default statement of investment principles
prepared in accordance with regulation 2A of the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (additional requirements in
relation to default arrangement) is revised after 1st October 2023, and

1.6.b

1st October 2024.

1.7

Regulation 3(3) and (4) (amendment of the requirements relating to the
statement of investment principles in the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005) applies in relation to an
occupational pension scheme with effect from the earlier of—

1.7.a

the first date on which the statement of investment principles prepared under
Article 35 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (investment
principles) is revised after 1st October 2023, and

1.7.b

1st October 2024.

1.8

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ the Charges and Governance Regulations ” means the Occupational Pension
Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 ;
“charges year” and “qualifying collective money purchase scheme”  have the
meanings given in regulation 2(1) of the Charges and Governance Regulations; “
the performance-fee smoothing assumption ” means the assumption set out in
regulation 8(3A)  (alternative assessment of charges – default arrangements )
or 8A(4)  (alternative assessment of charges – qualifying collective money
purchase schemes), as applicable, of the Charges and Governance Regulations,
as those assumptions applied immediately before 6th April 2023; “ the
performance-fee smoothing provision ” means the provision in regulation 7(10)
(assessment of charges – default arrangements ) or 7A(10)  (assessment of
charges – qualifying collective money purchase schemes), as applicable, of the
Charges and Governance Regulations, as those provisions applied immediately
before 6th April 2023; “ scheme year ” has the meaning given in regulation
1(2) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1997 .

1.9

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations

2

2.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

2.2

In regulation 1(2) (interpretation) after the definition of “the Solvency 2
Directive”  insert—

“ specified performance-based fees ” has the same meaning as in regulation
2(1)  of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2015;

.

2.3

In regulation 23(1)  (annual statement regarding governance)—

2.3.a

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

2.3.a.aza

state the amount of any specified performance-based fees incurred in relation
to each default arrangement (if any) during the scheme year, calculated in
accordance with regulation 25(1)(a), as a percentage of the average value of
the assets held for the purposes of that default arrangement during the scheme
year;

;

2.3.b

after sub-paragraph (cb)  insert—

2.3.b.cc

state the results of any calculations required by virtue of regulation 25A;

.

2.4

In regulation 25(1)  (assessment of charges and transaction costs)—

2.4.a

in sub-paragraph (a) after head (iii) add—

2.4.a.iv

the specified performance-based fees incurred in respect of assets in the
scheme; and

;

2.4.b

in sub-paragraph (b) after “charges” insert  “, specified performance-based
fees” .

2.5

After regulation 25 insert—

######### Assessment of asset allocation

2.5.25A

2.5.25A.1

The trustees or managers of a relevant scheme to which this provision applies
must, at intervals of no more than one year, calculate the percentage of
relevant scheme assets allocated to each of the asset classes in paragraph
(3).

2.5.25A.2

This provision applies to a relevant scheme unless it is a collective money
purchase scheme which is not a qualifying collective money purchase scheme.

2.5.25A.3

The asset classes are—

2.5.25A.3.a

cash;

2.5.25A.3.b

bonds creating or acknowledging indebtedness, issued by—

2.5.25A.3.b.i

a company;

2.5.25A.3.b.ii

His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom; or

2.5.25A.3.b.iii

the government of any country or territory other than the United Kingdom;

2.5.25A.3.c

shares listed on a recognised stock exchange;

2.5.25A.3.d

shares not listed on a recognised stock exchange;

2.5.25A.3.e

infrastructure comprising of physical structures, facilities, systems or
networks that provide or support essential public services and including
water, gas and electricity networks, roads, telecommunications facilities,
schools, hospitals and prisons;

2.5.25A.3.f

property which does not fall within sub-paragraph (e);

2.5.25A.3.g

instruments creating or acknowledging indebtedness which do not fall within
sub-paragraph (b); and

2.5.25A.3.h

any other assets which do not fall within sub-paragraphs (a) to (g).

2.5.25A.4

In making the calculation required under paragraph (1), the trustees or
managers of the relevant scheme must have regard to any guidance issued by the
Department by virtue of paragraph 2(2)(b) of Schedule 18 to the Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland) 2015 (power to impose requirements relating to
administration or governance).

2.5.25A.5

Where relevant scheme assets are invested in a collective investment scheme,
the trustees or managers of the relevant scheme must refer to the assets held
by the collective investment scheme when making the calculation required by
paragraph (1).

2.5.25A.6

In this regulation—

“ collective investment scheme ” has the same meaning as in regulation 1(2) of
the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2005; “ default arrangement ” has the same meaning as in regulation 25; “
qualifying collective money purchase scheme ” has the meaning given in
regulation 2(1) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015; “ recognised stock exchange ” has the
meaning given by section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007 ; “ relevant scheme
assets ” means— in relation to a relevant scheme which is not a qualifying
collective money purchase scheme, the assets allocated to that scheme’s
default arrangements; and in relation to a qualifying collective money
purchase scheme, the assets held for the purposes of the scheme.

.

### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations

3

3.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2005  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

3.2

In regulation 2A (additional requirements in relation to default arrangement)—

3.2.a

in paragraph (1)—

3.2.a.i

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

3.2.a.i.aa

their policy in relation to investment in illiquid assets;

;

3.2.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (c) after “the aims and objectives mentioned in sub-paragraph
(a)” insert  “, the policy mentioned in sub-paragraph (aa)” ;

3.2.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

3.2.b.1A

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(aa), their policy in relation to investment
in illiquid assets must include—

3.2.b.1A.a

a statement as to whether or not investments held for the purposes of the
default arrangement will include illiquid assets;

3.2.b.1A.b

where those investments will include illiquid assets—

3.2.b.1A.b.i

a description of the age profile of those members in respect of whom
investments will be held in illiquid assets;

3.2.b.1A.b.ii

an explanation of whether investments will be held directly in illiquid
assets, or via a collective investment scheme;

3.2.b.1A.b.iii

an explanation of the types of illiquid assets in which investments will be
held, and

3.2.b.1A.b.iv

an explanation of why the trustees or managers have a policy of investing in
illiquid assets including their assessment of the advantages to members of
investing in illiquid assets, when compared to investments in other classes of
assets;

3.2.b.1A.c

where those investments will not include illiquid assets, an explanation of
why the trustees or managers have a policy of not investing in illiquid
assets, and

3.2.b.1A.d

an explanation of whether the trustees have any plans to invest in illiquid
assets or increase their investment in illiquid assets, in the future.

;

3.2.c

after paragraph (6) insert—

3.2.c.6A

For the purposes of this regulation, “ illiquid assets ” means assets of a
type which cannot easily or quickly be sold or exchanged for cash and, where
assets are invested in a collective investment scheme, includes any such
assets held by the collective investment scheme.

.

3.3

After regulation 2A insert—

######### Additional requirements in relation to qualifying collective money purchase schemes

3.3.2B

3.3.2B.1

The trustees of a qualifying collective money purchase scheme must ensure that
the statement of investment principles prepared under Article 35 covers their
policy in relation to investment in illiquid assets with respect to assets
held for the purposes of the qualifying collective money purchase scheme.

3.3.2B.2

For the purposes of this regulation, their policy in relation to investment in
illiquid assets must include—

3.3.2B.2.a

a statement as to whether or not investments held for the purposes of the
qualifying collective money purchase scheme will include illiquid assets;

3.3.2B.2.b

where those investments will include illiquid assets—

3.3.2B.2.b.i

a description of the age profile of those members in respect of whom
investments will be held in illiquid assets;

3.3.2B.2.b.ii

an explanation of whether investments will be held in respect of the
qualifying collective money purchase scheme directly in illiquid assets, or
via a collective investment scheme;

3.3.2B.2.b.iii

an explanation of the types of illiquid assets in which investments will be
held, and

3.3.2B.2.b.iv

an explanation of why the trustees have a policy of investing in illiquid
assets, including their assessment of the advantages to members of the
qualifying collective money purchase scheme of investing in illiquid assets,
when compared to investments in other classes of assets;

3.3.2B.2.c

where those investments will not include illiquid assets, an explanation of
why the trustees have a policy of not investing in illiquid assets, and

3.3.2B.2.d

an explanation of whether the trustees have any plans to invest in illiquid
assets or increase their investment in illiquid assets for the purposes of the
qualifying collective money purchase scheme, in the future.

3.3.2B.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ illiquid assets ” has the same meaning as in regulation 2A(6A); “ qualifying
collective money purchase scheme ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(1) of
the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2015.

.

3.4

In regulation 6 (disapplication of Article 35 and of regulations 2 and 3 in
respect of certain schemes)—

3.4.a

in the heading after “regulations 2” insert  “, 2B” ;

3.4.b

in paragraph (1) after “regulations 2” insert  “, 2B” .

### Amendment of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations

4

In regulation 29A(2) of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes
(Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  (publishing
charges and transaction costs and other relevant information )—

4.a

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

4.a.aza

paragraph (1)(aza);

;

4.b

in sub-paragraph (c) for “(1)(ca), and” substitute  “(1)(ca);” ;

4.c

in sub-paragraph (d) for “(1)(cb).” substitute  “(1)(cb), and” ;

4.d

after sub-paragraph (d) add—

4.d.e

paragraph (1)(cc).

.

### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations

5

5.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2015  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (6).

5.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

5.2.a

in paragraph (1)—

5.2.a.i

in the definition of “charges” after paragraph (f)  add—

5.2.a.i.g

specified performance-based fees;

;

5.2.a.ii

after the definition of “collective flat fee charge”  insert—

“ collective investment scheme ” has the meaning given in regulation 1(2) of
the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2005 ;

;

5.2.a.iii

after the definition of “flat fee charge” insert—

“ fund manager ” has the meaning given in Article 121(1) of the 1995 Order; “
fund of funds ” means a collective investment scheme which has a policy of
investing in other collective investment schemes;

;

5.2.a.iv

omit the definition of “performance fee” ;

5.2.a.v

after the definition of “single charge structure” insert—

“ specified performance-based fees ” means fees or profit-sharing
arrangements, or any part of fees or profit-sharing arrangements, which are—
payable by or on behalf of the trustees or managers of a pension scheme to a
fund manager in relation to investments (“the managed investments”) managed by
the fund manager, either directly or as part of a collective investment
scheme, for the purposes of the scheme; calculated only by reference to
investment performance, whether in terms of the capital appreciation of the
managed investments, the income produced by the managed investments or
otherwise; only payable when— investment performance exceeds a pre-agreed
rate, which may be fixed or variable, or the value of the managed investments
exceeds a pre-agreed amount; calculated over a pre-agreed period of time, and
subject to pre-agreed terms designed to mitigate the effects of short-term
fluctuations in the investment performance or value of the investments;

;

5.2.b

after paragraph (1A)  insert—

5.2.b.1B

When determining whether or not fees or profit-sharing arrangements, or any
part of fees or profit-sharing arrangements, are specified performance-based
fees for the purposes of these Regulations—

5.2.b.1B.a

a rate, amount, period of time or term is pre-agreed if—

5.2.b.1B.a.i

it has been agreed between the trustees or managers and the fund manager to
whom the fees are payable, before the trustees or managers make the
investments to which the fees relate, or

5.2.b.1B.a.ii

where the trustees or managers have invested in a fund of funds, it is set out
in the investment policy of the fund of funds to which the trustees or
managers agreed when they invested in the fund of funds, and

5.2.b.1B.b

regard must be had to any guidance issued by the Department by virtue of
paragraph 1(2)(b) of Schedule 18 to the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015
(power to restrict charges).

;

5.2.c

omit paragraphs (4A)  and (4B).

5.3

In regulation 7 (assessment of charges – default arrangements ) omit
paragraphs (9) , (10), (11) and (12).

5.4

In regulation 7A  (assessment of charges – qualifying collective money
purchase schemes) omit paragraphs (9), (10), (11) and (12).

5.5

In regulation 8 (alternative assessment of charges – default arrangements )—

5.5.a

in paragraph (2)  omit “and, if the trustees or managers so choose, the
assumption in paragraph (3A)”;

5.5.b

omit paragraph (3A) .

5.6

In regulation 8A  (alternative assessment of charges – qualifying collective
money purchase schemes)—

5.6.a

in paragraph (2) omit “and, if the trustees so choose, the assumption in
paragraph (4)”;

5.6.b

omit paragraph (4).

### Revocation

6

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Administration, Investment, Charges and
Governance) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023  are
revoked.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 26th March
2024 (L.S.) Patrick Rooney A senior officer of the Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations revoke and re-enact the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Administration, Investment, Charges and Governance) (Amendment No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“ the Administration Regulations ”) which
would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of section 51(3)(b) of the
Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (“ the 2015 Act ”). Like the
Administration Regulations, the Regulations make amendments to the
requirements relating to the administration and governance of occupational
pension schemes.

Regulation 1 sets out when the new requirements will apply to schemes.

Regulation 2 amends the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997 to require trustees or managers of
occupational money purchase schemes to report on specified performance-based
fees incurred by the scheme and on the different classes of assets in which
they invest in their annual chair’s statement.

Regulation 3 amends the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2005 to require schemes to include an explanation of their
policy about investing in illiquid assets in their default Statement of
Investment Principles or, in the case of qualifying collective money purchase
schemes, in their Statement of Investment Principles.

Regulation 4 amends the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure
of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 so that the new
disclosures about specified performance-based fees and asset allocation, which
will be required in the annual chair’s statement, are included within the list
of disclosures that must be made publicly available free of charge on a
website.

Regulation 5 amends the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 to exclude specified performance-based
fees from the charge cap that applies to limit the charges that can be passed
on to members of most occupational money purchase pension schemes. It also
removes provisions allowing schemes to smooth or pro-rate the effects of
performance-based fees for the purposes of the charge cap, as these are no
longer required when most performance-based fees will be excluded from the
charge cap.

Regulation 6 revokes the Administration Regulations.

As these Regulations, in so far as they are made under the Pensions (Northern
Ireland) Order 1995 (“ the 1995 Order ”) and the 2015 Act, make in relation to
Northern Ireland only provision corresponding to provision contained in
regulations made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in relation
to Great Britain, the requirement for consultation does not apply by virtue of
Article 117(2)(e) of the 1995 Order and paragraph 8 of Schedule 18 to the 2015
Act.

An assessment of the cost to business of these Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment which accompanied the Occupational Pension
Schemes (Administration, Investment, Charges and Governance) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 ( S.R. 2023 No. 62 ), a copy of which was
laid in the Business Office and the Library of the Northern Ireland Assembly.
Copies of the Assessment are available from the Department for Communities,
Social Security Policy, Legislation and Decision Making Services, Level 8,
Causeway Exchange, 1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the website:
https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information . A copy of the
Assessment is also annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available
alongside this Statutory Rule on the website:
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

