Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-06-28
Description: These Regulations amend the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 (“the Collective Money Purchase Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/136

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under section 102(5) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 for approval of
the Assembly before the expiration of six months from the date of their coming
into operation

    Pensions

  Made   19th June 2024

  Coming into operation in accordance with regulation 1

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 69(4), 71(5)(c), 87(2)(b) and (6)
and 102(2) and (3)(b) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective
Money Purchase Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and,
subject to paragraph (2), shall come into operation on 20th June 2024.

1.2

Regulations 2(b) and 5 shall come into operation on 1st October 2024.

1.3

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations

2

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024  are amended in accordance with—

2.a

regulations 3 and 4;

2.b

regulation 5.

### Amendment of regulation 17

3

3.1

Regulation 17 (calculation of benefits) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (2) to (5).

3.2

In paragraph (4)(e) after “that”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “,
except where there is a multi-annual reduction in effect,” .

3.3

In paragraph (9) for “The trustees” substitute  “Except as provided by
paragraph (10), the trustees” .

3.4

For paragraph (10) substitute—

3.4.10

Where there is one or more multi-annual reduction or reductions in effect and
a subsequent actuarial valuation results in an increase in the rate or amount
of benefits provided under the scheme, the trustees, having obtained the
advice of the scheme actuary, must vary one or more multi-annual reduction or
reductions then in effect, by applying that increase to offset the planned
reduction or reductions under the multi-annual reduction or reductions, which
take effect on or after the benefit adjustment date following that valuation.

.

3.5

After paragraph (10) insert—

3.5.10A

Paragraph (8)(b) does not apply to a multi-annual reduction that has been
varied in accordance with paragraph (10).

3.5.10B

Any offsetting increase pursuant to paragraph (10) must be applied to the
remaining years of the multi-annual reduction or reductions so that the total
reduction applied in any year of the multi-annual reduction or reductions must
not be greater than the total reduction applied in the previous year of the
multi-annual reduction or reductions.

3.5.10C

If an offsetting increase has been applied pursuant to paragraphs (10) and
(10B) so that a multi-annual reduction has been offset in full, such multi-
annual reduction will cease to have effect and, if all multi-annual reductions
cease to have effect, any remaining increase must be applied in accordance
with the scheme rules made pursuant to paragraph (4)(e).

.

### Amendment of regulation 19

4

In regulation 19(4) (actuarial valuations)—

4.a

in sub-paragraph (k) after head (iv) add—

4.a.v

any variation to the multi-annual reduction as a result of applying an
increase to offset the planned reduction under the multi-annual reduction in
accordance with regulation 17(10), including the effect of that offsetting
increase on the planned reduction in the remaining years of the multi-annual
reduction;

;

4.b

after sub-paragraph (k) insert—

4.b.ka

where a multi-annual reduction would have been in effect as at the effective
date but has ceased to have effect in accordance with regulation 17(10C), the
details of—

4.b.ka.i

when such multi-annual reduction ceased to have effect;

4.b.ka.ii

any remaining increase that has been applied in accordance with regulation
17(10C);

.

### Amendment of Schedule 6

5

5.1

Schedule 6 (continuity option 1: transfer out and winding up) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

5.2

In paragraph 1(1) (definitions)—

5.2.a

after the definition of “default discharge option” insert—

      “ dependant ” has the meaning given in paragraph 15 of Schedule 28 to
the Finance Act 2004 ;           “ dependants’ income withdrawal ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 21  of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;
“ dependant’s flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph
22A  of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;

;

5.2.b

after the definition of “member’s flexi-access drawdown fund” insert—

      “ nominee ” has the meaning given in paragraph 27A  of Schedule 28 to
the Finance Act 2004;           “ nominees’ income withdrawal ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 27D of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;
“ nominee’s flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph
27E  of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;

;

5.2.c

after the definition of “quantification” insert—

      “ successor ” has the meaning given in paragraph 27F of Schedule 28 to
the Finance Act 2004;           “ successors’ income withdrawal ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 27J of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;
“ successor’s flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph
27K  of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;

.

5.3

In paragraph 2(1) (alternative ways of discharging the scheme’s liability)—

5.3.a

in head (b) for “etc.).” substitute  “etc);” ;

5.3.b

after head (b) add—

5.3.b.c

transferring the value of those rights to a dependant’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
dependant to dependants’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004;

5.3.b.d

transferring the value of those rights to a nominee’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
nominee to nominees’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member payment
for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004;

5.3.b.e

transferring the value of those rights to a successor’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
successor to successors’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004.

.

5.4

In paragraph 14(2) (beneficiaries’ response to trustees)—

5.4.a

in head (c) for “etc).” substitute  “etc);” ;

5.4.b

after head (c) insert—

5.4.b.ca

transferring the value of those rights to a dependant’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
dependant to dependants’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004;

5.4.b.cb

transferring the value of those rights to a nominee’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
nominee to nominees’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member payment
for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004;

5.4.b.cc

transferring the value of those rights to a successor’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
successor to successors’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004;

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 19th
June 2024       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money
Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 (“ the Collective Money
Purchase Regulations ”).

  Regulation 3 of these Regulations amends regulation 17 of the Collective
Money Purchase Regulations so that increases required in the rate or amount of
benefits under a collective money purchase scheme must be applied to offset
any planned reduction under a multi-annual reduction, or reductions, then in
effect. Further, regulation 17(4)(e) is amended so that scheme rules must
provide that the methodology for applying increases set out in regulation
17(4)(e) does not apply when a multi-annual reduction is in effect.

  Regulation 4 of these Regulations amends regulation 19(4) of the Collective
Money Purchase Regulations to specify additional details that must be
contained in an actuarial valuation prepared in accordance with section 71(1)
of the Pension Schemes Act 2021, as a result of the amendments to regulation
17 of the Collective Money Purchase Regulations.

  Regulation 5 of these Regulations amends paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 6 to
the Collective Money Purchase Regulations to provide for additional types of
fund to which a beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under a collective
money purchase scheme can be transferred during wind-up of the scheme.
Regulation 5 also amends paragraph 14(2) of Schedule 6 to provide for
alternative ways a scheme’s liability to the beneficiary may be discharged.

  An assessment of the cost to business of these Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment which accompanied the Occupational Pension
Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2022 ( S.R. 2022 No. 191 ), a copy of which was laid in the Business Office
and the Library of the Northern Ireland Assembly. Copies of the Assessment are
available from the Department for Communities, Social Security Policy,
Legislation and Decision Making Services, Level 8, Causeway Exchange, 1-7
Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the website: https://www.communities-
ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information . A copy of the Assessment is also
annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available alongside this
Statutory Rule on the website: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

