Title: The Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-10-15
Description: These Regulations are made under powers given to the Welsh Ministers by the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (the “2023 Act”). The 2023 Act forms part of a code of law relating to the historic environment of Wales. These Regulations also form part of that Code.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2024/932

## The Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024

    Historic Environment, Wales

  Made   9 September 2024

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   11 September 2024

  Coming into force   4 November 2024

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
sections 14(3), 209(2) and 211(3)(a) and (4) of the Historic Environment
(Wales) Act 2023 , make the following Regulations.

### Title, coming into force and code

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Applications for Scheduled Monument
Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 4 November 2024.

1.3

These Regulations form part of a code of law relating to the historic
environment of Wales .

### Applying for scheduled monument consent

2

2.1

In addition to the requirements of section 14(2) of the 2023 Act, an
application for scheduled monument consent within the meaning of section 13(1)
or (2) of that Act must—

2.1.a

be on a form published by the Welsh Ministers or a form substantially to the
same effect,

2.1.b

include the matters specified in the form,

2.1.c

include the name and address of the owner of the monument, if the applicant is
not the owner,

2.1.d

include the name and address of the occupier of the monument, if the applicant
is not the occupier, and

2.1.e

be accompanied by plans and drawings that are necessary to—

2.1.e.i

identify the land to which the application relates, and

2.1.e.ii

describe the works that are within section 11(2) of the 2023 Act.

2.2

In this regulation—

      “ the 2023 Act ” (“ Deddf 2023 ”) means the Historic Environment (Wales)
Act 2023;           “ owner ” (“ perchennog ”) means—         an owner of the
freehold estate, or           a tenant under a lease granted or extended for a
fixed term that has at least 7 years left to run.

### Consequential amendments to the Transport and Works Applications (Listed Buildings, Conservation Areas and Ancient Monuments Procedure) Regulations 1992

3

3.1

The Transport and Works Applications (Listed Buildings, Conservation Areas and
Ancient Monuments Procedure) Regulations 1992  are amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 2—

3.2.a

omit the definition of “the 2017 Regulations”;

3.2.b

in the definition of “scheduled monument consent”, after “Act” insert  “in
relation to a monument in England, and has the same meaning as in section 13
of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 in relation to a monument in
Wales” .

3.3

In regulation 4—

3.3.a

at the end of the heading, insert  “in relation to a monument in England” ;

3.3.b

in paragraph (1), after “consent” insert  “in relation to a monument in
England” ;

3.3.c

in paragraph (2)—

3.3.c.i

for “Act,” substitute  “Act and” ;

3.3.c.ii

omit “and the 2017 Regulations”.

3.4

After regulation 4 insert—

######### Modification of procedures for scheduled monument consent in relation to a monument in Wales

3.4.4A

3.4.4A.1

This regulation applies where scheduled monument consent is required in
relation to a monument in Wales for the purposes of proposals included in a
section 6 application and either—

3.4.4A.1.a

the application for scheduled monument consent has been made not later than 10
weeks after the section 6 application; or

3.4.4A.1.b

the Secretary of State considers it appropriate that this regulation should
apply and has given a direction to that effect.

3.4.4A.2

Where this regulation applies, the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 and
the Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024 have
effect with the modifications in Schedule 3.

3.5

In Schedule 2—

3.5.a

in the heading, for “, the Ancient Monuments” to the end, substitute  “and the
Ancient Monuments Regulations” ;

3.5.b

omit paragraph 3.

3.6

After Schedule 2 insert—

  Modifications of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 and the
Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024

Regulation 4A

3.6.1

Section 15 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 applies as if—

3.6.1.a

in the Welsh text, after subsection (1)(a), there were inserted—

3.6.1.a.aa

declarasiwn bod—

3.6.1.a.aa.i

hysbysiad o’r cais cydredol wedi ei roi yn unol â rheolau a wnaed o dan adran
6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992 i’r holl bersonau (ac eithrio’r
ceisydd) a oedd, ar ddechrau cyfnod o 28 o ddiwrnodau a ddaeth i ben â dyddiad
y cais cydredol, yn berchnogion ar yr heneb, a

3.6.1.a.aa.ii

pob hysbysiad o’r fath yn cynnwys datganiad bod cais am gydsyniad heneb
gofrestredig wedi ei wneud, neu i’w wneud, mewn cysylltiad â’r heneb,

;

3.6.1.b

in the English text, after subsection (1)(a) there were inserted—

3.6.1.b.aa

a declaration that—

3.6.1.b.aa.i

notice of the concurrent application has been given in accordance with rules
made under section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992 to all the persons
(other than the applicant) who, at the beginning of a period of 28 days ending
with the date of the concurrent application, were owners of the monument, and

3.6.1.b.aa.ii

every such notice contains a statement that an application for scheduled
monument consent has been, or is to be, made in respect of the monument,

;

3.6.1.c

in the Welsh and English texts, in subsection (1)(c)(i), the reference to
paragraphs (a) or (b) were a reference to paragraphs (a), (aa) or (b);

3.6.1.d

in the Welsh text, for subsection (6) there were substituted—

3.6.1.d.6

Yn yr adran hon ystyr “perchennog” yw—

3.6.1.d.6.a

person sydd, am y tro, â hawl i waredu ffi syml yr heneb (pa un a yw mewn
meddiant neu rifersiwn) ond nad yw’n forgeisai nad yw mewn meddiant, neu

3.6.1.d.6.b

person sy’n dal les neu gytundeb sydd ag o leiaf 3 blynedd yn weddill, neu
berson sydd â hawl i rent ac elw’r tir o dan les neu gytundeb o’r fath.

;

3.6.1.e

in the English text, for subsection (6) there were substituted—

3.6.1.e.6

In this section “ owner ” means—

3.6.1.e.6.a

a person who is, for the time being, entitled to dispose of the fee simple of
the monument (whether in possession or reversion) but who is not a mortgagee
not in possession, or

3.6.1.e.6.b

a person holding, or entitled to the rents and profits of the land under, a
lease or agreement that has at least 3 years to run.

;

3.6.1.f

in the Welsh text, after subsection (6) there were inserted—

3.6.1.f.7

Yn yr adran hon ystyr “cais cydredol” yw cais a wneir o dan adran 6 o Ddeddf
Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992, sy’n ymwneud â chynigion y mae rhoi cydsyniad
heneb gofrestredig yn ofynnol ar eu cyfer mewn cysylltiad â’r heneb.

;

3.6.1.g

in the English text, after subsection (6) there were inserted—

3.6.1.g.7

In this section “ concurrent application ” means an application made under
section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992, relating to proposals for which
the grant of scheduled monument consent is required in respect of the
monument.

3.6.2

The Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024 apply
as if—

3.6.2.a

in regulation 2—

3.6.2.a.i

in the Welsh text, for paragraph (1)(e) there were substituted—

3.6.2.a.i.e

dod gyda’r canlynol—

3.6.2.a.i.e.i

plan sy’n nodi’r heneb y mae’r cais yn ymwneud â hi;

3.6.2.a.i.e.ii

unrhyw blaniau eraill ac unrhyw luniadau eraill sy’n angenrheidiol i
ddisgrifio’r gwaith ac a gaiff gynnwys—

3.6.2.a.i.e.ii.aa

planiau, lluniadau a thrychiadau manwl;

3.6.2.a.i.e.ii.bb

darnau o’r planiau, y lluniadau a’r trychiadau a gyflwynwyd gyda’r cais
cydredol;

3.6.2.a.i.e.ii.cc

pan na fo unrhyw blaniau, unrhyw luniadau nac unrhyw drychiadau wedi eu
llunio, disgrifiad ysgrifenedig clir o’r gwaith, wedi ei ategu gan unrhyw
ddeunyddiau eraill y gall y ceisydd yn rhesymol eu darparu;

3.6.2.a.i.e.iii

datganiad bod y cais wedi ei wneud at ddiben cynigion sydd wedi eu cynnwys yn
y cais cydredol, y mae rhaid iddo roi (pan fônt yn hysbys) ddyddiad a
chyfeirnod y cais cydredol.

;

3.6.2.a.ii

in the English text, for paragraph (1)(e), there were substituted—

3.6.2.a.ii.e

be accompanied by—

3.6.2.a.ii.e.i

a plan identifying the monument to which the application relates;

3.6.2.a.ii.e.ii

such other plans and drawings as are necessary to describe the works and which
may include—

3.6.2.a.ii.e.ii.aa

detailed plans, drawings and sections;

3.6.2.a.ii.e.ii.bb

extracts from the plans, drawings and sections submitted with the concurrent
application;

3.6.2.a.ii.e.ii.cc

where no plans, drawings or sections have been prepared, a clear written
description of the works supported by such other materials as the applicant is
reasonably able to provide;

3.6.2.a.ii.e.iii

a statement that the application is made for the purpose of proposals included
in the concurrent application, which must give (where known) the date and
reference number of the concurrent application.

;

3.6.2.a.iii

in the Welsh text, in paragraph (2) there were inserted in the appropriate
place—

      ystyr “ cais cydredol ” (“ concurrent application ”) yw cais a wneir o
dan adran 6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992, sy’n ymwneud â chynigion
y mae rhoi cydsyniad heneb gofrestredig yn ofynnol ar eu cyfer mewn cysylltiad
â’r heneb;

;

3.6.2.a.iv

in the English text, in paragraph (2) there were inserted in the appropriate
place—

      “ concurrent application ” (“ cais cydredol ”) means an application made
under section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992, relating to proposals for
which the grant of scheduled monument consent is required in respect of the
monument;

;

3.6.2.b

in the Welsh text, after regulation 2 there were inserted—

################ Ffurf datganiad

3.6.2.b.2A

Rhaid i ddatganiad sy’n ofynnol gan adran 15(1)(aa) o Ddeddf yr Amgylchedd
Hanesyddol (Cymru) 2023 fod ar y ffurf a ganlyn—

“Datganiad yn unol ag adran 15(1)(aa) o Ddeddf yr Amgylchedd Hanesyddol
(Cymru) 2023

Mae wedi ei ddatgan—

3.6.2.b.2A.1

bod y ceisydd, yn unol â rheolau a wnaed o dan adran 6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a
Gweithfeydd 1992, wedi cyflwyno’r holl hysbysiadau y mae’n ofynnol eu cyflwyno
i’r personau (ac eithrio’r ceisydd) a oedd yn berchnogion ar yr heneb ar
ddechrau’r cyfnod o 28 o ddiwrnodau a ddaeth i ben â dyddiad cais o dan adran
6;

3.6.2.b.2A.2

bod pob hysbysiad o’r fath yn cynnwys datganiad bod y cais cysylltiedig am
gydsyniad heneb gofrestredig wedi ei wneud mewn cysylltiad â’r heneb.

Llofnod…………………………….

Dyddiad………………………………….”

;

3.6.2.c

in the English text, after regulation 2 there were inserted—

################ Form of declaration

3.6.2.c.2A

A declaration which is required by section 15(1)(aa) of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023 must be in the form—

“Declaration in accordance with section 15(1)(aa) of the Historic Environment
(Wales) Act 2023

It is declared that—

3.6.2.c.2A.1

the applicant has served, in accordance with rules made under section 6 of the
Transport and Works Act 1992, all the notices required to be served upon the
persons (other than the applicant) who were owners of the monument at the
beginning of the period of 28 days ending with the date of an application
under section 6;

3.6.2.c.2A.2

every such notice contains a statement that the accompanying application for
scheduled monument consent has been made in respect of the monument.

Signature…………………………….

Date………………………………….”

.

### Consequential amendments to the Developments of National Significance (Wales) Regulations 2016

4

In paragraph 1(2)(b) of Schedule 2 to the Developments of National
Significance (Wales) Regulations 2016 , for “regulation 3(1) of the Ancient
Monuments (Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent) (Wales) Regulations
2017” substitute  “regulation 2 of the Applications for Scheduled Monument
Consent (Wales) Regulations 2024” .

### Revocation

5

The Ancient Monuments (Applications for Scheduled Monument Consent) (Wales)
Regulations 2017  are revoked.

      Jane Hutt   Cabinet Secretary for Culture, Social Justice, Trefnydd and
Chief Whip, one of the Welsh Ministers     9 September 2024

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under powers given to the Welsh Ministers by the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (the “ 2023 Act ”). The 2023 Act forms
part of a code of law relating to the historic environment of Wales. These
Regulations also form part of that Code.

  The 2023 Act protects monuments of special historic interest. A monument may
comprise a building, structure, work, cave or excavation, or site. The 2023
Act provides that the Welsh Ministers must maintain a record (referred to as a
“ schedule ”) of monuments in Wales that are of national importance.
Particular types of works may only be carried out to a “scheduled monument” if
they are authorised by the Welsh Ministers. This authorisation is called
“scheduled monument consent” and is granted under Part 2 of the 2023 Act.

  The framework for applications for scheduled monument consent is set out in
sections 14 and 15 of the 2023 Act. These Regulations make further provision
about such applications relating to scheduled monuments in Wales.

  Regulation 2 makes further provision about the form and content of an
application for scheduled monument consent, how to make such an application
and the documents that must be included with it.

  Regulation 3 amends the Transport and Works Applications (Listed Buildings,
Conservation Areas and Ancient Monuments Procedure) Regulations 1992 (the “
1992 Regulations ”). The 1992 Regulations align the procedures for making
applications and holding inquiries where an application made under section 6
of the Transport and Works Act 1992 also requires scheduled monument consent.

  Regulation 4 makes consequential amendments to the Developments of National
Significance (Wales) Regulations 2016.

  Regulation 5 revokes the Ancient Monuments (Applications for Scheduled
Monument Consent) (Wales) Regulations 2017.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with these
Regulations.

