Title: The HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024
Date: 2024-10-23
Description: This Order grants development consent for, and authorises the construction, operation and maintenance of a pipeline for the transport of carbon dioxide from Ince, near Stanlow in the County of Cheshire and Chester West to the Point of Ayr Terminal, Talacre, Flintshire. This Order imposes requirements in connection with the development and authorises the compulsory purchase of land (including rights in land) and the right to use land and to override easements and other rights. A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in this Order and certified in accordance with article 44 (certification of plans) may be inspected free of charge at the offices of Liverpool Bay CCS at Eni House, 10 Ebury Bridge Road, London SW1W 8PZ.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/436

## The HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   20th March 2024

  Coming into force   11th April 2024

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”), and in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedures)
Regulations 2009  for an order granting development consent.       The
application was examined by a panel of 2 members appointed by the Secretary of
State (“the Panel”) pursuant to section 61 and 65 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act
and carried out in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and the
Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The Panel
has submitted a report and recommendation to the Secretary of State in
accordance with section 74(2) of the 2008 Act.       The Secretary of State
has considered the report and recommendation of the Panel, has taken into
account the environmental information in accordance with regulation 4 of the
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 ,
and has had regard to the documents and matters referred to in section 105(2)
of the 2008 Act.       In accordance with section 131(5) of the 2008 Act the
Secretary of State is satisfied that where this Order authorises the
compulsory acquisition of land forming part of an open space special category
land that land is less than 200 square metres in extent and the giving in
exchange of other land is unnecessary, whether in the interests of the
persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights or in the
interests of the public.       The Secretary of State is satisfied that open
space within the Order land, when burdened with any new rights authorised for
compulsory acquisition under the terms of this Order, will be no less
advantageous than it was before such acquisition, to the persons whom it is
vested, other persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights,
and the public, and that, accordingly, section 132(3) of the 2008 Act applies.
The Secretary of State, having decided the application, has determined to make
an Order granting development consent for the development described in the
application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State
do not make any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the
application.           The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114, 115, 120, 122, 123, 131 and 132 of the 2008 Act,
makes the following Order:

### Preliminary

#### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 11th April 2024.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this order—

      “ 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;           “ 1965 Act
” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;           “ 1980 Act ” means the
Highways Act 1980 ;           “ 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;           “ 1984 Act ” means the Road
Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ 1990 Act ” means the Town and
Country Planning Act 1990 ;           “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and
Street Works Act 1991 ;           “ 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act
2003 ;           “ 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;           “ the
2016 Regulations ” means the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales)
Regulations 2016  ;           “ access and rights of way plans ” means the
plans certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 44;           “ address ” includes any number or address
used for the purposes of electronic transmission;           “ AGI ” means
above ground installation, being a secure compound above ground level
containing equipment relating to the pipeline which is necessary for its
operation and/or maintenance. The AGIs include PIG facilities, ancillary
infrastructure (including lighting and parking provisions), and electrical and
instrumentation kiosks;           “ ancillary works ” means the ancillary
works described in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary works) and any other works
authorised by this Order which are not development within the meaning of
section 32 of the 2008 Act;           “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in
section 105(1) of the 1991 Act;           “ authorised development ” means the
development described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other
development authorised by this Order that is development within the meaning of
section 32 of the 2008 Act;           “ bank holiday ” means a bank holiday in
England and Wales under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 ;           “ block valve ” means an intermediate underground valve which
can rapidly stem the flow of the carbon dioxide;           “ book of reference
” means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State as the book
of reference for the purposes of the Order under article 44;           “
building ” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building,
structure or erection;           “ business day ” means a day other than a
Saturday or Sunday, Good Friday, Christmas Day or a bank holiday in England
and Wales under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971;
“ BVS ” means block valve station, being a secure compound above ground level
containing equipment relating to the pipeline which is necessary for its
operation and/or maintenance. The BVSs include a block valve, ancillary
infrastructure (including lighting, parking provisions), and above ground
electrical and instrumentation kiosks;           “ carriageway ” has the same
meaning as in the 1980 Act;           “ CEMP ” means the construction
environmental management plan to be prepared and approved under requirement 6
(construction environmental management plan) of Schedule 2 (requirements);
“ chief officer of police ” means the chief officer of police of the police
area in which a power under this Order is sought to be exercised;           “
commence ” means carry out a material operation, as defined in section 155 of
the 2008 Act (when development begins), comprised in or for the purposes of
the authorised development other than site preparation works, remediation
works, environmental (including archaeological) surveys and investigation,
site, utility or soil survey, erection of temporary fencing to site boundaries
or marking out of site boundaries, installation of temporary amphibian and
reptile fencing, the diversion or laying of services or environmental
mitigation measures and any such temporary accesses that may be required in
association with these, and “commencement”, “commenced” and cognate
expressions are to be construed accordingly;           “ crown land plans ”
means the document certified as the crown land plans by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order under article 44;           “ electronic
transmission ” means a communication transmitted—         by means of an
electronic communications network; or           by other means but while in
electronic form;         and in this definition “ electronic communications
network ” has the same meaning as in section 32(1) (meaning of electronic
communications networks and services) of the 2003 Act;           “
environmental statement ” means the document certified by the Secretary of
State as the environmental statement for the purposes of this Order under
article 44;           “ existing pipeline ” means the existing natural gas
pipeline, constructed in accordance with a pipeline construction authorisation
and deemed planning permission issued by the Secretary of State on 16 December
1993 under the Pipelines Act 1962 for “a 24 inch natural gas cross-country
pipeline from Point of Ayr to Connah’s Quay”, which pipeline is to be
repurposed under this Order and along which Work Nos. 51, 53 and 55 are to be
constructed;           “ general arrangement plans ” means the Block Valve
Stations Planning Arrangement, Block Valve Stations Elevations, Above Ground
Installation Planning Arrangement and Above Ground Installation Elevations
certified by the Secretary of State as the general arrangement plans for the
purposes of this Order under article 44;           “ highway ”, “ highway
authority ” and “ local highway authority ” have the same meaning as in the
1980 Act and “ highway ” includes part of a highway;           “ land plans ”
means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 44;           “ limits of deviation ”
means the limits of deviation referred to in article 6 (limits of deviation)
and shown on the works plans;           “ maintain ” includes inspect, assess,
repair, test, cleanse, adjust, landscape, preserve, make safe, divert or alter
the authorised development, and remove, clear, reconstruct, re-new, re-lay,
re-furbish, improve, replace, dismantle, demolish, abandon or decommission any
part of the authorised development, provided these do not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects identified in the
environmental statement, but must not include the renewal, re-laying,
reconstruction or replacement of the entirety of the new pipeline; and any
derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ new
pipeline ” means the pipeline to be constructed and operated as part of the
authorised development forming Work Nos. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36,
38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48 and 50;           “ Order land ” means
the land shown on the land plans which is within the limits of land to be
acquired or used and described in the book of reference under article 44;
“ Order limits ” means the limits shown on the works plans within which the
authorised development may be carried out;           “ outline archaeological
written scheme of investigation ” means the document certified as such by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 44;
“ outline construction environment management plan ” means the document
certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 44;           “ outline construction traffic management plan ”
means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 44;           “ outline landscape and
ecology management plan ” means the document certified as such by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 44;
“ outline operational and maintenance environmental management plan ” means
the document certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order under article 44;           “ outline surface water drainage
strategy report and appendices ” means the document certified as such by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 44;
“ PIG ” means pipeline inspection gauge, a device used for internal
maintenance, cleaning and monitoring of a pipeline;           “ pipeline ”
means the existing pipeline and the new pipeline and includes all of the
authorised development including all AGIs and BVSs;           “ relevant
planning authority ” means in any given provision of this Order (including the
requirements), the local planning authority—         for the area of land to
which the provision relates is situated; and           with the relevant
legislative competence under the 1990 Act for the matter to which that
provision relates;                 “ requirements ” means those matters set
out in Schedule 2 (requirements) to this Order and a reference to a numbered
requirement is a reference to the requirement imposed by the corresponding
numbered paragraph of that Schedule;           “ special category land plans ”
means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 44;           “ statutory undertaker ”
means any person falling within section 127(8) of the 2008 Act and includes a
public communications provider as defined in section 151 of the 2003 Act;
“ street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act ,
together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and
includes part of a street;           “ street authority ”, in relation to a
street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act ;           “
traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in the 1984 Act;           “
trenchless installation techniques ” means the installation of the new
pipeline and/or associated telecommunications cabling by means of boring
techniques including horizontal directional drilling, auger boring and micro-
tunnelling;           “ tribunal ” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper
Tribunal;           “ undertaker ” means Liverpool Bay CCS limited,
incorporated under company number 13194018 and having its registered office at
Eni House, 10 Ebury Bridge Road, London SW1W 8PZ; and           “ works plans
” means the plan or plans certified as such by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 44.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions, areas and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development).

2.7

References to any statutory body includes that body’s successor bodies from
time to time that have jurisdiction over the authorised development.

2.8

In this Order, the expression “ includes ” is to be construed without
limitation.

### Principal Powers

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements the undertaker
is granted—

3.1.a

development consent for the authorised development; and

3.1.b

consent for the ancillary works,

to be carried out within the Order limits.

#### Operation and use of the authorised development

4

4.1

The undertaker may at any time operate and use the authorised development and
the existing pipeline except to the extent that this Order or an agreement
made under this Order provides otherwise.

4.2

Subject to the provisions of this Order the undertaker is granted consent to
use the existing pipeline for the conveyance of carbon dioxide.

4.3

The consent granted under paragraphs (1) and (2) does not relieve the
undertaker from compliance with any obligation under the Pipeline Safety
Regulations 1996 .

#### Power to maintain the authorised development

5

5.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order or an agreement made under this Order provides
otherwise.

5.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise diversion of the authorised development—

5.2.a

outside the limits of deviation; or

5.2.b

which would result in the authorised development varying from the description
in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development).

#### Limits of deviation

6

6.1

In carrying out or maintaining the authorised development, the undertaker may—

6.1.a

deviate the works laterally within the extent of the limits of deviation for
those works shown on the works plans;

6.1.b

deviate the pipeline works vertically upwards to a limit of not less than 1.2
metres below the surface of the ground (except where ground conditions make
compliance with this upwards limit impracticable in which case the upwards
limit is 0.452 metres below the surface of the ground);

6.1.c

in respect of those sections of the pipeline works which may be constructed
and installed using trenchless installation techniques, deviate the pipeline
works vertically downwards to such extent as may be found necessary or
convenient subject to a maximum depth of 35m;

6.1.d

deviate works other than the pipeline vertically—

6.1.d.i

upwards or above ground level to the height limits set for those works in
Schedule 2 (requirements); and

6.1.d.ii

downwards to any extent as may be found necessary or convenient.

6.2

The maximum limits of vertical deviation specified in paragraph (1)(b) do not
apply within Work No 43E.

6.3

The maximum limits of vertical deviation specified in paragraphs (1)(b), (c)
and (d) do not apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to the
Secretary of State’s satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority, certifies accordingly that
a deviation in excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects to those identified in the
environmental statement.

#### Benefit of the Order

7

7.1

Subject to this article, the provisions of this Order have effect solely for
the benefit of the undertaker.

7.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

7.2.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; and

7.2.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

7.3

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with any transfer or grant
under paragraph (2) references in the Order to the undertaker, except in
paragraph (4), includes references to the transferee or lessee.

7.4

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (2) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

7.5

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)—

7.5.a

the benefit (“the transferred benefit”) includes any rights that are
conferred, and any obligations that are imposed by virtue of the provisions to
which the benefit relates;

7.5.b

the transferred benefit resides exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit is not enforceable against
the undertaker save in the case of any breach of an obligation by the
undertaker which occurs prior to such transfer or grant or which occurs as a
result of any activity carried out by the undertaker on behalf of the
transferee or lessee.

7.6

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the works for which the consent is granted by
this Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land, statutory
undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised development.

#### Application and modification of legislative provisions

8

8.1

The following enactments do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation for the purpose of or in connection
with, the construction of the authorised development or any maintenance of any
part of the authorised development—

8.1.a

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraphs 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (byelaw making powers of the authority)
to the Water Resources Act 1991 ;

8.1.b

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66 (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ;

8.1.c

sections 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) and 30
(authorisation of drainage works in connection with a ditch) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ; and

8.1.d

the provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  in so far as they
relate to the temporary possession of land under articles 34 (temporary use of
land for carrying out the authorised development) and 35 (temporary use of
land for maintaining the authorised development).

8.2

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 208 of the 2008 Act, for the
purposes of regulation 6 of the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations
2010(b) any building comprised in the authorised development must be deemed to
be—

8.2.a

a building into which people do not normally go; or

8.2.b

a building into which people go only intermittently for the purpose of
inspecting or maintaining fixed plant or machinery.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

9

9.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental
Protection Act 1990(a) (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by statutory
nuisance) in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraphs (g) (noise
emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) and
(ga) (noise that is prejudicial to health or nuisance and is emitted from or
caused by a vehicle, machinery or equipment in a street or in Scotland, road;)
of section 79(1) of that Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be
imposed, under section 82(2) of that Act if the defendant shows that the
nuisance—

9.1.a

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction site), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ;
or

9.1.b

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the use of the authorised development and that the nuisance is
attributable to the use of the authorised development in accordance with the
controls and measures relating to noise as described in the construction
environment management plan approved under Schedule 2 (Requirements) or in
accordance with the noise levels set out in an environmental permit relating
to the operation of the development;

9.1.c

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

9.1.d

is a consequence of complying with a requirement of this Order and that it
cannot reasonably be avoided; or

9.1.e

is a consequence of the use of the authorised development and that it cannot
be reasonably avoided.

9.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) above, compliance with the controls and
measures relating to noise described in the CEMP will be sufficient, but not
necessary, to show that an alleged nuisance could not reasonably be avoided.

9.3

Where a relevant planning authority is acting in accordance with section 60(4)
and section 61(4) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 in relation to the
construction of the authorised development then the local authority must also
have regard to the controls and measures relating to noise referred to in the
CEMP approved under Schedule 2 (Requirements).

9.4

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that
it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

9.5

In this article “ premises ” has the same meaning as in section 79 of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990 .

### Streets

#### Street works

10

10.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets specified in Part 1 (streets subject to
permanent street works) and Part 2 (streets subject to temporary street works)
of Schedule 3 as is within the Order limits and may without the consent of the
street authority—

10.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

10.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street or carry out works to strengthen or repair the
carriageway;

10.1.c

remove or use all earth and materials in or under the street;

10.1.d

place apparatus under the street;

10.1.e

maintain, alter or renew apparatus under the street or change its position;

10.1.f

demolish, remove, replace and relocate any street furniture within the street;

10.1.g

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines;

10.1.h

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

10.1.i

carry out re-lining and placement of road markings;

10.1.j

remove and install temporary and permanent signage; and

10.1.k

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (j).

10.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

10.3

Without limiting the scope of the powers conferred by paragraph (1) but
subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development, or for purposes ancillary to it, enter on so much of
any other street whether or not within the Order limits, for the purposes of
carrying out the works set out in paragraph (1).

10.4

The powers conferred by paragraph (3) must not be exercised without the
consent of the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any
consent, but such consent is not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

10.5

If a street authority that receives an application for consent under paragraph
(4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 42 days beginning
with the date on which the application was received by that street authority,
that authority will be deemed to have granted consent.

10.6

In this article “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991
Act save that “ apparatus ” includes pipelines, fibre optic or other
telecommunication cables, aerial markers, cathodic protection test posts,
field boundary markers, monitoring kiosks, and electricity cabinets.

#### Power to alter layout, etc. of streets

11

11.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of carrying out the authorised development
temporarily alter the layout of, or carry out any works in, a street specified
in column (2) of Part 2 of Schedule 3 (streets subject to temporary street
works) in the manner specified in relation to that street in column (3).

11.2

Without limitation on the specific powers conferred by paragraph (1), but
subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing
and maintaining the authorised development, permanently or temporarily alter
the layout of any street (and carry out works ancillary to such alterations)
whether or not within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a
junction with such a street and, without limiting the scope of this paragraph,
the undertaker may—

11.2.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any footpath, footway, cycle track, central reservation or verge within the
street;

11.2.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such street, footpath, footway,
cycle track, central reservation or verge;

11.2.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street;

11.2.d

execute any works to widen or alter the alignment of pavements;

11.2.e

make and maintain crossovers and passing places;

11.2.f

execute any works of surfacing or resurfacing of the highway;

11.2.g

carry out works for the provision or alteration of parking places, loading
bays and cycle tracks;

11.2.h

execute any works necessary to alter or provide facilities for the management
and protection of pedestrians;

11.2.i

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines required by the highway
authority;

11.2.j

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

11.2.k

carry out re-lining and placement of new temporary markings; and

11.2.l

remove and replace kerbs and flume ditches for the purposes of creating
permanent and temporary accesses.

11.3

The undertaker must restore to the reasonable satisfaction of the street
authority any street that has been temporarily altered under this article.

11.4

The powers conferred by paragraph (2) must not be exercised without the
consent of the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any
consent, but such consent is not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

11.5

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 42 days beginning with the date on which the application was
received by that street authority, it is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Application of the 1991 Act

12

12.1

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (2) that apply in
relation to the carrying out of street works under that Act and any
regulations made or code of practice issued or approved under those provisions
apply (with all necessary modifications) in relation to—

12.1.a

the carrying out of works under articles 10 (street works) and 11 (power to
alter layout etc. of streets);

12.1.b

the temporary restriction, temporary alteration or temporary diversion of a
public right of way by the undertaker under article 13 (temporary restriction
of public rights of way); and

12.1.c

the temporary restriction, temporary alteration or temporary diversion of a
street by the undertaker under article 15 (temporary restriction of use of
streets);

whether or not the carrying out of the works or the stopping up, alteration or
diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

12.2

The provisions of the 1991 Act  are—

12.2.a

subject to paragraph (3), section 55 (notice of starting date of works);

12.2.b

section 57 (notice of emergency works);

12.2.c

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

12.2.d

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

12.2.e

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

12.2.f

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation);

12.2.g

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route); and

12.2.h

all provisions of that Act that apply for the purposes of the provisions
referred to in subparagraphs (a) to (g).

12.3

Section 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (2) has effect as if
references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works included a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

12.4

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

12.4.a

section 56 (power to give directions as to timing of street works);

12.4.b

section 56A (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);

12.4.c

section 58 (restriction on works following substantial road works);

12.4.d

section 58A (restriction on works following substantial street works); and

12.4.e

schedule 3A (restriction on works following substantial street works).

#### Temporary restriction of public rights of way

13

13.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, temporarily restrict, prevent use of or close each of the public
rights of way specified in column (2) of Part 1 of Schedule 6 (public rights
of way to be temporarily restricted) to the extent specified in column (3), by
reference to the numbered points shown on the access and rights of way plans.

13.2

The public rights of way specified in Part 1 of Schedule 6 (public rights of
way to be temporarily restricted) must not be temporarily closed under this
article unless an alternative public right of way is first provided by the
undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of the relevant local highway
authority.

13.3

The relevant diversion route provided under paragraph (2) will be subsequently
maintained by the undertaker until the re-opening of the relevant public right
of way specified in paragraph (1).

13.4

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation)
of the 1961 Act.

13.5

If a street authority which receives an application for confirmation that an
alternative public right of way is satisfactory under paragraph (2) fails to
notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of the period of 42 days
beginning with the date on which the application was received by that street
authority, it is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Stopping up of public rights of way

14

14.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of public
rights of way specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 2 of Schedule 6 (public
rights of way to be stopped up) to the extent specified in column (3).

14.2

No public right of way may be stopped up under this article until a temporary
alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have used the
public right of way has been provided and subsequently maintained by the
undertaker until a permanent alternative has been provided and open to public
use, which temporary alternative route must be provided to the reasonable
satisfaction of the local highway authority, between the points specified in
column (4) of Part 2 of schedule 6.

14.3

No later than 3 months from the completion of the authorised development, the
undertaker must provide a permanent alternative route for any route stopped up
under this article, which permanent alternative route must be provided between
the points specified in column (4) of Part 2 of schedule 6 to the reasonable
satisfaction of the local highway authority.

#### Temporary restriction of use of streets

15

15.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily close, alter or divert any street and may for any
reasonable time—

15.1.a

divert the traffic or a class of traffic from the street; and

15.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

15.2

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any street temporarily
closed under the powers conferred by this article within the Order limits as a
temporary working site.

15.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary closure, alteration or
diversion of a street under this article if there would otherwise be no such
access.

15.4

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may temporarily close, alter or
divert the streets set out in column (2) of Schedule 5 (streets to be
temporarily closed or restricted) to the extent specified, by reference to the
letters and numbers shown on the access and rights of way plans, in column (3)
of that Schedule.

15.5

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, alter, divert or use as a
temporary working site, any street other than those referred to in Schedules 5
(streets to be temporarily stopped up or restricted); and 6 (public rights of
way to be temporarily restricted) without the consent of the street authority,
which may attach reasonable conditions to the consent but such consent is not
to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

15.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation)
of the 1961 Act.

15.7

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (5) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 42 days beginning with the date on which the application was
received by that street authority, it is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Access to works

16

16.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development, form and lay out means of access, or improve existing
means of access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker
reasonably requires for the purposes of the authorised development.

16.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the power set out in paragraph (1) may not be
exercised without the undertaker having first obtained the consent of the
street authority which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent, but
such consent is not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, following
consultation by the street authority with the relevant planning authority. If
the street authority which has received an application for consent under this
paragraph fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of the
42 day period beginning with the date on which the application was received by
that street authority, it is deemed to have granted consent.

16.3

The consent of the street authority is not required for the formulation,
laying out or improvement of a new or existing means of access as described in
Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development) and Schedule 4 (new means of
access).

#### Agreements with street authorities

17

17.1

A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect
to—

17.1.a

the construction of any new street including any structure carrying the street
over or under any part of the authorised development;

17.1.b

the strengthening, improvement, repair or reconstruction of any street under
the powers conferred by this Order;

17.1.c

any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by this Order;
or

17.1.d

the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 10
(street works).

17.2

Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)—

17.2.a

make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this
Order which relates to the street in question;

17.2.b

include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a
reasonable time for completion of the works; and

17.2.c

contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider
appropriate.

#### Use of private roads

18

18.1

Subject to paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any private
road within the Order limits for the passage of persons or vehicles (with or
without materials, plant and machinery) for the purposes of, or in connection
with, the construction and maintenance of the authorised development.

18.2

The undertaker must compensate the person liable for the repair of a road to
which paragraph (1) applies for any loss or damage which that person may
suffer by reason of the exercise of the power conferred by paragraph (1).

18.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of such compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

18.4

The undertaker may only use a private road under paragraph (1) for such time
as the power to take temporary possession of the land upon which it is located
under either article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development) and article 35 (temporary use of land for maintaining the
authorised development) is capable of being exercised under those articles in
relation to that land.

#### Traffic regulation

19

19.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which may attach
reasonable conditions to any consent but which consent must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed, the undertaker may at any time, for the
purposes of, or in connection with, the construction of the authorised
development—

19.1.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

19.1.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

19.1.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

19.1.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

19.1.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

19.2

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph (3).

19.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (1) unless
it has—

19.3.a

given not less than 42 days’ notice in writing of its intention so to do to
the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

19.3.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 7 days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention as provided for in sub-paragraph (a).

19.4

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (1)—

19.4.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

19.4.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

19.4.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces) of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

19.4.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act
2004 .

19.5

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers of paragraph (1) within a period of 24 months from the
commencement of operation of the authorised development.

19.6

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
consult such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take
into consideration any representations made to it by any such person.

19.7

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

19.8

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
42 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (1) the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

19.9

The power conferred by paragraph (1) may be exercised at any time prior to the
expiry of 12 months from the commencement of operation of the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (5) any prohibition, restriction or other
provision made under paragraph (1) may have effect both before and after the
expiry of that period.

### Supplemental powers

#### Discharge of water

20

20.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for that purpose
may inspect, lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

20.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) is determined as if it
were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers) of
the Water Industry Act 1991 .

20.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

20.4

The undertaker must not carry out any works to any public sewer or drain
pursuant to paragraph (1) except—

20.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

20.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

20.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of, or construct any works
within any watercourse forming part of a main river, or within 16 metres of a
tidally influenced main river without the prior written consent of the
Environment Agency or Natural Resources Wales as appropriate.

20.6

The undertaker must, unless otherwise authorised under the provisions of this
Order or any environmental permit relating to the discharge of water in
connection with the authorised development, take such steps as are reasonably
practicable to secure that any water discharged into a watercourse or public
sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as free as may be practicable from
gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

20.7

This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter
whose entry or discharge into controlled waters is prohibited by regulation 12
(requirement for environmental permit) of the 2016 Regulations.

20.8

In this article—

20.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to a sewerage
undertaker, the Environment Agency, Natural Resources Wales, an internal
drainage board or a local authority; and

20.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
2016 Regulations have the same meaning as in those Regulations.

20.9

If a person who receives an application for consent or approval fails to
notify the undertaker of a decision within 42 days of receiving an application
for consent under paragraph (3) or approval under paragraph (4)(a) that person
is deemed to have granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

21

21.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or
otherwise, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
person responsible.

21.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

22

22.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

22.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

22.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes or
pits in such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate
the nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

22.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out
environmental, utility or archaeological investigations on such land; and

22.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

22.2

The power conferred by sub-paragraph (1)(c) includes without prejudice to the
generality of that sub-paragraph the power to take, and process, samples of or
from any of the following found on, in or over the land—

22.2.a

water;

22.2.b

air;

22.2.c

soil or rock;

22.2.d

its flora;

22.2.e

bodily excretions, or dead bodies, of non-human creatures; or

22.2.f

any non-living thing present as a result of human action.

22.3

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

22.4

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

22.4.a

must, if so required before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

22.4.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes or pits.

22.5

No trial holes or pits are to be made under this article—

22.5.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

22.5.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

which authority may attach reasonable conditions to any consent, but such
consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

22.6

As soon as reasonably practicable following the completion of any activities
carried out under paragraph (1), the undertaker must remove any apparatus and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

22.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, as if it were a dispute
under Part 1 (determination of question of disputed compensation) of the 1961
Act.

22.8

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent under paragraph (5) fails to notify the undertaker of
its decision within 42 days of receiving the application for consent, that
authority is deemed to have granted consent.

22.9

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

#### Protective work to buildings

23

23.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the
Order limits as the undertaker considers necessary or expedient.

23.2

Protective works may be carried out—

23.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

23.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development first
becomes operational.

23.3

For the purpose of determining how the powers under this article are to be
exercised, the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage, and place on, leave on and
remove from the building any apparatus and equipment for use in connected with
the survey.

23.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works to a building under this
article, the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

23.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

23.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land that is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

23.5

Before exercising—

23.5.a

a power under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

23.5.b

a power under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

23.5.c

a power under sub-paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

23.5.d

a power under sub-paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise the power and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a), (c) or (d), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

23.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question of whether it is necessary or expedient to carry
out the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 47 (arbitration).

23.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which powers under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of the powers.

23.8

Where—

23.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

23.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building first
becomes operational it appears that the protective works are inadequate to
protect the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that
part of the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

23.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

23.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) must be determined as if
it were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

23.11

Section 1 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto, or possession of land under this article to the
same extent as it applies in respect of the compulsory acquisition of land
under this Order by virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act.

23.12

In this article “ protective works ”, in relation to a building, means—

23.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage that may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

23.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage that has been caused to
the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

### Powers of Acquisition

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required to carry out or to facilitate, or is incidental to, the authorised
development.

24.2

This article is subject to article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily), article 26(2) (compulsory acquisition of rights
and restrictive covenants) and article 34(8) (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development).

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

25

25.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

25.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (compulsory purchase under
Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965 Act; and

25.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act  as applied by article 30 (application of the 1981 Act).

25.2

The authority conferred by article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was
entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants

26

26.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may acquire such
rights over the Order land or impose restrictive covenants affecting the land
as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under
article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as
acquiring rights already in existence.

26.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, articles 29 (private rights) and 36
(statutory undertakers) in the case of the Order land specified in column (1)
of Schedule 8 (land in which only new rights etc., may be acquired) the
undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition
of new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants under
paragraph (1) as may be required for the purpose specified in relation to that
land in column (2) of that Schedule.

26.3

Subject to section 8 (other provisions as to divided land) of the 1965 Act,
and Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 4(8) of Schedule 9
(modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights) to the 1965 Act), where the undertaker acquires a right over
land or the benefit of a restrictive covenant, the undertaker is not required
to acquire a greater interest in that land.

26.4

Schedule 9 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for creation of new rights) has effect for the purpose of modifying the
enactments relating to compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in
their application in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article
of a right over land by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant.

26.5

In any case where the acquisition of new rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is required for the purpose of
diverting, replacing or protecting apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the
undertaker may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power
to acquire such rights to the statutory undertaker in question.

26.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were exercised
by the undertaker.

#### Statutory authority to override easements and other rights

27

27.1

The carrying out or use of the authorised development and the doing of
anything else authorised by this Order is authorised for the purpose specified
in section 158(2) of the 2008 Act (nuisance: statutory authority), despite it
involving—

27.1.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

27.1.b

a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract.

27.2

The undertaker must pay compensation to any person whose land is injuriously
affected by—

27.2.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

27.2.b

a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract,
caused by the carrying out or use of the authorised development and the
operation of section 158 of the 2008 Act.

27.3

The interests and rights to which this article applies are any easement,
liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting
other land, including any natural right to support.

27.4

Subsection (2) of section 10 of the 1965 Act (further provision as to
compensation for injurious affection) applies to paragraph (2) by virtue of
section 152(5) of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance).

27.5

Any rule or principle applied to the construction of section 10 of the 1965
Act must be applied to the construction of paragraph (2) with any necessary
modifications.

#### Compulsory acquisition of land: minerals

28

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated in this Order, subject to the following modifications—

28.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

28.b

for “acquiring authority” substitute  “undertaker” ;

28.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” ; and

28.d

for “compulsory purchase order” substitute  “this Order” .

#### Private rights

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to compulsory acquisition under article 24
(compulsory acquisition of land) cease to have effect in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the powers under
article 24—

29.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

29.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act

whichever is the earlier.

29.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the
imposition of restrictive covenants under article 26 (compulsory acquisition
of rights and restrictive covenants) cease to have effect in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or compliance
with the restrictive covenant—

29.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker (whether the right is acquired
compulsorily, by agreement or through the grant of lease of the land by
agreement); or

29.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act in pursuance of the right,

whichever is the earlier.

29.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under
this Order are suspended and unenforceable, in so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the purpose for which temporary possession is
taken, for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land.

29.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restrictive covenant under this article is entitled to compensation
in accordance with the terms of section 152 (compensation in case where no
right to claim in nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

29.5

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 36 (statutory undertakers) applies.

29.6

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect subject to—

29.6.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

29.6.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights or
the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

29.6.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of the land;

29.6.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto the land; or

29.6.a.iv

the undertaker taking temporary possession of the land,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; or

29.6.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

29.7

If an agreement referred to in sub-paragraph (6)(b)—

29.7.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

29.7.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

the agreement is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title,
whether the title was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

29.8

Reference in this article to private rights over land includes reference to
any trusts or incidents to which the land is subject.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

30

30.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

30.2

The 1981 Act, as applied, has effect with the following modifications.

30.3

In section 1 (application of Act) for subsection (2) substitute—

30.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

30.4

Omit section 5  (earliest date for execution of declaration).

30.5

Omit section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration).

30.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)—

30.6.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the
Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent)” ; and

30.6.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 5A” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024” .

30.7

In section 6 (notices after execution of declaration) in subsection (1)(b) for
“section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land Act
1981” substitute  “section 134 of the Planning Act 2008” .

30.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat) in subsection (1)(a) omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

30.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

30.9.1

But see article 31(4) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the HyNet
Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024, which excludes the acquisition of subsoil
or airspace only from this Schedule.

30.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be constructed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act and as modified by article 32
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) to the compulsory acquisition of the
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

31

31.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil or airspace of the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 24
(compulsory acquisition of land) and paragraph (1) of article 26 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants) as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of
acquiring the whole of the land.

31.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in the subsoil or
airspace of land under paragraph (1), the undertaker is not to be required to
acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

31.3

Paragraph (2) does not prevent Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase
of land not in notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 32 or
paragraph 4(8) of Schedule 9 as the case may be) from applying where the
undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in a cellar, vault, arch or other
construction forming part of a house, building or manufactory.

31.4

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

31.4.a

Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 32 (modification of Part 1
of the 1965 Act);

31.4.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

31.4.c

section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

32

32.1

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

32.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
(application to High Court in respect of compulsory purchase order) of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981, the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the 2008 Act, the 5 year period mentioned in
article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily)
of the HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024” .

32.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

32.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ; and

32.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

32.4

In section 22(2) (interests omitted from purchase), for “section 4 of this
Act” substitute  “article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire
land compulsorily) of the HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024” .

32.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

32.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

32.5.a.2

But see article 31(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the HyNet
Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil
or airspace only from this Schedule

; and

32.5.b

at the end insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

32.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 23 (protective work to buildings), article
34 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or
article 35 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development)
of the HyNet Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024

.

#### Rights under or over streets

33

33.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of or air-
space over any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or air-space
for those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised
development.

33.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

33.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to

33.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

33.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

33.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of
that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined as if it were a dispute under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

33.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of the
1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to be
borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

34

34.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

34.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

34.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 1 of Schedule 7 (land of
which only temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in
relation to that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of
the authorised development specified in column (4) of that Schedule;

34.1.a.ii

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 2 Schedule 7 (land of which
only temporary possession for access may be taken) for the purposes of taking
access to and from the authorised development only; and

34.1.a.iii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

34.1.b

remove any buildings, agricultural plant and apparatus, drainage, fences,
debris and vegetation from that land;

34.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access),
structures and buildings on that land;

34.1.d

use the land for the purposes of a working site with access to the working
site in connection with the authorised development;

34.1.e

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land in column (4)
of Part 1 of Schedule 7 (land of which only temporary possession may be
taken), or any other mitigation works in connection with the authorised
development;

34.1.f

construct any works, or use the land, as specified in relation to that land in
column 3 of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 7, or any mitigation works;

34.1.g

construct such works on that land referred to in sub-paragraph (a) as are
mentioned in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development); and

34.1.h

carry out mitigation works required pursuant to the requirements in Schedule
2.

34.2

Not less than 3 months before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph (1)(a)(iii).

34.3

The undertaker must not, remain in possession of the land under this article
for longer than is reasonably necessary and in any event, without the
agreement of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under
this article—

34.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) and (ii), after the end
of the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of
the authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 7 (land of which only temporary possession may be
taken); or

34.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(iii), after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by
the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

34.4

Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or otherwise
acquired the land or rights over land subject to temporary possession, before
giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken
under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and restore
the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the
undertaker is not required to—

34.4.a

replace a building, or structure removed under this article;

34.4.b

remove any drainage works installed by the undertaker under this article;

34.4.c

remove any new road surface or other improvements carried out under this
article to any street specified in Schedule 3 (streets subject to streets
works)

34.4.d

restore the land on which any permanent works (including ground strengthening
works) have been constructed under paragraph (1); or

34.4.e

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development.

34.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

34.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

34.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

34.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph (1)(a)(i) and (ii) except that the undertaker is not to be
precluded from acquiring new rights over any part of that land under article
26 (compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants).

34.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

34.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

34.11

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under article 24
(compulsory acquisition of land) or article 26 (compulsory acquisition of
rights and restrictive covenants).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

35

35.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

35.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order land if
such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development; and

35.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

35.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

35.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

35.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

35.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

35.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

35.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

35.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

35.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

35.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

35.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

35.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

35.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ” means—

35.11.a

the period referred to in requirement 12(4) in relation to the maintenance of
landscaping;

35.11.b

in relation to any other part of the authorised development, means the period
of 5 years beginning on which that part of the authorised development is
brought into operational use.

35.12

The undertaker is not required to serve notice under paragraph (3) where the
undertaker has identified a potential risk to the safety of—

35.12.a

the authorised development or any of its parts;

35.12.b

the public; or

35.12.c

the surrounding environment,

and in such circumstances, the undertaker may enter the land under paragraph
(1) subject to giving such period of notice as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

#### Statutory undertakers

36

36.1

Subject to the provisions of article 42 (protective provisions) and Schedule
10 (protective provisions), the undertaker may acquire compulsorily, or
acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants over, the land belonging to
statutory undertakers shown on the land plans within the Order land and
described in the book of reference.

36.2

Subject to the provisions of article 42 (protective provisions) and Schedule
10 (protective provisions), the undertaker may extinguish the rights of,
remove, relocate the rights of or reposition the apparatus belonging to
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

37

37.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 36 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

37.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 36 (statutory undertakers), any
person who is—

37.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

37.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

37.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act applies.

37.4

In this paragraph—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the 2003 Act ; and           “ public utility undertaker ” means a
gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

### Miscellaneous and general

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

38

38.1

This article applies to any agreement entered into by the undertaker under
article 7 (benefit of the Order) so far as it relates to the terms on which
any land is subject to a lease granted by or under that agreement.

38.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

38.3

No enactment or rule of law to which paragraph (2) applies is to apply in
relation to the rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by
or under any such agreement so as to—

38.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

38.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

38.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

39

39.1

Subject to paragraph (3) and article 40 (trees subject to tree preservation
orders) the undertaker may fell, lop or prune any tree or shrub, or cut back
its roots, within or overhanging land within the Order limits if it reasonably
believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

39.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

39.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

39.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must–

39.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub; and

39.2.b

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity.

39.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

39.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2), remove any hedgerow within the Order
limits including those specified in Schedule 11.

In this article “ hedgerow ” has the same meaning as in the Hedgerows
Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to Tree Preservation Orders

40

40.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may fell, lop or prune any part of
any tree which is within, over or under land within the Order limits or cut
back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary in order to
prevent the tree—

40.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

40.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

40.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

40.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any damage arising from such activity; and

40.2.b

the duty in section 206(1) of the 1990 Act (replacement of trees) must not
apply.

40.3

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

40.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

40.5

In this article “ tree preservation order ” has the same meaning as in section
198 (power to make tree preservation orders) of the 1990 Act.

#### Crown rights

41

41.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker or any lessee or licensee to take, use,
enter upon or in any manner interfere with any land or rights of any
description (including any portion of the shore or bed of the sea or any
river, channel, creek, bay or estuary)—

41.1.a

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

41.1.b

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

41.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for His Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

41.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order for
the compulsory acquisition of an interest in any Crown land (as defined in the
2008 Act) which is for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of
the Crown.

41.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Protective provisions

42

Schedule 10 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act

43

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as not being operational land) of the 1990 Act.

#### Certification of plans, etc.

44

44.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of—

44.1.a

the access and rights of way plans (consisting of a key plan and sheets 1 to
37 inclusive) (document number D.2.5)

44.1.b

the land plans (consisting of a key plan and sheets 1 to 37 inclusive)
(document number D.2.2);

44.1.c

the crown land plans (consisting of a key plan and 8 sheets) (document number
D.2.3);

44.1.d

the special category land plans (consisting of a key plan and 10 sheets)
(document number D.2.6);

44.1.e

the works plans (consisting of a key plan and sheets 1 to 37 inclusive)
(document number D.2.4);

44.1.f

the general arrangement plans comprising the Block Valve Stations Planning
Arrangement, (document number D 2.9); Block Valve Stations Elevations
(document number D.2.8); Above Ground Installation Planning Arrangement
(document number D.2.12), and Above Ground Installation Elevations (document
number D.2.11);

44.1.g

the book of reference (document number D.4.3);

44.1.h

the environmental statement (consisting of 4 volumes) (document numbers D.6.1
to D.6.4.19.1);

44.1.i

the outline construction environment management plan (document number
D.6.5.2);

44.1.j

the outline landscape and ecology mitigation plan (document number D.6.5.10)
(Annex D.6.5.10.1 Environmental Report – Appendix A – Landscape and Ecological
Mitigation Plan);

44.1.k

the outline construction traffic management plan (document number D.6.5.3);

44.1.l

the outline surface water drainage strategy report and appendices (document
number D.6.5.13);

44.1.m

the outline archaeological written scheme of investigation, (document number
D.6.5.2);

44.1.n

outline operational and maintenance environment management plan (document
number D.7.15); and

any other plans or documents referred to in this Order as requiring
certification, for certification that they are true copies of the documents
referred to in this Order.

44.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

45

45.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

45.1.a

by post;

45.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

45.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

45.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

45.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (2) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

45.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

45.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

45.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

45.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

45.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

45.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

45.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

45.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

45.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

45.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

45.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

45.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

45.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

45.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

45.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

45.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

45.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### No double recovery

46

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract or any rule of law, or under
two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Arbitration

47

47.1

Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided
for, is be referred to and settled in arbitration in accordance with the rules
at Schedule 12 (arbitration rules) of this Order, by a single arbitrator to be
agreed upon by the parties, within 14 days of receipt of the notice of
arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

47.2

For the avoidance of doubt, any matter for which the consent or approval of
the Secretary of State is required under any provision of this Order is not
subject to arbitration.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and
Net Zero       David Wagstaff   Deputy Director Energy Infrastructure Planning
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero     20th March 2024

Article 2

##### Authorised development

  A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14
and 21 of the 2008 Act, comprising:

###### In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester

  Work No. 1 : Construction of an AGI at Ince within the location shown on
Sheet 1 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound area
containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     electrical
transformer;         iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection
measures;         v     CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access
control systems;         vi     PIG launcher and receiver facilities;
vii     connection points;         viii     analyser house;         ix
control mechanisms and electrical and instrumentation kiosk;         x
hard standin         xi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;
b     above ground control boxes;         c     below ground pipework;
d     below ground cables and cable ducts;         e     hard standing;
f     drainage works, including creation of connections to existing drainage
and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation
pond(s); and         g     landscaping.

  Work No. 1A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and construction
compound for the use during the construction of the authorised development,
within the location shown on Sheet 1 of the Works Plans, including—     a
office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a parking area;
c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste processing and
management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 2 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Elton Lane (private road), within the location
shown on Sheet 1 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new
bellmouth junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of
utilities.

  Work No. 3 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from the Pool Lane/Oil Sites Road roundabout via the
unnamed road (private road) and via the unnamed road (private road) from Ash
Road, within the locations shown on Sheets 1 and 1a of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard
surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth junction and visibility
splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 3A:  The creation and use of a temporary vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Work No. 3 on the unnamed road, within the
location shown on Sheets 1 of the Works Plans, including improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 3B:  The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Ash Road within the location shown on Sheets 1 of
the Works Plans, including improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 4 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 994 metres in length and with an external diameter of 20 inches
(508 millimetres) between Work No. 1 and Work No. 5 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 5 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 893metres in length and with an external diameter of 20 inches
(508 millimetres) between Work No. 4 and Work No. 6 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 2 and 3 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 5A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Chester Services, within the location shown on Sheet 2 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 5B : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
A5117, within the location shown on Sheet 2 of the Work Plans, including—
a     improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and
b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No 5C:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul
road, temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 6:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.6km in length and with an external diameter of 20 inches (508
millimetres) between Work No. 5 and Work No. 7 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 2, 3 and 4 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 6A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and construction
compound for the use during the construction of the authorised development,
within the location shown on Sheet 2, 3 and 4 of the Works Plans, including—
a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a parking area;
c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste processing and
management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 6B : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and construction
compound for the use during the construction of the authorised development,
within the location shown on Sheet 2, 3 and 4 of the Work Plans, including—
a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a parking area;
c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d     pipe equipment and
fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f     a fabrication
area;         g     a plant wheel wash area;         h     waste processing
and management areas; and         i     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 6C:  Creation and use of a temporary construction access from Old
Cryers Lane, within the location shown on Sheets 3 and 4 of the Work Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 6D : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Cryers Lane, within the location shown on Sheets 3 and 4 of the Work Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway;         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard
surfacing; and         c     creation of visibility splays.

  Work No. 6E : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Cryers Lane, within the location shown on Sheets 3 and 4 of the Work Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing;

  Work No. 7 : Construction of two underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 )
pipelines with respective external diameters of 20 inches (508 millimetres)
and 36 inches (914.4 millimetres), and respective approximate lengths of 266
metres and 251 metres, from Work No. 6 to Work No. 9 and from Work No.9 to
Work No.11, including—     a     construction and installation of the pipeline
by trenched and untrenched methods, including trenchless installation
technique pit works, the creation of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and
installation of concrete-lined sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of
pipeline marker posts and cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline
route;         c     installation of underground telecommunications cable;
d     construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working
areas and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and
environmental works; and         f     drainage works including creation of
connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage
systems;

  as shown on Sheets 3 and 4 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 8:  The creation and use of a temporary vehicular access to the
authorised development, from A5117 within the location shown on Sheet 1 of the
Works Plans, including improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard
surfacing.

  Work No. 9:  Construction of an AGI at Stanlow within the location shown on
Sheet 3 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound area
containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     electrical
transformer;         iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection
measures;         v     CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access
control systems;         vi     PIG launcher and receiver facilities;
vii     isolation valves;         viii     above ground pipework, valves and
instrumentation;         ix     connection points;         x     analyser
house;         xi     control mechanisms and electrical and instrumentation
kiosk;         xii     hard standing.             b     below ground pipework;
c     above ground control boxes;         d     below ground cables and cable
ducts;         e     hard standing;         f     drainage works including
creation of connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable
drainage systems including attenuation pond(s); and         g     landscaping.

  Work No. 9A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and construction
compound for the use during the construction of the authorised development,
within the location shown on Sheet 3 of the Works Plans, including—     a
office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a parking area;
c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste processing and
management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 10 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Pool Lane within the location shown on Sheet 3 of
the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth
junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 11 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.1km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 7 and Work No. 12 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 3, 4 and 5 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 12 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 341 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 11 and Work No. 13 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 4 and 5 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 12A : Creation and use of a permanent access from Cryers Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 5 of the Work Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing;

  Work No. 13 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.3km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 12 and Work No. 14 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 13A:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul
road, temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 14 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 419 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 13 and Work No. 15 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 14A : Creation and use of permanent access from Picton Lane, within
the location shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 15:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.5km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 14 and Work No. 16 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems;

  as shown on Sheets 6 and 7 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 15A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 6 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
pipe equipment and fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f
a fabrication area;         g     a plant wheel wash area;         h     waste
processing and management areas; and         i     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 15B : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Picton Lane, within the location shown on Sheet 6 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway;         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard
surfacing; and         c     creation of visibility splays.

  Work No. 15C:  Creation and use of a permanent access from Picton Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 6 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 16:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 386 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 15 and Work No. 17 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 7 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 16A:  Creation and use of a permanent access from Picton Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 7 of the Work Plans, including improvement
of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing (excluding on the
bridleway).

  Work No. 16B: Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Picton Lane, within the location shown on Sheet 7 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 17 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 807 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 16 and Work No. 18 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on sheets 7 and 8 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 17A : Creation and use of a permanent access from Wervin Road,
within the location shown on Sheet 7 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 17B : Creation and use of a permanent access from Wervin Road,
within the location shown on Sheet 7 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 18 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 352 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 17 and Work No. 19 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 8 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 18A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Caughall Road, within the location shown on Sheet 8 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 19 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.4km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 18 and Work No. 22 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 19A:  The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 8 of the Work Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
pipe equipment and fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f
a fabrication area;         g     a plant wheel wash area;         h     waste
processing and management areas; and         i     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 19B : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Croughton Road, within the location shown on Sheet 8 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     creation of a junction with the public highway; and
b     construction of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 19C:  Creation and use of a temporary access from Chorlton Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 8 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 20 : Construction of a BVS at Rock Bank, at the location shown on
Sheet 8 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound area
containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     block valve;
iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection measures;         v
CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access control systems;
vi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;         vii
connection points;         viii     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk;         ix     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     above ground control boxes;         d     hard
standing;         e     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s); and         f     landscaping.

  Work No. 20A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 8 of the Work Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 21 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Chorlton Lane within the location shown on Sheet
8 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth
junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 22 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 291 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 19 and Work No. 23 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s).

  as shown on Sheet 9 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 23 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 545 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 22 and Work No. 24 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s).

  as shown on Sheet 9 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 23A:  Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Station Road, within the location shown on Sheet 9 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 23B : The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheet 9 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road,
temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 24 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 286 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 23 and Work No. 25 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 9 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 24A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Station Road, within the location shown on Sheets 9 and 10 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 25 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.9km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 24 and Work No. 28 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 9, 10 and 11 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 25A : Creation and use of a permanent access from Station Road,
within the location shown on Sheet 10 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 26 : Construction of a BVS at Mollington, at the location shown on
Sheet 10 and 11 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound
area containing     i     security lighting;         ii     block valve;
iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection measures;         v
CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access control systems;
vi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;         vii
connection points;         viii     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk;         ix     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     above ground control boxes;         d     hard
standing;         e     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s); and         f     landscaping.

  Work No. 26A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 10 and 11 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 27:  The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Overwood Lane within the location shown on Sheet
11 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth
junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 28 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 2.4km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 25 and Work No. 29 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 10, 11 and 12 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 28A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Overwood Lane, within the location shown on Sheets 10 and 11 of the Works
Plans, including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the
public highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision
of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 28B : Creation and use of a permanent access from the A540, within
the location shown on Sheet 11 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 28C : Creation and use of a permanent access from Hermitage Road,
within the location shown on Sheet 12 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

###### In the County of Flintshire

  Work No. 29 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 625 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 28 and Work No. 30 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 12 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 29A:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheet 12 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road,
temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 30:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.2km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 28 and Work No. 31 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 30A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 12 and 13 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
pipe equipment and fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f
a fabrication area;         g     a plant wheel wash area;         h     waste
processing and management areas; and         i     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 30B : Creation and use of a permanent access from the A548, within
the location shown on Sheet 12 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 30C:  Creation and use of a permanent access from the A548, within
the location shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of bridge and road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 30D : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 13 and 14 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
pipe equipment and fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f
a fabrication area;         g     waste processing and management areas; and
h     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 30E : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from the
A548, within the location shown on Sheets 13 and 14 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway;         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard
surfacing; and         c     creation of visibility splays.

  Work No. 31 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 873 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 30 and Work No. 32 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts, cathodic
protection cabinet and cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline
route;         c     installation of underground telecommunications cable;
d     construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working
areas and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and
environmental works; and         f     drainage works including creation of
connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage
systems including attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 13 and 14 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 31A:  The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 14 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
pipe equipment and fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f
a fabrication area;         g     a plant wheel wash area;         h     waste
processing and management areas; and         i     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 31B : Creation and use of a permanent access from the B5129, within
the location shown on Sheet 14 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway;         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing; and
c     creation of visibility splays.

  Work No. 31C:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheet 14 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road,
temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 32 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 595 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 31 and Work No. 33 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 14 and 15 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 32A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from the
B5129, within the location shown on Sheets 14 and 15 of the Work Plans,
including improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 33 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 2.5km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 32 and Work No. 34 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 14, 15 and 16 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 33A : Creation and use of a permanent access from Chester Road
East, within the location shown on Sheet 15 of the Works Plans, including—
a     improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and
b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 33B : Creation and use of a permanent access from Moor Lane, within
the location shown on Sheet 15 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 33C : Creation and use of a permanent access from Chester Road
East, within the location shown on Sheets 15 and 16 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 34:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 524 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 33 and Work No. 35 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works including removal and reinstatement of the bund along Chester Road; and
f     works including diversion or alteration of existing watercourse,
creation of connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable
drainage systems including attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 16 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 34A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Glendale Avenue, within the location shown on Sheet 16 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway;         b     provision of temporary public right of way diversion,
including fencing and signage; and         c     improvement of road surfacing
and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 35 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.9km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 34 and Work No. 38 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 16 and 17 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 35A : Creation and use of a permanent access from Gladstone Way,
within the location shown on Sheet 16 and 17 of the Works Plans, including—
a     improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and
b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 36  – Construction of a BVS at Aston Hill, at the location shown on
Sheet 16 and 17 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound
area containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     block valve;
iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection measures;         v
CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access control systems;
vi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;         vii
connection points;         viii     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk;         ix     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     above ground control boxes;         d     hard
standing;         e     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s); and         f     landscaping.

  Work No. 36A:  The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 37:  The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Lower Aston Hall Lane within the location shown
on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new
bellmouth junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of
utilities.

  Work No. 38:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 377 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 35 and Work No. 39 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 38A:  Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Lower Aston Hall Lane, within the location shown on Sheet 17 of the Works
Plans, including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the
public highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision
of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 38B:  Creation and use of a permanent construction access from
Lower Aston Hall Lane, within the location shown on Sheet 17 of the Works
Plans, including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the
public highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision
of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 39 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 402 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 38 and Work No. 40 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 39A:  Creation and use of a temporary construction access from Old
Aston Hill, within the location shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing

  Work No. 39B : The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road,
temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 40 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 561 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 39 and Work No. 41 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 17 and 18 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 40A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from Old
Aston Hill, within the location shown on Sheets 17 and 18 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 40B:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheets 17 and 18 the Work Plans, including construction of a haul
road, temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 40C : Creation and use of a permanent access from Church Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of new bellmouth junction; and         b     improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 41 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.1km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 40 and Work No. 42 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 17 and 18 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 41A : Number not used

  Work No. 41B:  Creation and use of a temporary construction access from the
B5125, within the location shown on Sheet 18 of the Works Plans, including—
a     construction of a temporary construction access and working area;
b     improvement of an existing junction with the public highway;         c
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing; and
d     creation of visibility splays.

  Work No. 41C:  Creation and use of a permanent access from the B5125, within
the location shown on Sheet 18 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 41D:  Number not used

  Work No. 42:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 1.8km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 41 and Work No. 43 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works;         f     alteration or removal of existing structures; and
g     drainage works including creation of connections to existing drainage
and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation
pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 18 and 19 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 42A:  Creation and use of a permanent access from Green Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 18 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 43 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 611 metres in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work Nos. 42 and 43E and between Work Nos, 43E and
44 including—     a     construction and installation of the pipeline by
trenched and untrenched methods, including trenchless installation technique
pit works, the creation of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and
installation of concrete-lined sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of
pipeline marker posts and cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline
route;         c     installation of underground telecommunications cable;
d     construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working
areas and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and
environmental works; and         f     drainage works including creation of
connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage
systems including attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 43A:  The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 43B : Creation and use of a permanent access from Pinfold Lane,
within the location shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans, including—     a
improvement of an existing junction with the public highway; and         b
improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 43C : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
unnamed road, within the location shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 43D:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road,
temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No 43E : Construction of a concrete, embedded pipe bridge structure to
carry the pipeline across the Alltami Brook, being formed of a concrete span
and abutments, with the pipeline buried within the structure of the bridge
under a removable concrete slab, and including—     a     Ground works
including alteration of ground levels, ground stabilisation;         b
Piling for abutments if required;         c     Fencing, gating, handrails
and/or fall protection and other security measures;         d     Surface
water drainage within the pipe bridge structure; and         e     Creation of
a diverted public right of way route (including where required, alteration of
ground levels and ground stabilisation).

  Work No. 44:  Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 2.5km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 43 and Work No. 47 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 19 and 20 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 44A:  The creation and use of a permanent access to the authorised
development including creation and/or improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing; and a temporary logistics and construction
compound for the use during the construction of the authorised development,
within the location shown on Sheet 19 and 20 of the Work Plans, including as
temporary works—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b
a parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 44B : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from the
B5125, within the location shown on Sheet 20 of the Works Plans, including—
a     creation of a new bellmouth junction with the public highway; and
b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing.

  Work No. 44C : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 20 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
pipe equipment and fittings storage;         e     plant storage;         f
a fabrication area;         g     a plant wheel wash area;         h     waste
processing and management areas; and         i     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 45:  Construction of an AGI at Northop Hall, within the location
shown on Sheet 20 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound
area containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     electrical
transformer;         iii     parking;         iv     CCTV cameras, intrusion
detection systems and access control systems;         v     PIG launcher and
receiver facilities;         vi     isolation valves;         vii
connection points;         viii     analyser house;         ix     control
mechanisms and electrical and instrumentation kiosk;         x     hard
standing;             b     below ground pipework;         c     above ground
control boxes;         d     below ground cables and cable ducts;         e
hard standing;         f     drainage works including creation of connections
to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems
including attenuation pond(s); and         g     landscaping.

  Work No 45A:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of the authorised development, within the location
shown on Sheet 20 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road,
temporary construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 45B : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from B5125 within the location shown on Sheet 20 of
the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth
junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 46 : The creation and use of a temporary vehicular construction
access to the authorised development, from B5125 within the location shown on
Sheet 20 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing; and         b     creation of a
new bellmouth junction and visibility splays.

  Work No. 47 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 2.4km in length and with an external diameter of 36 inches
(914.4 millimetres) between Work No. 44 and Work No. 50 including—     a
construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works; and         f     drainage works including creation of connections to
existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage systems including
attenuation pond(s).

  as shown on Sheets 20, 21 and 22 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 47A : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Starkey Lane, within the location shown on Sheet 21 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 47B : Creation and use of a temporary construction access from
Starkey Lane, within the location shown on Sheet 21 and 22 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     improvement of an existing junction with the public
highway; and         b     improvement of road surfacing and provision of new
hard surfacing.

  Work No. 48 : Construction of an AGI at Flint, within the location shown on
Sheet 22 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound area
containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     electrical
transformer;         iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection
measures;         v     CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access
control systems;         vi     PIG launcher and receiver facilities;
vii     isolation valves;         viii     connection points;         ix
analyser house;         x     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk         xi     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     above ground control boxes;         d     below
ground cables and cable ducts;         e     hard standing;         f
drainage works including creation of connections to existing drainage and
creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation pond(s);
and         g     landscaping.

  Work No. 48A:  The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 22 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 49 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Allt-Goch Lane (east) within the location shown
on Sheet 22 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new
bellmouth junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of
utilities.

  Work No. 50 : Construction of an underground Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) pipeline
approximately 422 metres in length and with an external diameter of 24 inches
(609.6 millimetres) between Work No. 47 and the existing pipeline including—
a     construction and installation of the pipeline by trenched and untrenched
methods, including trenchless installation technique pit works, the creation
of reception shafts, and launch shafts, and installation of concrete-lined
sleeve tunnels;         b     installation of pipeline marker posts and
cathodic protection test posts along the pipeline route;         c
installation of underground telecommunications cable;         d
construction of a haul road, temporary construction accesses and working areas
and laydown area;         e     landscaping, ecological and environmental
works;         f     works to connect to the existing pipeline and         g
drainage works including creation of connections to existing drainage and
creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation pond(s);

  as shown on Sheets 22 and 23 of the Works Plans.

  Work No. 51 : Construction of a BVS at Cornist Lane, at the location shown
on Sheet 25 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound area
containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     block valve;
iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection measures;         v
CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access control systems;
vi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;         vii
connection points;         viii     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk;         ix     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     works to connect to the existing pipeline;
d     above ground control boxes;         e     hard standing;         f
drainage works including creation of connections to existing drainage and
creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation pond(s);
and         g     landscaping.

  Work No. 51A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 25 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 51B:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of Work No. 51, within the location shown on Sheets 24
and 25 of the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road, temporary
construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 52 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Cornist Lane within the location shown on Sheet
25 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth
junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 53 : Construction of a BVS at Pentre Halkyn at the location shown
on Sheet 27 and 28 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound
area containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     block valve;
iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection measures;         v
CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access control systems;
vi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;         vii
connection points;         viii     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk;         ix     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     works to connect to the existing pipeline;
d     above ground control boxes;         e     hard standing;         f
drainage works including creation of connections to existing drainage and
creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation pond(s);
and         g     landscaping.

  Work No. 53A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheets 27 and 28 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     power supplies and temporary lighting;         d
plant storage;         e     waste processing and management areas; and
f     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 53B:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of Work No. 53, within the location shown on Sheets 27
and 28 the Work Plans including construction of a haul road, temporary
construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 54 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from B5121 within the location shown on Sheet 27 and
28 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road surfacing and
provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new bellmouth
junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of utilities.

  Work No. 55 : Construction of a BVS at Babell, at the location shown on
Sheet 29 of the Works Plans, including—     a     a fenced compound area
containing—     i     security lighting;         ii     block valve;
iii     parking;         iv     cathodic protection measures;         v
CCTV cameras, intrusion detection systems and access control systems;
vi     above ground pipework, valves and instrumentation;         vii
connection points;         viii     control mechanisms and electrical and
instrumentation kiosk;         ix     hard standing;             b     below
ground pipework;         c     works to connect to the existing pipeline;
d     above ground control boxes;         e     hard standing;         f
drainage works including creation of connections to existing drainage and
creation of new sustainable drainage systems including attenuation pond(s);
and         g     landscaping.

  Work No. 55A : The creation and use of a temporary logistics and
construction compound for the use during the construction of the authorised
development, within the location shown on Sheet 29 and 30 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     office, welfare and security facilities;         b     a
parking area;         c     plant and materials storage;         d     waste
processing and management areas; and         e     fencing and gating.

  Work No. 55B:  The creation and use of a temporary working area for the use
during the construction of Work No.55, within the location shown on Sheets 29
and 30 the Works Plans, including construction of a haul road, temporary
construction accesses and working areas and laydown areas.

  Work No. 56 : The creation and use of a permanent vehicular access to the
authorised development, from Racecourse Lane within the location shown on
Sheet 29 and 30 of the Works Plans, including—     a     improvement of road
surfacing and provision of new hard surfacing;         b     creation of a new
bellmouth junction and visibility splays; and         c     installation of
utilities.

  Work No 57:  the provision of environmental and ecological mitigation for
the authorised development including landscaping, woodland and hedgerow
planting, scrub planting, riparian planting, habitat creation, fencing and
gating, comprising:

###### In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester 

  Work No. 57A:  Creation of environmental mitigation, east of Cryers Lane, at
the location shown on Sheets 2, 3 and 4 of the Works Plans, including woodland
planting.

  Work No. 57B:  Creation of environmental mitigation south-west of Stanlow
AGI, at the location shown on Sheets 3 and 4 of the Works Plans, including
woodland planting.

  Work No. 57C:  Creation of environmental mitigation north of the M56 at the
location shown on Sheets 4 and 5 of the Works Plans, including woodland
planting.

  Work No. 57D:  Creation of environmental mitigation south of the M56 at the
location shown on Sheets 4 and 5 of the Works Plans, including woodland
planting.

  Work No. 57E:  Creation of environmental mitigation east of River Gowy/south
of M56 at the location shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the Works Plans, including
woodland planting.

  Work No. 57F:  Creation of environmental mitigation west of River Gowy/south
of M56 at the location shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the Works Plans, including –
a     woodland planting to create new woodland block west of River Gowy; and
b     riparian planting along western bank of River Gowy and connected ditch.

  Work No. 57G:  Creation of environmental mitigation north of the Shropshire
Union Canal / west of Liverpool Road at the location shown on Sheet 9 of the
Works Plans, including woodland planting.

###### In the County of Flintshire 

  Work No. 57H:  Creation of environmental mitigation east of the A494 at the
location shown on Sheet 17 of the Works Plans, including—     a     woodland
planting; and         b     scrub planting over the pipeline.

  Work No. 57I:  Creation of environmental mitigation west of Aston Hill/east
of Shotton Lane at the location shown on Sheet 17 and 18 of the Works Plans,
including—     a     woodland planting; and         b     scrub planting over
the easement, where the pipeline is laid, and over known utilities locations.

  Work No 57J:  Creation of environmental mitigation on land east of Alltami
Brook at the location shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans, including—     a
creation of new woodland block; and         b     scrub planting over the
pipeline.

  Work No 57K:  Creation of environmental mitigation at Alltami Brook at the
location shown on Sheet 19 of the Works Plans, including—     a     woodland
planting either side of the pipeline;         b     scrub planting over the
pipeline; and         c     riparian planting along the edge of the brook.

  Work No 57L:  Creation of environmental mitigation east of Brookside at the
location shown on Sheets 19 and 20 of the Works Plans, including—     a
woodland planting;         b     scrub planting over known utilities’
locations; and         c     riparian planting buffer along the southern edge
of the order limits adjacent to ditch, should trees along the boundary be
removed. Else, continuation of woodland planting only.

  Work No 57M:  Creation of environmental mitigation west of Work No.44 at the
location shown on Sheet 20 of the Works Plans, including –     a     woodland
planting; and         b     scrub planting over the pipeline.

  Work No 57N:  Creation of environmental mitigation west of Work No. 57M at
the location shown on Sheet 20 of the Works Plans, including  –     a
woodland planting; and         b     scrub planting over the pipeline.

  And in connection with Work Nos. 1 to 57N, and to the extent that they do
not otherwise form part of any such work, development comprising such other
works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection
with the relevant part of the authorised development and which fall within the
scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement, including—     a
temporary works for the benefit or protection of land, watercourses or
structures affected by the authorised development;         b     site
clearance (including fencing and demolition of existing structures);         c
earthworks (including soil stripping and storage, site levelling and
alteration of ground levels), and remediation of contamination if present;
d     works to alter the position of apparatus at or below ground level
including mains, sewers, drains and cables and also including below ground
structures associated with that apparatus;         e     watercourse and other
temporary crossings;         f     means of access and other vehicular and/or
pedestrian means of access, including creation of new tracks and footpaths,
and/or widening, upgrades, alterations and improvements of existing roads,
tracks and footpaths/alteration of layout of streets to form temporary and
permanent accesses, altering the level of any kerb, footway or verge within a
street and surface treatments; diversions during construction of existing
access routes and subsequent reinstatement of existing routes;         g
surface water management systems, temporary drainage during installations;
h     landscaping works/landscaping, planting, vegetation removal, trimming
and lopping of trees, tree planting and erection of permanent means of
enclosure and boundary facilities including fences and gates, alteration of
drains and ditches, bunds, embankments, swales, landscaping, fencing and
boundary treatments;         i     manholes, marker posts, underground
markers, tiles and tape;         j     works for the provision or relocation
of apparatus including cabling, water and electricity supply works, foul
drainage provision;         k     creation, use and reinstatement of crane
pads; and         l     works of restoration.

##### Ancillary works

  Works within the Order limits which fall within the scope of the work
assessed by the environmental statement comprising works for the benefit or
protection of land affected by the authorised development.

  Requirements

Article 2

##### Requirements

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ AOD ” means above Ordnance Datum;           “ commissioning ” means
the process during which plant components and systems forming part of the
authorised development, having been constructed or modified, are made
operational and are tested and verified to be in accordance with design
assumptions and to have met the appropriate safety criteria;           “
contaminated land ” has the same meaning as that given in section 78A of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990 ;           “ CTMP ” means construction
traffic management plan;           “ DEMP ” means decommissioning
environmental management plan;           “ discharging authority ” means any
body responsible for giving any consent, agreement or approval required by a
requirement included in Part 1 of this Schedule, or for giving any consent,
agreement or approval further to any document referred to in any such
requirement;           “ LEMP ” means the landscape and ecology management
plan;           “ requirement consultee ” means any body named in a
requirement as a body to be consulted by the discharging authority in
discharging that requirement; and           “ stage ” means the works and
ancillary works, or parts thereof, to be carried out together as a phase of,
or in a defined order within, the construction of the authorised development.

###### Time limits

2

2.1

The authorised development must not commence later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date on which this Order comes into force.

2.2

Notice of commencement of the authorised development must be given to the
relevant planning authorities no later than 14 days before the date on which
the authorised development is intended to be commenced.

###### Stages of authorised development

3

The authorised development may not commence until a written scheme setting out
all stages of the authorised development and including a plan indicating when
each stage will be implemented, has been submitted to each relevant planning
authority.

3.a

The written scheme submitted under this sub-paragraph may be amended by the
undertaker. Where any amended written scheme is submitted under this sub-
paragraph, any prior submitted written scheme will be held to be superseded.

3.b

Any amended written scheme must be submitted to each relevant planning
authority before any amendment may take effect for the purpose of sub-
paragraph (4).

4

4.1

The description of each stage in the written scheme to be submitted under sub-
paragraph (1) must include the Work No(s) of the works within that stage.

4.2

More than one stage may be planned to be undertaken concurrently.

4.3

The authorised development must be implemented in accordance with the written
scheme submitted under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Scheme design

5

5.1

The authorised development must be carried out in general accordance with the
general arrangement plans. The authorised development will not be in general
accordance with the general arrangement plans if any departure from the
general arrangement plans would give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental
statement.

5.2

The authorised development must be designed in accordance with the parameters
specified in Table 1 below and the works plans and implemented in accordance
with approved plans and any other approvals given by the relevant planning
authority pursuant to these requirements.

  Table 1       Work Type Parameter Part(s) of the authorised development
Maximum value(s) and unit   AGI Maximum fenced area of Ince AGI Work No. 1
1,800m2 AGI Maximum fenced area of Stanlow AGI Work No. 9 2,656m2 AGI Maximum
fenced area of Northop Hall AGI Work No.45 1,155m2 AGI Maximum fenced area of
Flint AGI Work No.48 5,600m2 AGI Maximum height of buildings and structures
Work Nos. 1, 9, 45 and 48 5m from ground level AGI Maximum width of new
permanent accesses Work Nos. 2, 8, 10, 46 and 49 6m AGI Maximum height of
fencing and gating Work No. 1, 9, 45, 48 3m from ground level BVS Maximum
fenced area of BVS Work No. 20, 26, 36, 51, 53, 55 1,050m2 BVS Maximum height
of buildings and structures Work Nos. 20, 26, 36, 51, 53 and 55 5m from ground
level BVS Maximum height of fencing and gating Work Nos. 20, 26, 36, 51, 53
and 55 3m from ground level BVS Maximum width of new permanent accesses Work
No. 21, 27, 37, 52, 54 and 56 3m Construction compound Maximum height of
fencing and gating Work No. 6B, 15A, 19A, 30A, 30D, 31A, 41A and 44C 2.4m from
ground level Construction Compound Maximum fenced area of Stanlow Compound
Work No. 6B 66,000m2 Construction Compound Maximum fenced area of Picton Lane
Compound Work No. 15A 32,000m2 Construction Compound Maximum fenced area of
Chorlton Lane Compound Work No. 19A 41,000m2 Construction Compound Maximum
fenced area of Wood Farm Compound Work No. 30D 90,000m2 Construction Compound
Maximum fenced area of Sealand Road Compound Work No. 30A 48,000m2
Construction Compound Maximum fenced area of River Dee Compound Work No. 31A
43,000m2 Construction Compound Maximum fenced area of Shotton Lane Compound
Work No. 41A 37,000m2 Construction Compound Maximum fenced area of Northop
Hall Compound Work No. 44C 35,000m2

5.3

The buildings and structures identified in Table 1 must only be constructed
within the area for the Work No. of which they form part as shown in the works
plans.

5.4

Each of Work Nos. 1, 9, 20, 26, 36, 45, 48, 51, 53 and 55 may not be commenced
until, for that Work No. the following details have been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority:

5.4.a

the siting, layout, scale and external appearance, including the colour,
materials and surface finishes of all new permanent buildings and structures;

5.4.b

details of permanent accesses to the public highway;

5.4.c

details of any external lighting; and

5.4.d

details of the noise ratings of any external machinery or potentially noisy
installations (such as fans).

5.5

No part of Work No. 43E may be commenced until details of the design and
construction methodology of any works have been submitted to and approved by
the relevant planning authority following consultation with Natural Resources
Wales.

5.6

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (5) must be accompanied by flood
risk assessment showing the maximum water level reached in a 1 in 100 year
event plus 40% climate change scenario. The soffit level of the embedded pipe
bridge over the Alltami brook must be set no less than 300 millimetres above
that maximum water level. The flood consequences assessment must also
demonstrate that the impacts of the proposal on flood risk elsewhere can be
managed to an acceptable level.

5.7

Where the position of the abutments of Work No. 43E require the stopping up of
part of the current route of Footpath 414/39A, the details submitted under
sub-paragraph (5) must include a scheme setting out the alternative route and
specification for the permanent diversion of the part of public right of way
Footpath 414/39A to be stopped up, and setting out how that alternative is to
be legally created.

5.8

The works listed in sub-paragraph (4) and (5) must be implemented in
accordance with the details approved under this paragraph.

###### Construction environmental management plan

6

6.1

No stage of the authorised development must commence until a CEMP which
includes that stage has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority following consultation with the Environment Agency and/or
the Lead Local Flood Authority.

6.2

The CEMP must be in accordance with the outline construction environment
management plan and include management plans, working methods and mitigation
measures including—

6.2.a

details of lighting during construction;

6.2.b

noise and vibration management plan;

6.2.c

dust management plan;

6.2.d

material management plan;

6.2.e

soil management plan;

6.2.f

peat management plan;

6.2.g

waste management plan;

6.2.h

groundwater management and monitoring plan;

6.2.i

bio-security management plan;

6.2.j

surface water management and monitoring plan;

6.2.k

dewatering management plan;

6.2.l

stakeholder communications plan; and

6.2.m

public rights of way management plan.

6.3

Each stage of the authorised development must be implemented in accordance
with the approved CEMP for that stage.

###### Construction traffic

7

7.1

Save in respect of matters approved in accordance with articles 13 (temporary
restriction of public rights of way) and 15 (temporary restriction of use of
streets) no stage of the authorised development must commence until a CTMP for
that stage, in accordance with the outline construction traffic management
plan, has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority
following consultation with the relevant highway authority.

7.2

The CTMP for each stage must include a construction logistics plan to manage
delivery of goods and materials.

7.3

The CTMP for each stage must include a construction worker travel plan in
accordance with the interim worker travel plan and include measures to be
taken to promote sustainable travel options and minimise use of private
vehicles.

7.4

Each stage of the authorised development must be implemented in accordance
with the approved CTMP for that stage.

###### Highway accesses

8

8.1

Construction of any new permanent or temporary means of access to a highway,
or alteration, or use of an existing means of access to a highway, must not
commence until an access plan for that access has been submitted to and
approved by the relevant highway authority.

8.2

The access plan must include details of the siting, design, layout, visibility
splays, access management measures and a maintenance programme relevant to the
access it relates to.

8.3

The relevant highway authority must be consulted on the access plan before it
is submitted for approval.

8.4

The highway accesses (including visibility splays) must be implemented in
accordance with the approved details.

###### Surface water drainage

9

9.1

No development of Work Nos. 1, 9, 20, 26, 36, 45, 48, 51, 53 and 55 may
commence until, for that Work No, a surface water drainage plan for permanent
works relevant to that stage, in accordance with the relevant part of the
outline surface water drainage strategy has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant planning authority or, where applicable, the Environment Agency
and/or Natural Resources Wales and/or the Lead Local Flood Authority.

9.2

The surface water drainage system for each stage must be implemented in
accordance with the approved details.

9.3

No discharge of water under article 20 (discharge of water) must be made until
details of the location and rate of discharge have been submitted to the
relevant planning authority or, where applicable, the Environment Agency
and/or Natural Resources Wales and/or the Lead Local Flood Authority.

###### Contamination land and groundwater: Part A - Stanlow

10

10.1

No intrusive works or any works which are likely to cause significant harm to
persons or pollution of controlled waters or the environment, other than those
necessary to undertake ground investigation for the purposes of identifying
any contamination which may be present, can be carried out within plots 3-11,
3-12, 3-13, 3-14 and 3-15, unless and until either sub-paragraph (2) or sub-
paragraph (3) has been complied with.

10.2

The Environment Agency has confirmed in writing that any contamination of the
plots listed in sub-paragraph (1) has been remediated to a standard which
renders those plots fit for the use consented under this Order.

10.3

The undertaker must:

10.3.a

carry out further ground investigations within plots 3-11, 3-12, 3-13, and
within the highway verges within plots 3-14 and 3-15, to identify any
contamination preset. The investigations must include testing for per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances.

10.3.b

Where no contamination is identified under paragraph (a), the undertaker must
submit a report of the investigations undertaken and the results thereof to
the relevant planning authority; no works set out in sub-paragraph (1) may be
undertaken unless and until the relevant planning authority, following
consultation with the Environment Agency, has approved the report submitted.

10.3.c

Where contamination is identified under paragraph (a), a written risk
assessment must be completed by the undertaker in order to assess the nature
and extent of any contamination. Where having regard to that risk assessment—

10.3.c.i

the undertaker considers that remediation is required, a detailed remediation
scheme must be prepared and submitted by the undertaker for the approval of
the relevant planning authority in consultation with the Environment Agency;
or

10.3.c.ii

the undertaker considers that remediation is not required, the risk assessment
must be submitted to the relevant planning authority; or

10.3.c.iii

remediation is determined by the relevant planning authority, following
consultation with the Environment Agency, not to be required, the relevant
planning authority must approve the risk assessment and Work Nos. 5 and 7 may
commence; or

10.3.c.iv

remediation is determined by the relevant planning authority, following
consultation with the Environment Agency, to be required, a detailed
remediation scheme must be prepared and submitted by the undertaker for the
approval of the relevant planning authority in consultation with the
Environment Agency.

10.3.d

Where a remediation scheme is required under paragraph (c), the remediation
must be implemented by the undertaker in accordance with the approved detailed
remediation scheme, and a verification report following completion of those
remediation works must be submitted to the relevant planning authority for
approval before Work Nos 5 and 7 may be commenced. Such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

######### Part B – other sites identified as requiring further investigation

10.4

No intrusive works or any works which are likely to cause significant harm to
persons or pollution of controlled waters or the environment, other than those
necessary to undertake ground investigation for the purposes of identifying
any contamination which may be present, can be carried out within plots 1-25,
4-12, 4-20, 8-10 and 8-12 unless and until sub-paragraph (5) has been complied
with.

10.5

The undertaker must:

10.5.a

carry out further ground investigations within plots 1-25 (adjacent to Ince
railway), plot 4-12 (in the former gateway), plots 8-10 and 8-12, and
groundwater testing in plot 4-20 (to the north of the M56 motorway) to
identify any contamination present.

10.5.b

Where no contamination is identified under paragraph (a), the undertaker must
submit a report of the investigations undertaken and the results thereof to
the relevant planning authority; no works in the plots set out in sub-
paragraph (4) may be undertaken unless and until the relevant planning
authority, following consultation with the Environment Agency, has approved
the report submitted.

10.5.c

Where contamination is identified under paragraph (a), a written risk
assessment must be completed by the undertaker in order to assess the nature
and extent of any contamination. Where having regard to that risk assessment—

10.5.c.i

the undertaker considers that remediation is required, a detailed remediation
scheme must be prepared and submitted by the undertaker for the approval of
the relevant planning authority in consultation with the Environment Agency;
or

10.5.c.ii

the undertaker considers that remediation is not required, the risk assessment
must be submitted to the relevant planning authority; and

10.5.c.iii

remediation is determined by the relevant planning authority, following
consultation with the Environment Agency, not to be required, the relevant
planning authority must approve the risk assessment and Works in the plots
listed in sub-paragraph (4) may commence; or

10.5.c.iv

remediation is determined by the relevant planning authority, following
consultation with the Environment Agency, to be required, a detailed
remediation scheme must be prepared and submitted by the undertaker for the
approval of the relevant planning authority in consultation with the
Environment Agency.

10.5.d

Where a remediation scheme is required under paragraph (c), the remediation
must be implemented by the undertaker in accordance with the approved detailed
remediation scheme under sub-paragraph (5), and a verification report
following completion of those remediation works must be submitted to the
relevant planning authority for approval and such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

10.6

Approval of the requirements of sub-paragraphs (4) and (5) may be sought and
granted in stages provided that plots 1-19; 1-20; 1-21; 1-22; 1-23; 1-24 and
1-25 must all be contained within a single stage, plots 3-18; 4-19; 4-20;
5-01; 5-02; 5-03; 5-04 and 5-05 must all be contained within a single stage
and plots 3-16; 4-11; 4-12; 4-13; 4-14; 4-15; 4-16; 4-17; and 4-18; must all
be contained within a single stage. Nothing in this part of this requirement
will prevent the commencement of works in any stage which does not contain any
of the plots listed in sub-paragraph (4).

######### Part C – unexpected contamination

10.7

In the event that contamination is found at any time when carrying out the
authorised development it must be reported in writing to the relevant planning
authority as soon as reasonably practicable.

10.8

Where contamination has been reported to the relevant planning authority in
accordance with sub-paragraph (7), an investigation and risk assessment must
be completed by the undertaker in accordance with a contamination scheme to
assess the nature and extent of any contamination on the part of the Order
limits within which works are being carried out, whether or not that
contamination originates on that part of the Order limits and—

10.8.a

the contents of that contamination scheme are subject to the approval of the
relevant planning authority; and

10.8.b

that investigation and risk assessment must be undertaken by the undertaker
within timescales agreed with the relevant planning authority and in
accordance with the approved contamination scheme, and a written report of the
findings must be submitted to the relevant planning authority.

10.9

Where remediation is determined by the relevant planning authority to be
required having had regard to the results of an investigation and risk
assessment carried out under sub-paragraph (8), a detailed remediation scheme
must be prepared and submitted by the undertaker for the approval of the
relevant planning authority.

10.10

Unless otherwise agreed by the relevant planning authority, no intrusive works
or other works which would disturb the contaminated land or groundwater can be
carried out in the part of the Order limits in which the contamination is
identified under sub-paragraph (7) until the investigation and risk assessment
in accordance with sub-paragraph (8), and if required, a remediation scheme in
accordance with sub-paragraph (9) has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

10.11

The remediation must be implemented by the undertaker in accordance with the
approved detailed remediation scheme under sub-paragraph (9), and a
verification report following completion of those remediation works must be
submitted to the relevant planning authority for approval. Such approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Archaeology

11

11.1

The authorised development must be implemented in accordance with the outline
archaeological written scheme of investigation.

11.2

No stage of the authorised development with the potential to affect buried
archaeological assets must commence until a written scheme for the
investigation of areas of archaeological interest relevant to that stage (if
any) as identified in the outline archaeological written scheme of
investigation has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority following consultation with Historic England or Cadw as appropriate.

11.3

The scheme approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be in accordance with the
outline archaeological written scheme of investigation, and identify the
measures to be taken to investigate, protect, record or preserve any
significant archaeological remains that may be found.

11.4

Any archaeological works carried out under the approved scheme must be carried
out by an organisation registered with the Chartered Institute for
Archaeologists or by a member of that Institute.

11.5

Any archaeological works must be implemented in accordance with the approved
scheme.

###### Landscape and ecological management plan

12

12.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), no stage of the authorised development must
commence until a LEMP, for that stage, in accordance with the outline
landscape and ecological management plan, has been submitted to and approved
by the relevant planning authority.

12.2

The LEMP must include:

12.2.a

an implementation timetable;

12.2.b

measures for the protection of ancient woodland areas detailed within an
arboricultural method statement and shown on a tree protection plan; and

12.2.c

measures for the protection of existing features adjacent to the Works as
detailed in the Environmental Statement.

12.3

Each stage of the authorised development must be implemented in accordance
with the approved LEMP for that stage.

12.4

If any tree, hedge or shrub planted as part of the approved landscape and
ecological management plan within a period of twenty five years after
planting, is removed, dies or becomes in the opinion of the relevant planning
authority seriously damaged or diseased, it must be replaced in the first
available planting season with a specimen of the same species and size as
originally planted unless a different species is otherwise approved by the
relevant planning authority.

12.5

Sub-paragraph (1) only applies to those stages of the authorised development
in respect of which any landscape and ecological management measures are to be
implemented by the undertaker, as identified in the outline LEMP.

###### Ecological surveys

13

No stage of the authorised development may commence until it has been
established by survey work whether any European protected species are present
within the Order limits or may be affected by that stage of the authorised
development.

###### Biodiversity Net Gain

14

14.1

No development may commence until a scheme (which may comprise of up to 2
parts being one for within England and one for within Wales) securing the
provision of BNG of 1% or greater for the priority habitats affected by the
authorised development (as calculated using Natural England Biodiversity
Metric 3.1, or such other biodiversity metric approved by the relevant
planning authority in consultation with the relevant statutory nature
consultation body), has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
relevant planning authority. The scheme must set out measures to deliver and
secure the maintenance for 30 years of the BNG provision.

14.2

Where such a scheme is approved under this requirement, the works set out in
that scheme must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

14.3

The approved scheme shall be maintained in accordance with the scheme of
maintenance secured for 30 years of the BNG provision under sub-paragraph (2).

###### Construction hours

15

15.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), construction works must only take
place between 0800 and 1800 on weekdays and 0800 to 1300 on Saturdays (except
public and bank holidays), except in the event of an emergency unless a scheme
for the carrying of those works specifying the hours in which they may be
carried out has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority. Where such a scheme is approved under this requirement, the works
set out in that scheme must be carried out in accordance with the approved
scheme.

15.2

In the event of an emergency, notification of that emergency must be given to
the relevant planning authority and the relevant highway authority as soon as
reasonably practicable.

15.3

The following operations may where necessary continue or take place outside
the working hours referred to in sub-paragraph (1)—

15.3.a

trenchless construction techniques which cannot be interrupted;

15.3.b

filling, testing, dewatering and drying; and

15.3.c

commissioning of the pipeline works.

15.4

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) precludes—

15.4.a

the receipt of oversize deliveries to site and the undertaking of non-
intrusive activities;

15.4.b

start-up and shut-down activities up to an hour either side of the stated
working hours and undertaken in compliance with the CEMP;

15.4.c

works on a traffic sensitive street where so directed by the relevant highway
authority; and

15.4.d

works to make construction sites safe in the event of extreme weather.

15.5

In this Requirement—

      “ emergency ” means a situation where, if the relevant action is not
taken, there will be adverse health, safety, security or environmental
consequences that in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker would outweigh
the adverse effects to the public (whether individuals, classes or generally
as the case may be) of taking that action;           “ non-intrusive
activities ” means activities which would not create any discernible light,
noise or vibration outside the Order limits;           “ trenchless
construction techniques which cannot be interrupted ” means drilling,
tunnelling, boring or similar construction methods used to create an
underground route for the pipeline without trenching from the surface, and
includes any necessary ancillary activities to that drilling, tunnelling or
boring;  but does not include operations to prepare for drilling, tunnelling
and boring, and specifically does not include works of excavation of pits, or
works to remediate the site of pits used for drilling, tunnelling and boring;
and           “ start-up and shut-down activities ” includes personnel
briefings, inspections, tool-box talks, inductions, health and safety works,
deliveries, movement to place of work, unloading, maintenance and general
preparation work; but does not include operation of heavy machinery for
construction, or operation of generators or flood lights at work-fronts.

###### Operational noise

16

16.1

Between 23.00 and 07.00 hours, noise arising from normal operation of the AGIs
and BVSs may not exceed the rating levels identified in Table 15-23 of the
environmental statement. Rating levels are applicable as a free field noise
level at 1m from any residential property which is lawfully inhabited at the
date of the making of this Order at the locations shown in Table 15-23.

16.2

The level set out in sub-paragraph (1) is to be as measured in accordance with
British Standard 4142:2014+A1:2019 (Methods for rating and assessing
industrial and commercial sound) and British Standard 7445-3:1991 (Description
and measurement of environmental noise. Guide to application to noise limits)
or any standards replacing those.

16.3

Prior to the commencement of the authorised development, the undertaker must
submit a plan to the relevant planning authorities for approval detailing how
noise monitoring will be undertaken within a six month period beginning with
the date of first operation of the authorised development. That plan must
specify a monitoring location point for each AGI and BVS, which must be in as
close proximity as the undertaker can lawfully access, or at the points
representative of noise sensitive receptors, as shown in Table 15-23 of the
environmental statement.

16.4

Noise monitoring must be undertaken by the undertaker in accordance with the
plan approved under sub-paragraph (3) and the results of this monitoring must
be submitted by the undertaker to the relevant planning authority at the
intervals set out in the plan.

16.5

Where the results of the monitoring undertaken in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (3) and (4), show any exceedance of the level set out in sub-
paragraph (1), the undertaker must, within 10 working days, submit to the
relevant planning authority for approval a mitigation plan detailing how the
exceedance will be mitigated and including a timetable for implementing any
works required to deliver such mitigation.

16.6

The undertaker must comply with any plan approved under sub-paragraph (5).

###### Provision of ‘as built’ details

17

The undertaker must, within 3 months of the completion of the authorised
development, provide to the relevant planning authorities details of—

17.a

the location and depth of each part of the Pipeline as it has been
constructed;

17.b

any protective measures in place over any part of the Pipeline; and

17.c

the locations of pipeline markers.

###### Restoration of land

18

Subject to article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development), any land within the Order limits which is used temporarily for
or in connection with construction must be reinstated to a condition fit for
its former use, or such other condition as the relevant planning authority may
approve, within 12 months of completion of the authorised development.

###### Operational and maintenance environmental management plan

19

19.1

The undertaker must, no later than three months prior to the planned
completion of commissioning of the authorised development, submit to the
relevant planning authorities the operational and maintenance environment
management plan (or plans) which details the monitoring and management
requirements of the authorised development, including post-construction
monitoring.

19.2

The operational and maintenance environment management plans submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must be in accordance with the outline operational and
maintenance environment management plan, and developed having regard to the
approved CEMP(s) and the LEMP(s).

19.3

Operation of the authorised development must be implemented in accordance with
the submitted operational and maintenance environment management plan(s).

###### Decommissioning environmental management plan

20

20.1

The undertaker must, no later than six months prior to the planned permanent
cessation of operation of the authorised development, submit to the relevant
planning authorities for approval a DEMP.

20.2

The DEMP submitted under sub-paragraph (3) must include- the details required
by the demolition management plan and specifically including—

20.2.a

details of any below ground apparatus to be left in situ;

20.2.b

method statements for the decommissioning and dismantlement of above ground
infrastructure;

20.2.c

traffic management plan for the decommissioning works; and

20.2.d

waste management plan for the decommissioning works.

20.3

Decommissioning of the authorised development must be implemented in
accordance with the approved DEMP.

###### Written approval

21

Where under any of the requirements the approval or agreement of the relevant
planning authority or another person or authority is required, that approval
or agreement must be given in writing.

###### Amendments to approved details

22

22.1

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details approved by the relevant
planning authority or another discharging authority, the approved details must
be carried out as approved unless an application for an amendment or variation
is previously agreed, by the relevant planning authority or that other
discharging authority as specified in the relevant requirement, in accordance
with sub-paragraph (2) and in consultation with any body specified in the
relevant requirement.

22.2

No amendments to or variations from the approved details may be approved if
their likely significant effects on the environment are not assessed in the
environmental statement, or have not been subject to such further assessment
as the relevant planning authority or that other discharging authority may
require; provided that such approval must not be given except where it has
been demonstrated that the subject-matter of the approval sought is unlikely
to give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental
effects in comparison with the authorised development as approved (as
identified in the environmental statement).

22.3

The approved details must be taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved by the relevant planning authority or that other
discharging authority.

22.4

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), if a relevant planning authority which receives
an application for approval of any amendments to approved details under sub-
paragraph (1) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 56 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the undertaker and the
relevant authority, it is deemed to have granted consent.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

23

If, before the coming into force of this Order, the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps towards compliance with any provision of Part 1 of
this Schedule, those steps may be taken into account for the purpose of
determining compliance with that provision if they would have been valid steps
for that purpose had they been taken after this Order came into force.

##### Applications made under requirements

24

24.1

Where an application has been made to a discharging authority for any consent,
agreement or approval under a requirement, the discharging authority must give
notice to the undertaker of its decision on the application within a period of
56 days beginning with—

24.1.a

where no further information is requested under requirement 25, the day
immediately following that on which the application is received by the
authority;

24.1.b

where further information is requested under requirement 25, the day
immediately following that on which further information has been supplied by
the undertaker; or

24.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the undertaker and the
relevant authority.

24.2

In the event that the discharging authority does not determine an application
within the period set out in sub-paragraph (1), the discharging authority is
taken to have granted all parts of the application (without any condition or
qualification) at the end of that period unless otherwise agreed in writing.

###### Multiple discharging authorities

25

Where an application is required to be made to more than one discharging
authority for any single consent, agreement or approval under a requirement,
the undertaker may submit a request for comments in respect of its proposed
application to each discharging authority and, where it does so, each
discharging authority must provide its comments in writing on the proposed
application within a period of 20 days beginning with the day immediately
following that on which the request is received by the authority, or such
longer period as may be agreed in writing by the undertaker and the relevant
authority or authorities, so as to enable the undertaker to prepare a
consolidated application to each discharging authority in respect of the
consent, agreement or approval required by the requirement.

###### Further information

26

26.1

Where an application has been made under requirement 22 the discharging
authority may, subject to complying with the requirements of this paragraph,
request such reasonable further information from the undertaker as it
considers is necessary to enable it to consider the application.

26.2

If the discharging authority considers further information is necessary and
the requirement does not specify that consultation with a requirement
consultee is required, the discharging authority must, within 21 days of
receipt of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the
further information required.

26.3

If the requirement specifies that consultation with a requirement consultee is
required, the discharging authority must issue the consultation to the
requirement consultee within 10 days of receipt of the application and must
notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further information requested
by the requirement consultee within 10 days of receipt of such a request and
in any event within 21 days of receipt of the application.

26.4

If the discharging authority does not give the notification mentioned in sub-
paragraphs (2) or (3) or such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the
undertaker and the relevant authority, or otherwise fails to request any
further information within the timescales provided for in this paragraph, it
is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application and is
not thereafter entitled to request further information without the prior
agreement of the undertaker.

###### Fees

27

27.1

Where an application or a request for comments is made to a relevant planning
authority for any consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement, a
fee must be paid to the relevant planning authority as follows—

27.1.a

such fee as may be prescribed (under sections 303 and 333(2A) of the 1990 Act
for the discharge of conditions attached to a planning permission); or

27.1.b

a fee of £117 per application or request.

27.2

Any fee paid under this Schedule must be refunded to the undertaker within 35
days of—

27.2.a

the application or request being rejected as invalidly made; or

27.2.b

the relevant planning authority failing to determine the application or to
provide written comments within 56 days from the date on which the application
is received, or such longer period as may be agreed in writing under
requirement 23, unless within that period the undertaker agrees in writing
that the fee may be retained by the relevant planning authority and credited
in respect of a future application or a future request for comments.

###### Appeals

28

28.1

The undertaker may appeal if—

28.1.a

the discharging authority refuses an application for–

28.1.a.i

any consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement or any document
referred to in any requirement; or

28.1.a.ii

any other consent, agreement or approval required under this Order, or grants
it subject to conditions to which the undertaker objects;

28.1.b

having received a request for further information under requirement 25 the
undertaker considers that either the whole or part of the specified
information requested by the discharging authority is not necessary for
consideration of the application; or

28.1.c

having received any further information requested, the relevant authority
notifies the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and
requests additional information which the undertaker considers is not
necessary for consideration of the application.

28.2

The procedure for appeals is as follows—

28.2.a

the undertaker must submit to the Secretary of State, a copy of the
application submitted to the relevant authority and any supporting documents
which the undertaker may wish to provide (“the appeal documents”);

28.2.b

the undertaker must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documents to
the relevant authority and the requirement consultee (if applicable);

28.2.c

within 28 days of receiving the appeals documents the Secretary of State must
appoint a person to determine the appeal (“ the appointed person ”) and notify
the appeal parties of the identity of the appointed person and the address to
which all correspondence for the appointed person must be sent;

28.2.d

the discharging authority and the requirement consultee (if applicable) may
submit any written representations in respect of the appeal to the appointed
person within 10 business days beginning with the first day immediately
following the date on which the appeal parties are notified of the appointment
of the appointed person and must ensure that copies of their written
representations are sent to each other and to the undertaker on the day on
which they are submitted to the appointed person;

28.2.e

the appeal parties may make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within 10 business days beginning with the first day immediately following the
date of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-paragraph (d)
above; and

28.2.f

the appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable.

28.3

If the appointed person considers that further information is necessary to
consider the appeal, the appointed person must as soon as practicable notify
the appeal parties in writing specifying the further information required, the
appeal party from whom the information is sought, and the date by which the
information must be submitted.

28.4

Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph (3) must be
provided by the party from whom the information is sought to the appointed
person and to the other appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed
person.

28.5

The appeal parties may submit written representations to the appointed person
concerning matters contained in the further information.

28.6

Any such representations must be submitted to the appointed person and made
available to all appeal parties within 10 business days of the date mentioned
in sub-paragraph (3).

###### Outcome of appeals

29

29.1

On an appeal under requirement 28, the appointed person may—

29.1.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

29.1.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the discharging authority (whether
the appeal relates to that part of it or not), and may deal with the
application as if it had been made to the appointed person in the first
instance.

29.2

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account only such written representations as have been sent within the time
limits prescribed, or set by the appointed person under requirement 28. Been
made within those time limits if it appears to the appointed person that there
is sufficient material to enable a decision to be made on the merits of the
case.

29.3

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review within 6
weeks of the date of the appointed person’s decision.

29.4

Any consent, agreement or approval given by the appointed person pursuant to
this Schedule is deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Part 1 of
Schedule 2 (Requirements) as if it had been given by the discharging
authority.

29.5

The discharging authority may confirm any determination given by the appointed
person in identical form in writing but a failure to give such confirmation
(or a failure to give it in identical form) does not affect or invalidate the
effect of the appointed person’s determination.

29.6

Except where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (7) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the discharging authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

29.7

On application by the discharging authority or the undertaker, the appointed
person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and as to the
parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In considering whether
to make any such direction as to the costs of the appeal parties and the terms
on which it is made, the appointed person must have regard to the Planning
Practice Guidance: Appeals (March 2014) or any circular or guidance which may
from time to time replace it.

###### Interpretation

30

In this part;

      “ the appeal parties ” means the discharging authority, the requirement
consultee and the undertaker.           “ discharging authority ” means the
body responsible for giving a consent, agreement or approval   under this
schedule; and           “ requirement consultee ” means any body named in a
requirement which is the subject of an appeal as a body to be consulted by the
relevant authority in discharging that requirement.

  Streets subject to street works

##### Streets subject to permanent street works

Articles 10 and 11

      (1) Area (2) Streets subject to street works (3) Description of the
street works   In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Private roads being
Grinsome Road, Perimeter Road and Elton Lane, Ash Road and unnamed road off
Ash Road Works for the installation and maintenance of access for Work No. 3
between the points marked 1-AA on sheet 1a and the points marked 1-A and 1-B
and 1-C, 1-CC and 1-D on sheet 1 of the access rights of way plans In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Ince Lane Works for the installation and
maintenance of access for Work No. 5 between the points marked 2-G and 2-H on
sheet 2 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Private roads being unnamed road off Pool Lane Works for the
installation and maintenance of access for Work No. 10 between points marked
3-D and 3-E on sheet 3 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Wervin Road Works for the installation and
maintenance of access for Work No. 17 between points marked 7-D and 7-E on
sheet 7 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West
and Chester Station Road Works for the installation and maintenance of access
for Work Nos. 25 and 25A between points marked 10-AA and 10-BB on sheet 10 of
the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Sealand Road
Works for the installation and maintenance of access for Work Nos. 30 and 30B
between points marked 12-E and 12-F on sheet 12 of the access and rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire Deeside Lane Works for the installation
and maintenance of access for Work Nos. 30C and 31 between points marked 12-DD
on sheet 12 and 13-AA on sheet 13 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Private road off B5129 (Flint Road) Works for the
installation and maintenance of access for Work No. 31B between points marked
14-I and 14-J on sheet 14 of the access and rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Private road off Gladstone Way Works for the installation and
maintenance of access for Work Nos. 35 and 35A between points marked 16-M and
16-N on sheet 16 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Holywell Road Works for the installation and maintenance of access
for Work Nos. 41 and 41C between points marked 18-KK and 18-JJ on sheet 18 of
the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Alt-Goch Lane
Works for the installation and maintenance of access for Work Nos. 48 and 49
between points marked 22-K and 22-L on sheet 22 of the access and rights of
way plans

##### Streets subject to temporary street works

Article 10

      (1) Area (2) Streets subject to street works (3) Description of the
street works   In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester A5117 Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access and any
required visibility splays between points marked 2-I and 2-J on sheet 2 of the
access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
A5117 Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of
temporary access and any required visibility splays between points marked 3-G
and 3-H on sheet 3 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester B5132 (Cryers Lane) Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access and any required visibility
splays between points marked 4-A and 4-B on sheet 4 of the access and rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester B5132 (Cryers Lane)
Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access between points marked 4-E and 4-F on sheet 4 of the access and rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Thornton Green Lane
Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access between points marked 5-B and 5-C on sheet 5 of the access and rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Unnamed private track
off Halls Green Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and
restoration of temporary access between points marked 5-I and 5-J on sheet 5
of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Unnamed private track off Ince Lane Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 5-K and
5-L on sheet 5 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Picton Lane Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access and any required visibility
splays between points marked 6-F and 6-G on sheet 6 of the access and rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Picton Lane Works for
the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access and any
required visibility splays between points marked 7-F and 7-G on sheet 7 of the
access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Caughall Road and Croughton Road Works for the installation, use, maintenance
and restoration of temporary access between points marked 8-B and 8-C on sheet
8 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Chorlton Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and
restoration of temporary access between points marked 8-G and 8-H on sheet 8
of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Unnamed private track off Stanney Lane Works for the installation,
use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 8-L
and 8-M on sheet 8 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Chorlton Road Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of permanent access between points marked 8-N and
8-O on sheet 8 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester A41 (Liverpool Road) Works for the installation,
use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked
9-AA and 9-BB on sheet 9 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough
of Cheshire West and Chester Grove Road Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 10-C and
10-D on sheet 10 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Overwood Lane Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 10-K and
10-L on sheet 10 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Cheshire West and Chester Kingswood Lane (Byway Open to all Traffic
263/BY11/1) Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of
temporary access between points marked 11-E and 11-F on sheet 11 of the access
and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Sealand Road Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access and any
required visibility splays between points marked 13-E and 13-F on sheet 13 of
the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Flint Road
Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access and any required visibility splays between points marked 14-A and 14-B
on sheet 14 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Unnamed private tracks off Flint Road Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 14-F,
14-G and 14-H on sheet 14 of the access and rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Unnamed private tracks off Flint Road Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 14-HH on sheet 14 and 15-CC on sheet 15 of the access and rights
of way plans In the County of Flintshire Unnamed private tracks off Chester
Road Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access between points marked 15-A, 15-B, 15-C and 15-D on sheet 15 of the
access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Moor Lane Works for
the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 15-I and 15-J on sheet 15 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Unnamed private road off Chester Road Works for
the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 15-K and 15-L on sheet 15 of the access rights of way plans In
the County of Flintshire Chester Road Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 16-AA
and 16-BB on sheet 16 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Chester Road Works for the installation, use, maintenance and
restoration of temporary access between points marked 16-BB and 16-CC on sheet
16 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Chester Road
Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access between points marked 16-CC and 16-DD on sheet 16 of the access rights
of way plans In the County of Flintshire Unnamed private track off Colliery
Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access between points marked 16-H and 16-I on sheet 16 of the access rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire Colliery Lane Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 16-J and 16-K on sheet 16 of the access rights of way plans In
the County of Flintshire Lower Aston Hall Lane Works for the installation,
use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked
17-C and 17-D on sheet 17 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Lower Aston Hall Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance
and restoration of temporary access between points marked 17-EE and 17-FF on
sheet 17 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Church
Lane and unnamed private track off Old Aston Hill Works for the installation,
use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked
17-S on sheet 17 and 18-A on sheet 18 of the access rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Shotton Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance
and restoration of temporary access between points marked 18-B and 18-C on
sheet 18 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire B5125
(Holywell Road) Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration
of temporary access and any required visibility splays between points marked
18-G and 18-H on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Green Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and
restoration of temporary access and any required visibility splays between
points marked 18-R and 18-Q on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Pinfold Lane Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 19-A and
19-B on sheet 19 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Brookside Junction to B5125 Mini Roundabout Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 19-FF
and 19-GG on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Brookside Junction to B5125 Mini Roundabout Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 19-H and 19-I on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Brookside and Brookside Terrace Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 20-B, 20-C and 20-CC on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 20-DD and 20-EE on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Works for the
installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between
points marked 20-I and 20-J on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Works for the installation,
use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked
20-N and 20-O on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 20-R and
20-S on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Starkey Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and
restoration of temporary access between points marked 21-D and 21-E on sheet
21 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Cornist
Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration of temporary
access between points marked 25-E and 25-F on sheet 25 of the access rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire B5121 Works for the installation, use,
maintenance and restoration of temporary access between points marked 28-C and
28-D on sheet 28 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Racecourse Lane Works for the installation, use, maintenance and restoration
of temporary access between points marked 29-C and 29-D on sheet 29 of the
access rights of way plans

  New means of access

##### New permanent means of access from the public highway

Article 16

      (1) Area (2) Street (3) Description of relevant part of access   In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Wervin Road Works for the installation,
use and maintenance of a new access at a point marked 7-B on sheet 7 of the
access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Wervin Road Works for the installation, use and maintenance of a new access at
a point marked 7-C on sheet 7 of the access and rights of way plans In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Station Road Works for the installation,
use and maintenance of a new access at the point marked 10-A on sheet 10 of
the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Overwood Lane Works for the installation, use and maintenance of a new access
between points marked 11-A and 11-B on sheet 11 of the access and rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire Sealand Road Works for the installation,
use and maintenance of a new access at a point marked 12-C on sheet 12 of the
access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Lower Aston Hall
Lane Works for the installation, use and maintenance of a new access between
points marked 17-A and 17-B on sheet 17 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Church Lane Works for the installation, use and
maintenance of a new access at a point marked 17-NN on sheet 17 of the access
and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Station Road Works for the
installation, use and maintenance of a new access at a point marked 18-K on
sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Green Lane Works for the installation, use and maintenance of a new access at
a point marked 18-S on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Pinfold Lane Works for the installation, use and
maintenance of a new access at a point marked 19-C on sheet 19 of the access
and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Works
for the installation, use and maintenance of a new access between points
marked 20-T and 20-Q on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Alt-Goch Lane Works for the installation, use and
maintenance of a new access between points marked 22-G and 22-H on sheet 22 of
the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Cornist Lane
Works for the installation, use and maintenance of a new access between points
marked 25-G and 25-H on sheet 25 of the access rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire B5121 Works for the installation, use and maintenance of
a new access between points marked 28-A and 28-B on sheet 28 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Racecourse Lane Works for the
installation, use and maintenance of a new access between points marked 29-A
and 29-B on sheet 29 of the access rights of way plans

##### New temporary means of access from the public highway

Article 16

      (1) Area (2) Street (3) Description of relevant part of access   In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Picton Lane Works for the installation,
use, maintenance and restoration of temporary access at the point marked 7-AA
on sheet 7 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire
West and Chester Croughton Road Works for the installation, use, maintenance
and restoration of temporary access at the point marked 8-K on sheet 8 of the
access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Holywell Road Works for
the installation and maintenance of a new access at a point marked 18-J on
sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
B5125 (Village Road) Works for the installation and maintenance of a new
access at a point marked 20-E on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way
plans

##### New private means of access

Article 16 and 18

      (1) Area (2) Street (3) Description of relevant part of access   In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Private roads being Grinsome Road,
Perimeter Road and Elton Lane Access over existing private roads between the
points marked 1-AA on sheet 1a and the points marked 1-A and 1-B on sheet 1 of
the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Private roads being Ash Road and unnamed road off Ash Road Access over
existing private roads between the points marked 1-C, 1-CC and 1-D on sheet 1
of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Private roads being unnamed road off Ash Road Access over existing
field access at the point marked 1-E on sheet 1 of the access rights of way
plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Private roads being unnamed
road off Ash Road Access over a new access between the points marked 1-G to
1-H on sheet 1 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire
West and Chester Ince Lane Access over existing field access at the point
marked 2-A on sheet 2 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Pool Lane Access over existing private road between
the points marked 3-D and 3-E on sheet 3 of the access rights of way plans In
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester A5117 Access over existing field
access at the point marked 3-F on sheet 3 of the access rights of way plans In
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester B5132 (Cryers Lane) Access over
existing field access at the point marked 4-G on sheet 4 of the access rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Thornton Green Lane
Access over existing field access at the point marked 5-A on sheet 5 of the
access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Thornton Green Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked 5-D
on sheet 5 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West
and Chester B5132 (Cryers Lane) Access over existing field access at the point
marked 5-E on sheet 5 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Unnamed private track off Halls Green Lane Access
over existing field access at the point marked 5-F on sheet 5 of the access
rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Picton Lane
Access over existing field access at the point marked 6-H on sheet 6 of the
access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Unnamed
private track off Picton Lane Access over existing private road between the
points marked 6-I and 6-J on sheet 6 of the access rights of way plans In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Picton Lane Access over existing track
and field access at the point marked 7-A on sheet 7 of the access rights of
way plans In the County of Cheshire West and Chester Wervin Road Access over
new field access at the point marked 7-B on sheet 7 of the access rights of
way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Wervin Road Access over
new field access at the point marked 7-C on sheet 7 of the access rights of
way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Caughall Road and
Croughton Road Access over existing field access at the point marked 8-D on
sheet 8 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Chorlton Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked
8-E on sheet 8 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire
West and Chester Chorlton Lane Access over existing field access at the point
marked 8-F on sheet 8 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Chorlton Lane Access over existing field access
between the points marked 8-I and 8-J on sheet 8 of the access rights of way
plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester A41 (Liverpool Road) Access
over existing field access at the point marked 9-B on sheet 9 of the access
rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Station Road
Access over a new access at a point marked 10-A on sheet 10 of the access and
rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Station Road
Access over existing field access at the point marked 10-B on sheet 10 of the
access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester A41
(Liverpool Road) Access over existing field access at the point marked 10-E on
sheet 10 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Townfield Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked
10-H on sheet 10 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire
West and Chester Townfield Lane Access over existing field access at the point
marked 10-I on sheet 10 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Cheshire West and Chester Overwood Lane Access over existing field access at
the point marked 10-J on sheet 10 of the access rights of way plans In the
County of Cheshire West and Chester Overwood Lane Access over a new access
between points marked 11-A and 11-B on sheet 11 of the access and rights of
way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester A540 (Parkgate Road)
Access over existing field access at the point marked 11-D on sheet 11 of the
access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Hermitage Road Access over existing field access at the point marked 12-A on
sheet 12 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester Hermitage Road Access over existing field access at the point marked
12-B on sheet 12 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Sealand Road Access over a new access at a point marked 12-C on sheet 12 of
the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Deeside Lane
Access over existing private road between the point marked 12-D on sheet 12
and point 13-AA on sheet 13 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Deeside Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked
13-B on sheet 13 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Deeside Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked 13-C on
sheet 13 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Private
road off B5129 (Flint Road) Access over existing private road between the
points marked 14-C and 14-D on sheet 14 of the access rights of way plans In
the County of Flintshire Private road off B5129 (Flint Road) Access over new
field access between the points marked 14-D and 14-DD on sheet 14 of the
access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Chester Road Access
over existing field access at the point marked 15-C on sheet 15 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Moor Lane Access over existing
field access at the point marked 15-H on sheet 15 of the access rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire Unnamed private road off Chester Road Access
over existing private road and field access between the points marked 15-K and
15-M on sheet 15 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Unnamed private road off Chester Road Access over existing private road and
field access between the points marked 15-K and 15-N on sheet 15 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Chester Road Access over
existing field access at the point marked 16-B on sheet 16 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Chester Road Access over
existing field access at the point marked 16-C on sheet 16 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Willow Lane Access over
existing field access at the point marked 16-E on sheet 16 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Colliery Lane Access over
existing field access at the point marked 16-KK on sheet 16 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Gladstone Way Access over new
field access at the point marked 16-L on sheet 16 of the access rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire Lower Aston Hall Lane Access over a new
access between points marked 17-A and 17-B on sheet 17 of the access and
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Lower Aston Hall Lane Access
over existing field access at the point marked 17-E on sheet 17 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Church Lane Access over
private road between the points marked 17-N and 17-NN, and over new field
access at the point marked 17-NN on sheet 17 of the access rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Aston Hill Access over a new access at a point
marked 17-R on sheet 17 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Shotton Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked
18-D on sheet 18 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Shotton Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked 18-E on
sheet 18 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire B5125
(Holywell Road) Access over a new field access at the point marked 18-K on
sheet 18 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Green
Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked 18-L on sheet 18 of
the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Green Lane Access
over existing field access at the point marked 18-P on sheet 18 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Green Lane Access over new
field access at the point marked 18-S on sheet 18 of the access rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire Pinfold Lane Access over a new access at a
point marked 19-C on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Pinfold Lane Access over an existing access at a point
marked 19-CC on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Brookside Junction to B5125 Mini Roundabout Access over existing
access at a point marked 19-G on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire Brookside Access over existing access at a
point marked 20-A on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Brookside Terrace Access over existing access at a point
marked 20-D on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Access over a new access between points marked
20-T and 20-Q on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Access over existing field access at the
point marked 20-K on sheet 20 of the access rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Connah’s Quay Road Access over existing field access at the
point marked 20-L on sheet 20 of the access rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Connah’s Quay Road Access over existing field access at the
point marked 20-M on sheet 20 of the access rights of way plans In the County
of Flintshire Starkey Lane Access over existing field access at the point
marked 21-F on sheet 21 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Alt-Goch Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked
22-E on sheet 22 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Alt-Goch Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked 22-F on
sheet 22 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Alt-
Goch Lane Access over a new access between points marked 22-G and 22-H on
sheet 22 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Alt-Goch Lane Access over existing field access at the point marked 22-M on
sheet 22 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Cornist
Lane Access over new field access between points marked 25-G and 25-H on sheet
25 of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire B5121 Access
over new field access between points marked 28-A and 28-B on sheet 28 of the
access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Racecourse Lane Access
over new field access between points marked 29-A and 29-B on sheet 29 of the
access rights of way plans

  Streets to be temporarily closed or restricted

Article 15

      (1) Area (2) Street (3) Description of temporary stopping up etc.   In
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Private roads being Grinsome Road,
Perimeter Road and Elton Lane, Ash Road and unnamed road off Ash Road
Temporary full width closure to all traffic between the points marked 1-AA on
sheet 1a and the points marked 1-A and 1-B and 1-C, 1-CC and 1-D on sheet 1 of
the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Ince Lane Temporary closure of the verge and reduction in carriageway width
with traffic management measures between the points marked 2-G and 2-H on
sheet 2 of the access rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester A5117 Temporary closure of the verge and reduction in carriageway
width with traffic management measures between points marked 2-I and 2-J on
sheet 2 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West
and Chester Private roads being unnamed road off Pool Lane Temporary full
width closure to all traffic between points marked 3-D and 3-E on sheet 3 of
the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
A5117 Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management
measures between points marked 3-G and 3-H on sheet 3 of the access and rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester B5132 (Cryers Lane)
Partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between
points marked 4-A and 4-B on sheet 4 of the access and rights of way plans In
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester B5132 (Cryers Lane) Temporary full
width closure to all traffic between points marked 4-E and 4-F on sheet 4 of
the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Thornton Green Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points
marked 5-B and 5-C on sheet 5 of the access and rights of way plans In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Unnamed private track off Halls Green
Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points marked 5-I and
5-J on sheet 5 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Unnamed private track off Ince Lane Temporary full
width closure to all traffic between points marked 5-K and 5-L on sheet 5 of
the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
Picton Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points marked
6-F and 6-G on sheet 4 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Wervin Road Temporary partial width closure to all
traffic with traffic management measures between points marked 7-D and 7-E on
sheet 7 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West
and Chester Picton Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between
points marked 7-F and 7-G on sheet 7 of the access and rights of way plans In
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Caughall Road and Croughton Road
Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points marked 8-B and 8-C
on sheet 8 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire
West and Chester Chorlton Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic
between points marked 8-G and 8-H on sheet 8 of the access and rights of way
plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Unnamed farm track off
Stanney Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points marked
8-L and 8-M on sheet 8 of the access and rights of way plans In the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester Chorlton Road Temporary full width closure to all
traffic between points marked 8-N and 8-O on sheet 8 of the access and rights
of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester A41 Temporary partial
width closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between points
marked 9-AA and 9-BB on sheet 9 of the access and rights of way plans In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Station Road Temporary partial width
closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between points marked
10-AA and 10-BB on sheet 10 of the access and rights of way plans In the
Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Grove Road Temporary full width closure
to all traffic between points marked 10-C and 10-D on sheet 10 of the access
and rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester Overwood
Lane Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management
measures between points marked 10-K and 10-L on sheet 10 of the access and
rights of way plans In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester     Kingswood
Lane       (Byway Open to all Traffic 263/BY11/1)     Temporary full width
closure to all traffic between points marked 11-E and 11-F on sheet 11 of the
access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Sealand Road
Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management
measures between points marked 12-E and 12-F on sheet 12 of the access and
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Deeside Lane Temporary partial
width closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between points
marked 12-DD on sheet 12 and 13-AA on sheet 13 of the access and rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire Deeside Lane Temporary full width closure to
all traffic between points marked 13-A and 13-AA on sheet 13 of the access and
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Sealand Road Temporary partial
width closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between points
marked 13-E and 13-F on sheet 13 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Flint Road Temporary closure of the verge and reduction
in carriageway width with traffic management measures between points marked
14-A and 14-B on sheet 14 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Unnamed private tracks off Flint Road Temporary full width closure
to all traffic between points marked 14-F, 14-G and 14-H on sheet 14 of the
access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Private road off
B5129 (Flint Road) Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points
marked 14-I and 14-J on sheet 14 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Unnamed private tracks off Chester Road Temporary full
width closure to all traffic between points marked 14-HH on sheet 14 and 15-CC
on sheet 15 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire
Unnamed private tracks off Chester Road Temporary full width closure to all
traffic between points marked 15-A, 15-B and 15-C and 15-D on sheet 15 of the
access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Moor Lane Temporary
full width closure to all traffic between points marked 15-I and 15-J on sheet
15 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Unnamed
private road off Chester Road Temporary full width closure to all traffic
between points marked 15-K and 15-L on sheet 15 of the access rights  of way
plans  In the County of Flintshire Chester Road Temporary partial width
closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between points marked
16-AA and 16-BB on sheet 16 of the access rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Chester Road Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with
traffic management measures between points marked 16-BB and 16-CC on sheet 16
of the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Chester Road
Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management
measures between points marked 16-CC and 16-DD on sheet 16 of the access
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Unnamed private track off
Colliery Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points
marked 16-H and 16-I on sheet 16 of the access rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Colliery Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic
between points marked 16-J and 16-K on sheet 16 of the access rights of way
plans In the County of Flintshire Private road off Gladstone Way Temporary
full width closure to all traffic between points marked 16-M and 16-N on sheet
16 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Lower
Aston Hall Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points
marked 17-C and 17-D on sheet 17 of the access rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire Lower Aston Hall Lane Temporary closure of the verge and
reduction in carriageway width with traffic management measures between
points marked 17-EE and 17-FF on sheet 17 of the access rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Church Lane Temporary suspension of parking
between the points marked 17-N and 17-NN, on sheet 17 of the access rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire Church Lane and unnamed private track
off Old Aston Hill Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points
marked 17-S on sheet 17 and 18-A on sheet 18 of the access rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Shotton Lane Temporary full width closure to all
traffic between points marked 18-B and 18-C on sheet 18 of the access rights
of way plans In the County of Flintshire B5125 (Holywell Road) Temporary
partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between
points marked 18-G and 18-H on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Holywell Road Temporary partial width closure to
all traffic with traffic management measures between points marked 18-KK and
18-JJ on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire Green Lane Temporary full width closure to all traffic between
points marked 18-R and 18-Q on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans
In the County of Flintshire Pinfold Lane Temporary full width closure to all
traffic between points marked 19-A and 19-B on sheet 19 of the access and
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Brookside Junction to B5125
Mini Roundabout Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points
marked 19-FF and 19-GG on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans In
the County of Flintshire Brookside Junction to B5125 Mini Roundabout Temporary
full width closure to all traffic between points marked 19-H and 19-I on sheet
19 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Brookside
and Brookside Terrace Temporary full width closure to all traffic between
points marked 20-B, and 20-C and 20-CC on sheet 20 of the access and rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Temporary full
width closure to all traffic between points marked 20-DD and 20-EE on sheet 20
of the access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire B5125
(Village Road) Temporary full width closure to all traffic] between points
marked 20-I and 20-J on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Temporary partial width closure to
all traffic with traffic management measures between points marked 20-N and
20-O on sheet 20 of the access and rights of way plans In the County of
Flintshire B5125 (Village Road) Temporary full width closure to all traffic
between points marked 20-R and 20-S on sheet 20 of the access and rights of
way plans In the County of Flintshire Starkey Lane Temporary full width
closure to all traffic between points marked 21-D and 21-E on sheet 21 of the
access and rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Alt-Goch Lane
Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with traffic management
measures between points marked 22-K and 22-L on sheet 22 of the access and
rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Cornist Lane Temporary partial
width closure to all traffic with traffic management measures between points
marked 25-E and 25-F on sheet 25 of the access rights of way plans In the
County of Flintshire B5121 Temporary partial width closure to all traffic with
traffic management measures between points marked 28-C and 28-D on sheet 28 of
the access rights of way plans In the County of Flintshire Racecourse Lane
Temporary full width closure to all traffic between points marked 29-C and
29-D on sheet 29 of the access rights of way plans

  Public rights of way to be temporarily restricted and stopped up

Articles 13 and 14

##### Public rights of way to be temporarily restricted

      (1) Area (2) Public right of way (3) Extent of restriction (being
closure to all use)   In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester 123/FP3/1
Between the points marked 2-E and 2-F on sheet 2 of the access and rights of
way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the Borough of Cheshire West and
Chester 294/FP2/1 and 123/FPS/1 Between the points marked 4-H and 4-I, and 4-K
and 4-J on sheet 4 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed
orange line In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester 318/FP1/1 Between the
points marked 5-G and 5-H on sheet 5 of the access and rights of way plans
shown with a dashed orange line In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester
309/FP1/2 Between the points marked 6-A and 6-B on sheet 6 of the access and
rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the Borough of Cheshire
West and Chester 309/FP3/1 and 241/FP6/2 Between the points marked 6-C and 6-D
on sheet 6 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange
line In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester 211/FP4/1 Between the points
marked 10-F and 10-G on sheet 10 of the access and rights of way plans shown
with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 308/1 and
Footpath 307/3 Between the points marked 15-E and 15-F on sheet 15 of the
access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County
of Flintshire Footpath 308/1/10 Between the points marked 15-E and 15-G on
sheet 15 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line
In the County of Flintshire Footpath 308/4 and Footpath 303/44 Between the
points marked 15-O and 15-P on sheet 15 of the access and rights of way plans
shown with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Chester Road
Between the points marked 16-AA and 16-DD on sheet 16 of the access and rights
of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire
Footpath 303/32 Between the points marked 16-F and 16-G on sheet 16 of the
access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County
of Flintshire Footpath 303/30 Between the points marked 17-AA and 17-BB on
sheet 17 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line
In the County of Flintshire Footpath 303/34 Between the points marked 17-G and
17-H on sheet 17 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed
orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 303/26 Between the points
marked 17-J and 17-K on sheet 17 of the access and rights of way plans shown
with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 303/25 Between
the points marked 17-M and 17-MM on sheet 17 of the access and rights of way
plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath
303/22 and Footpath 303/24 Between the points marked 17-P and 17-Q on sheet 17
of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the
County of Flintshire Footpath 303/20 Between the points marked 18-I and 18-II
on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans shown In the County of
Flintshire Footpath 303/143 and Footpath 303/21 Between the points marked 18-J
and 18-T, 18-K and 18-L on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans
shown In the County of Flintshire Footpath 303/141 Between the points marked
18-M and 18-N on sheet 18 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a
dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 414/39 Between the
points marked 19-DD and 19-E on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans
shown with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 414/4
Between the points marked 20-F and 20-FF on sheet 20 of the access and rights
of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire
Footpath 414/2 Between the points marked 20-P on sheet 20 and 21-AA on sheet
21 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In
the County of Flintshire Footpath 414/1 Between the points marked 21-A and
21-B on sheet 21 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed
orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 404/70 Between the points
marked 22-A and 22-B on sheet 22 of the access and rights of way plans shown
with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath 404/68 Between
the points marked 22-B and 22-C on sheet 22 of the access and rights of way
plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County of Flintshire Footpath
404/66 Between the points marked 22-I and 22-J on sheet 22 of the access and
rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange line In the County of
Flintshire Footpath 404/39 Between the points marked 25-I and 25-J on sheet 25
of the access and rights of way plans shown with a dashed orange

##### Public rights of way to be stopped up

      Area (2) Public right of way (3) Extent of Stopping up (4) Alternative
route   In the County of Flintshire Footpath 414/39A Between the points marked
19-D and 19-DD on sheet 19 of the access and rights of way plans shown with a
dashed purple line Between the points marked 19-D and 19-DD on sheet 19 of the
access and rights of way plans

  Land of which only temporary possession may be taken

Article 34

##### Land of which only temporary possession may be taken

      (1) Area (2) Number of plot shown on land plans (3) Purpose for which
temporary possession may be taken (4) Relevant part of authorised development
Cheshire and Chester West 1-05 Temporary use as a construction working area
and for access (as part of Work No.3) Work Nos 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B 4 and 5
Cheshire and Chester West 1-06d Temporary use as a construction access (Work
No.3A) Work Nos 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B, 4 and 5 Cheshire and Chester West 1-08
Temporary use as a construction compound and working area (as part of Work
No.1A) Work Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 Cheshire and Chester West 1-16, 1-17
Temporary use as construction access (as part of Work No.3) Work Nos 1, 2, 3,
4 and 5 Cheshire and Chester West 2-02 Temporary use as a construction working
area and for access to facilitate construction (as part of Work No.5C) Work
Nos 2, 3, 4 and 5 Cheshire and Chester West 2-04 Temporary use as a
construction access (as part of Work No.5C) Work Nos 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Cheshire
and Chester West 2-07 Temporary use as a construction access (as part of Work
No.5A) Work Nos 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Cheshire and Chester West 2-11, 2-12
Temporary use a construction access (as part of Work No.5B) Work Nos 2, 3, 4,
5 and 6 Cheshire and Chester West 3-01 Temporary use as a construction access
(Work No. 6C) Work Nos 4, 5, 6, 7 and 11 Cheshire and Chester West 3-02
Temporary use as a construction compound and working area (as part of Work No.
6B) Work Nos 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 57A and 57B Cheshire and Chester West 4-01, 4-02
Temporary use as a construction compound and working area (as part of Work No.
6B) Work Nos 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 57A and 57B Cheshire and Chester West 4-03, 4-04
Temporary use for a construction access including visibility splay (as part of
Work No. 6D) Work Nos 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 57A and 57B Cheshire and Chester West
4-11 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No. 6E) Work Nos 4, 5, 6, 7,
11, 57A and 57B Cheshire and Chester West 5-03, 5-04 Temporary use as a
construction access (as part of Work No 12) Work Nos 11, 12, 13, 14, 57C and
57D Cheshire and Chester West 5-19, 5-21, 5-24, 5-25, 5-26, 6-11, 6-13
Temporary use for access and peat storage Work Nos 13, 13A, 14, 57E and 57F
Cheshire and Chester West 6-20 Temporary use as a construction compound and
working area (as part of Work No. 15A) Work Nos 14, 15 and 16 Cheshire and
Chester West 6-21 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No.15B) Work
Nos 14, 15 and 16 Cheshire and Chester West 7-02, 7-02a, 7-03b Temporary use
as a construction access (Work No.16B) Work No. 16A Cheshire and Chester West
7-10 Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work No. 17) Work No. 17
Cheshire and Chester West 8-02 Temporary use as a construction working are and
access (Work No. 18A) Work Nos. 17, 18, 19, 19A, 20 and 21 Cheshire and
Chester West 8-06, 8-08 Temporary use as a construction working area (Work No.
18) Work Nos. 18, 19, 19A, 20 and 21 Cheshire and Chester West 8-09 Temporary
use as a construction access, compound and working area (Work Nos.19A and 19B)
Work Nos. 17, 18, 19, 19A, 20 and 21 Cheshire and Chester West 8-14 Temporary
use as a construction access (Work No. 19C) Work Nos. 20 and 21 Cheshire and
Chester West 9-02, 9-05, 9-06, 9-08, 9-11, 9-13 Temporary use as a
construction access and working area (as part of Work No. 22) Work Nos. 19,
22, 23, 24 and 57G Cheshire and Chester West 9-18 Temporary use as a
construction access (Work No. 23A) Work Nos. 19, 22, 23 and 24 Cheshire and
Chester West 9-20 Temporary use as a construction access and working area (as
part of Work No. 23B) Work Nos. 22, 23 and 24 Cheshire and Chester West 9-23
Temporary use as a construction access (as part of Work No.24A) Work Nos. 24
and 25 Cheshire and Chester West 10-04a Temporary possession for traffic
management Work No. 25 Cheshire and Chester West 10-14 10-15 Temporary use as
a construction access (as part of Work No.25) Work Nos. 25, 26, 27, 28
Cheshire and Chester West 10-17 Temporary use as a construction access (Work
No.28A) Work Nos. 25, 26, 26A, 27, 28, 28A, 28B Cheshire and Chester West
10-19 Temporary use as a construction access and working area (as part of Work
Nos.25, 26, 26A and 27 Work Nos. 25, 26, 26A, 27 and 28 Cheshire and Chester
West 11-01, 11-02 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No.28A) Work
Nos. 25, 26, 26A, 27, 28, 28A, 28B Flintshire 12-12a, 12-13 Temporary use as a
construction compound and working area (as part of Work Nos. 29A and 30A) Work
Nos. 28, 29. 29A, 30 and 30A Flintshire 12-15, 12-16, 12-17 Temporary use as a
construction access (Works No.30 and 30A) Work Nos. 28, 29, 29A, 30 and 30A
Flintshire 13-14, 13-16 Temporary use as a construction compound and working
area (as part of Work No. 30D) Work Nos. 30 and 31 Flintshire 13-19 Temporary
use as a construction access (as part of Work No.30E) Work Nos. 30 and 31
Flintshire 14-01 Temporary use as a construction compound and working area (as
part of Work No. 30D) Work Nos. 30 and 31 Flintshire 14-14 Temporary use as a
construction compound and working area (as part of Work Nos. 31A and 31B) Work
Nos. 30, 31, 32 and 33 Flintshire 14-23, 14-24, 14-25, 14-26, 14-27 Temporary
use as a construction access and working area (as part of Work No. 31B) Work
Nos. 30, 31, 31A, 32 and 33 Flintshire 14-30a, 15-01a Temporary use as a
construction access (as part of Work No.33) Work No. 33 Flintshire 15-02
Temporary use as a construction access and working area (as part of Work
No.33) Work Nos.32, 33 and 33A Flintshire 16-01, 16-06, 16-06a, 16-07, 16-08,
16-09, 16-11 Temporary use as a construction access and working area, and for
diversion of public right of way and watercourse (as part of Work No. 34) Work
Nos. 33 and 34 Flintshire 16-17 Temporary use as a working area (as part of
Work No. 34) Work Nos. 34 and 35 Flintshire 16-28 Temporary use as a
construction working area and access (Work No.35) Work Nos. 35, 36, 36A and 37
Flintshire 17-05 Temporary use as a construction access and working area (as
part of Work Nos. 35 and 36A) Work Nos. 35, 36, 36A and 37 Flintshire 17-09,
17-10 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No.38A) Work Nos. 35, 36,
36A and 37 Flintshire 17-11 Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work
No. 38) Work Nos. 37 and 38 Flintshire 17-16 Temporary use as a construction
working area and access (as part of Work No.39B) Work Nos. 38, 39, 40 and 57H
Flintshire 17-31 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No.39A) Work
Nos. 39, 40 and 57H Flintshire 17-35, 17-37, 17-38 Temporary use as a
construction access and working area (Work No. 40A) Work Nos. 39, 40 and 57H
Flintshire 18-01 Temporary use as a working area, access and public right of
way diversion (as part of Work No. 40B) Work Nos.40, 41 and 57I Flintshire
18-13 Temporary use as a construction compound, working area and access (as
part of Work Nos. 41A and 41B) Work Nos. 40, 41, 42 and 57I Flintshire 18-16,
18-17 Temporary use as a construction access and visibility splay (as part of
Work No.41B) Work Nos. 40, 41, 42 and 57I Flintshire 19-04c Temporary use as a
working area (as part of Work No. 43D) Work Nos. 42, 43, 57J and 57K
Flintshire 20-07 Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work No. 44) Work
Nos. 44 and 57L Flintshire 20-10, 20-10a Temporary use as a construction
access (as part of Work No.44B) Work Nos. 44, 44A, 45, 46, 57L and 57M
Flintshire 20-16, 20-17 Temporary use as a construction access (as part of
Work No.46) Work Nos. 44, 44A, 45 and 46 Flintshire 20-19b Temporary use as a
construction access (as part of Work No.45) Work Nos. 44, 45 and 45B
Flintshire 20-20 Temporary use as a construction compound and working area (as
part of Work Nos. 44C and 45A) Work Nos. 44, 44A, 45, 46, 57L and 57M
Flintshire 21-03 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No.47A) Work No.
47 Flintshire 21-07 Temporary use as a construction access (Work No.47B) Work
No. 47 and 48 Flintshire 22-02 Temporary use as a working area and access (as
part of Work No. 47) Work Nos. 47 and 48 Flintshire 22-04 Temporary use for
and to construct an access (Work No.49) Work No. 47, 48 and 49 Flintshire
25-03, 25-07, 25-08, 25-09 Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work
Nos. 51a, 51B and 52) Work Nos. 51, 51A and 52 Flintshire 27-02, 28-01
Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work Nos. 53A and 53B) Work Nos.
53, 53A and 54 Flintshire 28-02 Temporary use for and to construct an access
(Work No.54) Work Nos. 53, 53A and 54 Flintshire 29-01 Temporary use for and
to construct an access (Work No.56) Work Nos. 55, 55A and 56 Flintshire 29-02
Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work No. 55B) Work Nos. 55, 55A
and 56 Flintshire 29-06 Temporary use as a working area (as part of Work Nos.
55A and 55B) Work Nos. 55, 55A and 56

##### Land of which only temporary possession for access may be taken

      (1) Area (2) Number of plot shown on land plans (3) Purpose for which
temporary possession may be taken (4) Relevant part of authorised development
Cheshire and Chester West 2-06 Temporary use for access (as part of Work
No.5A) Work Nos 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Cheshire and Chester West 9-24, 9-25
Temporary use as a construction access (as part of Work No.24A) Work Nos. 24
and 25 Flintshire 13-13, 13-15, 13-17, 13-18, 14-02, 14-03 Temporary use as a
construction access (as part of Work No.30E) Work Nos. 30, 30D 31, 31A, 32 and
33 Flintshire 17-34 Temporary use for access (as part of Work No.40) Work Nos.
39, 39A, 40, 40A, 41, 57H and 57I Flintshire 19-06 Temporary use as a
construction access (as Work No.43C) Work Nos. 42, 43, 44, 57J and 57K

  Land in which only new rights etc., may be acquired

Article 26

      (1) Number of plot shown on land plans (2) Purpose for which rights may
be acquired       1-01       1-01a       1-02       1-03       1-04       1-06
1-06a       1-06b       1-06c       1a-01       1a-02       1a-03       1a-04
12-21       13-01       13-02       13-03       13-04       13-05       13-06
13-10       13-11       14-21       14-22         1. Rights for the purposes
of the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning
of the authorised development to—       (a) pass and re-pass with or without
vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for the
purposes of laying down, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using,
maintaining, repairing, renewing, inspecting, removing and replacing the
authorised development, the inspection, testing, maintenance, renewal,
upgrading, replacement and removal of the pipeline and connection into any
adjacent pipeline and associated works, to take plant and equipment on to
adjoining land;       (b) make such investigations in or on the Land which is
ancillary for the purposes of exercise of the rights;       (c) use, maintain
and improve a means of access including visibility splays, and retain,
maintain, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access routes for the
purposes of accessing the Land, adjoining land and highway;       (d) install,
alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust, operate or remove pipes, cables or
conduits or apparatus including but not limited to electricity poles,
electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus, public
and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media
(including the pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers
and pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus to serve the authorised
development);       (e) construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access
roads or road surfacing including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate,
trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting or
diversion of water courses and drains during any period during which
construction, maintenance, repair or renewal of any drainage work is being
carried out;       (f) install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation
works for environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement works,
including temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; and       (g) carry
out such works (together with associated fencing) required by a planning
permission and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land in accordance
with any necessary licences relating to protected species and/or wildlife.
2. A restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of
the Order land to prevent anything being done which may interfere with free
flow and passage of carbon dioxide along the pipeline or telecommunications
through the cables ancillary to the pipeline, or support for the authorised
development.         3-04       3-05       3-06       3-07       3-08
3-09       3-10         1. Rights for the purposes of the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
development to—       (h) pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant,
machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for the purposes of laying down,
installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining, repairing,
renewing, inspecting, removing and replacing the authorised development, the
inspection, testing, maintenance, renewal, upgrading, replacement and removal
of the pipeline and connection into any adjacent pipeline and associated
works, to take plant and equipment on to adjoining land;       (i) make such
investigations in or on the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of
exercise of the rights;       (j) maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the Land,
adjoining land and highway;       (k) install, alter, re-lay, maintain,
protect, adjust, operate or remove pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus
including but not limited to electricity poles, electricity pylons,
electricity masts, overhead electricity lines, telecommunications cables and
any ancillary equipment and apparatus, public and private drains, connections
to watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media (including the
pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers and pipes,
cables or conduits or apparatus to serve the authorised development);
(l) remove and discharge water from the Land and to install, retain, use,
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and
improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains, conduits, flues and to drain into
and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts, to lay down,
install, adjust, alter, construct, create, use, maintain, repair, renew,
upgrade, inspect, remove and replace a drainage scheme on the Land (the
“drainage works”);       (m) inspect, use mechanical excavation (including
directional drilling and/or digging), reinstate, remove, move or alter such
part or parts of any drainage system on the Land for the purposes of the
drainage works (including connecting the drainage works to any land drain as
at the date of the drainage works);       (n) place and use plant, machinery,
structures and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect temporary
signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety
for the purposes of the drainage works;       (o) make such investigations in
or on the Land as required for the purposes of the drainage works;       (p)
use or resort to trenchless installation techniques including (but not limited
to) directional drilling in connection with the drainage works;       (q)
erect fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure, and create
secure works areas or compounds including temporary trenchless installation
technique compounds and working areas for the purposes of the drainage works;
(r) construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any
necessary hard standing and other surface materials including (but not limited
to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary
bridging, culverting or diversion of water courses and drains during any
period during which construction, maintenance, repair or renewal of any
drainage work is being carried out;       (s) fell, lop or cut, coppice wood,
uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which now or hereafter may be standing on the
Land or other land which would if not felled, lopped, cut or removed obstruct
or interfere with the drainage works;       (t) retain, repair, improve,
renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, shrubs, and hedgerows, to effect
landscaping works and other environmental and ecological measures together
with the right to maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and
landscaping;       (u) install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation
works for environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement works,
including temporary works for noise alleviation measures and the installation
of temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; and       (v) carry out
such works (together with associated fencing) required by a planning
permission and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land in accordance
with any necessary licences relating to protected species and/or wildlife.
2. A restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of
the Order land to:       (w) prevent any activity being undertaken on the Land
which would interfere with the vertical or lateral support of the Pipeline;
(x) prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow and passage
of carbon dioxide along the pipeline or telecommunications through the cables
ancillary to the pipeline, or support for the authorised development;
(y) prevent, without the written consent of the undertaker, the carrying out
operations or actions (including but not limited to blasting and piling) which
may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the rights or
damage the authorised development; and       (z) prevent any activity which
would in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker result in the disturbance of
the drainage works, ecological mitigation areas or areas of habitat creation
including any ploughing or grazing without the prior written consent of the
undertaker.         1-21       2-02a       2-04a       5-08       6-27
7-02b       7-03       7-03a       11-07       12-04       12-06       14-11
14-14a       14-20       15-02a       15-09       15-10       15-14
16-28a       16-29       16-30       17-17       17-18       17-19       20-09
1. Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—       (aa)
pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus,
equipment and materials for the purposes of laying down, installing,
adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining, repairing, renewing,
inspecting, removing and replacing the authorised development, the inspection,
testing, maintenance, renewal, upgrading, replacement and removal of the
pipeline and connection into any adjacent pipeline and associated works, to
take plant and equipment on to adjoining land;       (bb) make such
investigations in or on the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of
exercise of the rights;       (cc) maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the Land,
adjoining land and highway; effect access to the highway including to
construct, use, maintain and improve a permanent means of access including
visibility splays, and retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the Land,
adjoining land and highway;       (dd) install, alter, re-lay, maintain,
protect, adjust, operate or remove pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus
including but not limited to electricity poles, electricity pylons,
electricity masts, overhead electricity lines, telecommunications cables and
any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and private drains, watercourses,
sewers, ponds or culverts, service media (including the pipes, cables or
conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers and pipes, cables or conduits
or apparatus to serve the authorised development);       (ee) remove and
discharge water from the Land and to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect,
alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve sewers,
drains, pipes, ducts, mains, conduits, flues and to drain into and manage
waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts, to lay down, install,
adjust, alter, construct, create, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade,
inspect, remove and replace a drainage scheme on the Land (the “drainage
works”);       (ff) inspect, use mechanical excavation (including directional
drilling and/or digging), reinstate, remove, move or alter such part or parts
of any drainage system on the Land for the purposes of the drainage works
(including connecting the drainage works to any land drain as at the date of
the drainage works);       (gg) place and use plant, machinery, structures and
temporary structures within the Land, and to erect temporary signage and
provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety for the
purposes of the drainage works;       (hh) make such investigations in or on
the Land as required for the purposes of the drainage works;       (ii) use or
resort to trenchless installation techniques including (but not limited to)
directional drilling in connection with the drainage works;       (jj) erect
fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure, and create secure
works areas or compounds including temporary trenchless installation technique
compounds and working areas for the purposes of the drainage works;       (kk)
construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any
necessary hard standing and other surface materials including (but not limited
to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary
bridging, culverting or diversion of water courses and drains during any
period during which construction, maintenance, repair or renewal of any
drainage work is being carried out;       (ll) fell, lop or cut, coppice wood,
uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which now or hereafter may be standing on the
Land or other land which would if not felled, lopped, cut or removed obstruct
or interfere with the drainage works;       (mm) install, execute, implement,
retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland,
shrubs, hedgerows, seeding, to effect landscaping works and other
environmental and ecological measures together with the right to maintain,
inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping;       (nn) install,
execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate, maintain and
carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for environmental or
ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including temporary works for
noise alleviation measures and the installation of temporary barriers for the
protection of fauna; and       (oo) carry out such works (together with
associated fencing) required by a planning permission and/or consent now or to
be granted over the Land in accordance with any necessary licences relating to
protected species and/or wildlife.       2. A restrictive covenant over the
Land for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to:       (pp) prevent
any activity being undertaken on the Land which would interfere with the
vertical or lateral support of the Pipeline;       (qq) prevent anything being
done which may interfere with free flow and passage of carbon dioxide along
the pipeline or telecommunications through the cables ancillary to the
pipeline, or support for the authorised development;       (rr) prevent
carrying out operations or actions (including but not limited to blasting and
piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the
rights or damage the authorised development; and       (ss) prevent any
activity which would in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker result in the
disturbance of the drainage works, ecological mitigation areas or areas of
habitat creation including any ploughing or grazing without the prior written
consent of the undertaker.         6-07       6-08       6-09         1.
Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—       (tt)
pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus,
equipment and materials for the purposes of laying down, installing,
adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining, repairing, renewing,
inspecting, removing and replacing the authorised development, the inspection,
testing, maintenance, renewal, upgrading, replacement and removal of the
pipeline and connection into any adjacent pipeline and associated works, to
take plant and equipment on to adjoining land;       (uu) make such
investigations in or on the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of
exercise of the rights;       (vv) maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the Land,
adjoining land and highway; effect access to the highway including to
construct, use, maintain and improve a permanent means of access including
visibility splays, and retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the Land,
adjoining land and highway;       (ww) place and use plant, machinery,
structures and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect temporary
signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety
for the purposes of the drainage works;       (xx) erect fencing, gates,
walls, barriers or other means of enclosure, and create secure works areas or
compounds including temporary trenchless installation technique compounds and
working areas for the purposes of the drainage works;       (yy) construct,
lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any necessary hard
standing and other surface materials including (but not limited to) matting,
aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting
or diversion of water courses and drains during any period during which
construction, maintenance, repair or renewal of any drainage work is being
carried out;       (zz) fell, lop or cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges
or shrubs which now or hereafter may be standing on the Land or other land
which would if not felled, lopped, cut or removed obstruct or interfere with
the drainage works;       (aaa) remove and relocate trees, shrubs, hedgerows,;
(bbb) install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate,
maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for
environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including
temporary works for noise alleviation measures and the installation of
temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; and       (ccc) carry out such
works (together with associated fencing) required by a planning permission
and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land in accordance with any
necessary licences relating to protected species and/or wildlife.       2. A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow
and passage of carbon dioxide along the pipeline or telecommunications through
the cables ancillary to the pipeline, or support for the authorised
development.     28-03     1. Rights for the purposes of the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
development to—       (ddd) pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant,
machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for the purposes of laying down,
installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining, repairing,
renewing, inspecting, removing and replacing the authorised development, the
inspection, testing, maintenance, renewal, upgrading, replacement and removal
of the pipeline and connection into any adjacent pipeline and associated
works, to take plant and equipment on to adjoining land;       (eee) make such
investigations in or on the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of
exercise of the rights;       (fff) place and use plant, machinery, structures
and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect temporary signage and
provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety for the
purposes of the drainage works;       (ggg) erect fencing, gates, walls,
barriers or other means of enclosure, and create secure works areas or
compounds including temporary trenchless installation technique compounds and
working areas for the purposes of the drainage works;       (hhh) install,
alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust, operate or remove pipes, cables or
conduits or apparatus including but not limited to electricity poles,
electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and
private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media
(including the pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers
and pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus to serve the authorised
development);       (iii) construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access
roads including any necessary hard standing and other surface materials
including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone,
tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting or diversion of water
courses and drains during any period during which construction, maintenance,
repair or renewal of any drainage work is being carried out;       (jjj)
install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate
and plant trees, woodland, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding, to effect landscaping
works and other environmental and ecological measures together with the right
to maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping;
(kkk) install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate,
maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for
environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including
temporary works for noise alleviation measures and the installation of
temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; and       (lll) carry out such
works (together with associated fencing) required by a planning permission
and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land in accordance with any
necessary licences relating to protected species and/or wildlife.       2. A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to:       (mmm) prevent any activity being undertaken on the Land
which would interfere with the vertical or lateral support of the Pipeline;
(nnn) prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow and
passage of carbon dioxide along the pipeline or telecommunications through the
cables ancillary to the pipeline, or support for the authorised development;
(ooo) prevent carrying out operations or actions (including but not limited to
blasting and piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the
exercise of the rights or damage the authorised development; and       (ppp)
prevent any activity which would in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker
result in the disturbance of the ecological or environmental mitigation areas
without the prior written consent of the undertaker.         9-04       16-03a
1. Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to pass and re-
pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and
materials for the purposes of surveying or investigating the land.       2. A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to:       (qqq) prevent any activity being undertaken on the Land
which would interfere with the vertical or lateral support of the Pipeline;
(rrr) prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow and
passage of carbon dioxide along the pipeline or telecommunications through the
cables ancillary to the pipeline, or support for the authorised development;
and       (sss) prevent carrying out operations or actions (including but not
limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere
with the exercise of the rights or damage the authorised development.

  Modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights

Article 26

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply as respects compensation for the compulsory purchase of
land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the following modification-

2.2

For section 5A (5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.a

(5A) If—

2.2.a.i

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the Compulsory
Purchase Act 1965 (as modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 9 to the HyNet
Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024).

2.2.a.ii

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as
substituted by paragraph 4(8) of Schedule 9 to the HyNet Carbon Dioxide
Pipeline Order 2024) to acquire an interest in the land; and

2.2.a.iii

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land, the
authority is deemed for the purposes of sub-section (3)(a) to have entered on
that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the Land Compensation Act
1973  has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3) of this
Schedule—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable.”

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

4.1

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 33 (modification of Part
1 of the 1965 Act) to the acquisition of land under article 25 (compulsory
acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition of a right by the
creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a restrictive covenant under
article 27 (compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants)—

4.1.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.1.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land);

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure that,
where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of any
right or restriction, as well as the notice of entry required by sub-section
(1) of that section (as it applies to a compulsory acquisition), it has power,
exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions,
to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that
restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of entry: further notices of
entry), 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified
date), 12 (unauthorised entry) and 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring
authority) of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 32(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  Counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat

Section 8

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or
part of a house, building or factory and have not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act as
applied by article 30 (application of the 1981 Act) of the HyNet Carbon
Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024 in respect of the land to which the notice to
treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 31 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the HyNet
Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Order 2024 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil
or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.1.3

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.2

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.3

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.4

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.4.a

withdraw the notice to treat;

5.8.4.b

accept the counter-notice; or

5.8.4.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.5

The authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

5.8.6

If the authority decide to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal they
must do so within the decision period.

5.8.7

If the authority do not serve notice of a decision within the decision period
it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision to withdraw the
notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.8

If the authority serve notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice, the
compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.9

On a referral under paragraph (6), the Upper Tribunal must determine whether
the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant
would—

5.8.9.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory; or

5.8.9.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.10

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.10.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant;

5.8.10.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed; and

5.8.10.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.11

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 9, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.13

5.8.13.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of six weeks beginning with the
day on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.13.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

5.8.14

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

  Protective provisions

Article 42

##### Protection for electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers

1

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question.

2

In this Part—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means—
in the case of a utility undertaker within paragraph (a) of the definition of
that term, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by that licence holder;           in the
case of a utility undertaker within paragraph (b) of the definition of that
term, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that
gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986  for the
purposes of gas supply;           in the case of a utility undertaker within
paragraph (c) of the definition of that term, mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by that water undertaker for the purposes of water
supply; and           in the case of a utility undertaker within paragraph (d)
of the definition of that term—         any drain or works vested in the
sewerage undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and           any
sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt
given under section 102(4) (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act
or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 (agreements to adopt sewer,
drain or sewerage disposal works, at future date) of that Act ,         and
includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219
(general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes,
ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer,
drain or works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be
lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus;                 “
functions ” includes powers and duties;           “in” in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;           “ plan
” includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and           “ utility undertaker ” means—         any licence
holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;           a
gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;           a
water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and
a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act
1991,           for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to
any apparatus, means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it
is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Acquisition of land

4

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

5

5.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part, and any right of a utility
undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be extinguished
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question.

5.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed; and in that case (or if
in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

5.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

5.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as
may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and the undertaker or
in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 47
(arbitration).

5.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 47 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part.

5.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work, in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

5.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

6

6.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
utility undertaker in question or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration).

6.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus to
be constructed in or along the authorised development, the arbitrator must—

6.2.a

give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus that
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker; and

6.2.b

so far as it may be reasonable and practicable to do so in the circumstances
of the particular case, give effect to the terms and conditions, if any,
applicable to the apparatus constructed in or along the authorised project for
which the alternative apparatus is to be substituted.

6.3

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

7

7.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 5(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

7.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

7.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under
sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

7.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, the provisions of this Part apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 5(2).

7.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

7.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (2)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

8

8.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker the reasonable expenses agreed with the
undertaker in advance and reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in
paragraph 5(2).

8.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part must be
deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that value being
calculated after removal.

8.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

8.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

8.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration) to be necessary then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part
exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been
of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the
case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable
to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

8.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

8.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

8.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

8.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 5(2) any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility
undertaker, the undertaker must—

9.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

9.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

9.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

9.3

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the undertaker has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Miscellaneous

10

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility undertaker in
respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### Protection for operators of electronic communications code networks

11

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the operator in question.

12

In this Part—

      “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;           “
electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code;           “ the electronic communications code
” has the same meaning as in section 106  (application of the electronic
communications code) of the 2003 Act;           “ electronic communications
code network ” means—         so much of an electronic communications network
or infrastructure system provided by an electronic communications code
operator as is not excluded from the application of the electronic
communications code by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and
an electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide;                 “ electronic communications code
operator ” means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is
applied by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act;           “
infrastructure system ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code and references to providing an infrastructure system are
to be construed in accordance with paragraph 7 (infrastructure system) of that
code; and           “ operator ” means the operator of an electronic
communications code network.

13

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 36 (statutory undertakers) are
subject to Part 10 (undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

14

14.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as a result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from the
authorised development—

14.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the authorised
development), or other property of an operator; or

14.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost agreed by the undertaker in advance
and reasonably incurred by the operator in making good such damage or
restoring the supply and make reasonable compensation to that operator for any
other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by it by reason, or
in consequence of, any such damage or interruption.

14.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

14.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the
undertaker has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

14.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 47 (arbitration).

14.5

This Part does not apply to—

14.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

14.5.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised project.

14.6

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator in respect of
any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this
Order is made.

##### For the protection of National Grid Electricity Transmission plc as electricity undertaker

###### Application

15

15.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

15.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article 7 (benefit of Order)—

15.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

15.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

15.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Grid (but without prejudice to paragraph 25(3)(b) of
this Part of this Schedule).

###### Interpretation

16

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991;           “
acceptable credit provider ” means a bank or financial institution with a
credit rating that is not lower than: (i) “A-” if the rating is assigned by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group or Fitch Ratings; and “A3” if the rating is
assigned by Moody’s Investors Services Inc.;           “ acceptable insurance
” means general third party liability insurance effected and maintained by the
undertaker with a combined property damage and bodily injury limit of
indemnity of not less than £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) per
occurrence or series of occurrences arising out of one event. Such insurance
shall be maintained for the duration of the construction period of the
authorised works; and (b) after the construction period of the authorised
works in respect of any use and maintenance of the authorised development by
or on behalf of the undertaker which constitute specified works and arranged
with an insurer whose security/credit rating meets the same requirements as an
“acceptable credit provider”, such insurance shall include (without
limitation):         a waiver of subrogation and an indemnity to principal
clause in favour of National Grid;           pollution liability for third
party property damage and third party bodily damage arising from any
pollution/contamination event with a (sub)limit of indemnity of not less than
£10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per occurrence or series of occurrences
arising out of one event or £20,000,000.00 (twenty million pounds) in
aggregate;                 “ acceptable security” means either—         a
parent company guarantee from a parent company in favour of National Grid to
cover the undertaker’s liability to National Grid to a total liability cap of
£50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) (in a form reasonably satisfactory to
National Grid and where required by National Grid, accompanied with a legal
opinion confirming the due capacity and authorisation of the parent company to
enter into and be bound by the terms of such guarantee); or           a bank
bond or letter of credit from an acceptable credit provider in favour of
National Grid to cover the undertaker’s liability to National Grid for an
amount of not less than £10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per asset per
event up to a total liability cap of £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) (in
a form reasonably satisfactory to National Grid);                 “
alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus
” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by National Grid, together with any
replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to the
Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of
transmission, distribution and/or supply and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus;           “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to
the term “authorised development” in article 2(1) of this Order and includes
any ancillary works as defined in article 2(1) of this Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“commence” and “commencement” in this Part of this Schedule shall include any
below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and
erection of construction plant and equipment;           “ deed of consent ”
means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of
grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to
secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule;           “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary
measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event;           “ ground monitoring
scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the
apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be
monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the
timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence
which, if exceeded, shall require the undertaker to submit for National Grid’s
approval a ground mitigation scheme;           “ ground subsidence event ”
means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in
the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the
ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;
“in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land
includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over,
across, along or upon such land;           “ Incentive Deduction ” means any
incentive deduction National Grid Electricity Transmission plc receives under
its electricity transmission licence which is caused by an event on its
transmission system that causes electricity not to be supplied to a demand
customer and which arises as a result of the authorised works;
“maintain” and “maintenance” shall include the ability and right to do any of
the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of
National Grid: construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus;           “ National Grid ” means National Grid Electricity
Transmission Plc (company number 2366977) whose registered office is at 1-3
Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor as a licence holder within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;           “ NGESO ” means as
defined in the STC;           “ parent company ” means a parent company of the
undertaker acceptable to and which shall have been approved by National Grid
acting reasonably;           “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed;           “
specified works ” means any of the authorised works or activities undertaken
in association with the authorised works which         will or may be situated
over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 21(2)
or otherwise; and/or           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
21(2) or otherwise; and/or           includes any of the activities that are
referred to in National Grid’s document “Development near overhead lines”
EN43-8 and the Health and Safety Executive’s (HSE) Guidance Note GS6 “Avoiding
Danger from Overhead Power Lines”;           “ STC ” means the System Operator
Transmission Owner Code prepared by the electricity Transmission Owners and
NGESO as modified from time to time;           “ STC Claims ” means any claim
made under the STC against National Grid Electricity Transmission plc arising
out of or in connection with the de-energisation (whereby no electricity can
flow to or from the relevant system through the generator or interconnector’s
equipment) of a generator or interconnector party solely as a result of the
de-energisation of plant and apparatus forming part of National Grid
Electricity Transmission plc’s transmission system which arises as a result of
the authorised works;           “ Transmission Owner ” means as defined in the
STC;                 “ undertaker ” means the undertaker as defined in article
2(1) of this Order.

###### On Street Apparatus

17

Except for paragraphs 18 (Apparatus of statutory undertakers in temporarily
restricted streets), 23 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity
undertaker), 24 (expenses) and 25 (indemnity) of this Part of this Schedule,
which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the
Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National Grid, the other
provisions of this Part of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect
of which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are regulated
by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of statutory undertakers in temporarily restricted streets

18

Despite the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under article 15
(temporary restriction of use of streets), National Grid may at all times take
all necessary access across any such highway and execute and do all such works
and things in, on or under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the
restriction or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

19

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 23 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus without the written consent of
National Grid.

###### Acquisition of land

20

20.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not (a)
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land or apparatus
or (b) appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any
easement, other interest or right and/or apparatus of National Grid unless
agreed by National Grid.

20.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by
all other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are
affected by such authorised works.

20.3

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker, the undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any
inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of
this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including
but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such
relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing
easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised
by National Grid and/or other enactments relied upon by National Grid as of
right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this
Schedule shall prevail.

20.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 23 (Retained
apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) or any other paragraph of
this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to constitute agreement under
sub- paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

21

21.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order , the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub- paragraph (2) to (5).

21.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), secure any necessary consents for the alternative
apparatus and afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction (taking
into account paragraph 22(1) below) the necessary facilities and rights—

21.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

21.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

21.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid may in its sole discretion,
on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances to assist the undertaker to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation shall not
extend to the requirement for National Grid to use its compulsory purchase
powers to this end unless it elects to so do.

21.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

21.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the grant to National Grid of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

22

22.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

22.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to
National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities
and rights are subject the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance
with paragraph 29 (Arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

23

23.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
assets.

23.2

In relation to specified works, the plan to be submitted to National Grid
under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and describe—

23.2.a

the exact position of the works;

23.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

23.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

23.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

23.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

23.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes;

23.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues; and

23.2.h

a ground monitoring scheme, where required.

23.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub- paragraph
(2), include a method statement describing—

23.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

23.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

23.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

23.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

23.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

23.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

23.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

23.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of at least 26 tonnes in weight.

23.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

23.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (4)—

23.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub- paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

23.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

23.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

23.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

23.8

Where National Grid requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to National Grid’s satisfaction, , prior to the commencement of any specified
works (or any relevant part thereof) for which protective works are required
and National Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42
days of the date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in
an emergency).

23.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) and (5) to (7) apply as if the removal
of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 21(2).

23.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

23.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8)
insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and comply with sub-
paragraph (12) at all times.

23.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for development near
overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from
Overhead Lines”.

###### Expenses

24

24.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised
invoice or claim from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably
anticipated within the following three months or reasonably and properly
incurred by National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal,
relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the
construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised works including without
limitation—

24.1.a

any costs reasonably and properly incurred by or compensation properly paid by
National Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of
statutory powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs
incurred by National Grid as a consequence of National Grid;

24.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 21(3); or

24.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

24.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

24.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

24.1.d

the approval of plans;

24.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

24.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

24.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

24.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

24.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

24.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 29 (Arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

24.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

24.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

24.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

24.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

24.6

Where in accordance with sub-paragraph (1) the undertaker pays National Grid
in respect of an itemised invoice or claim for charges, costs and expenses
reasonably anticipated within the following three months, should there be any
unspent funds after the expiry of such three month period, National Grid shall
repay such unspent funds within 60 days of the total charges, costs and
expenses actually reasonably and properly incurred being known by National
Grid.

###### Indemnity

25

25.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, and provided that at all times National Grid will be under an
obligation to take reasonable steps to mitigate its loss, the undertaker will—

25.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an appropriately detailed invoice or
appropriately detailed claim from National Grid the cost reasonably and
properly incurred by National Grid in making good such damage or restoring the
supply; and

25.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party and including STC Claims or an
Incentive Deduction other than arising from any default of National Grid.

25.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

25.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of-

25.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

25.3.b

any authorised works and/or any other works authorised by this Part of this
Schedule carried out by National Grid as an assignee, transferee or lessee of
the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the
Planning Act 2008 or article 7 (benefit of the Order) subject to the proviso
that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any authorised works
yet to be executed and not falling within this sub-section 3(b) will be
subject to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including this
paragraph 25; and/or

25.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable;

25.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

25.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

25.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

25.7

Not to commence construction (and not to permit the commencement of such
construction) of the authorised works on any land owned by National Grid or in
respect of which National Grid has an easement or wayleave for its apparatus
or any other interest or to carry out any works within 15 metres of National
Grid’s apparatus until the following conditions are satisfied:

25.7.a

unless and until National Grid is satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to
all necessary regulatory constraints) that the undertaker has first provided
the acceptable security (and provided evidence that it shall maintain such
acceptable security for the construction period of the authorised works from
the proposed date of commencement of construction of the authorised works) and
National Grid has confirmed the same to the undertaker in writing; and

25.7.b

unless and until National Grid is satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to
all necessary regulatory constraints) that the undertaker has procured
acceptable insurance (and provided evidence to National Grid that it shall
maintain such acceptable insurance for the construction period of the
authorised works from the proposed date of commencement of construction of the
authorised works) and National Grid has confirmed the same in writing to the
undertaker.

25.8

In the event that the undertaker fails to comply with 25(7) of this Part of
this Schedule, nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall prevent National
Grid from seeking injunctive relief (or any other equitable remedy) in any
court of competent jurisdiction.

###### Enactments and agreements

26

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between National Grid and the undertaker,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

27

27.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 21(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 23, the undertaker must
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

27.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever National Grid’s consent, agreement or
approval is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by the undertaker, it must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and any action, decision, cost and/or
expense which may be claimed under this Part of this Schedule shall at all
times be subject to National Grid acting reasonably.

###### Access

28

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 20(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

29

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 21(2), 21(4), 22(1)
and 23 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 47 (arbitration).

###### Notices

30

Notwithstanding article 45 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be submitted using
the LSBUD system ( https://lsbud.co.uk/ ) or to such other address as National
Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### For the protection of National Gas Transmission plc as gas undertaker

###### Application

31

31.1

For the protection of National Gas Transmission as referred to in this Part of
this Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Gas Transmission.

31.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Gas Transmission, where the benefit of
this Order is transferred or granted to another person under article 7
(benefit of the Order)—

31.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Gas Transmission and the transferee or grantee
(as the case may be); and

31.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Gas
Transmission on or before the date of that transfer or grant.

31.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Gas Transmission (but without prejudice to paragraph
41(3)(b)of this Part of this Schedule).

###### Interpretation

32

32.1

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991;           “
acceptable credit provider ” means a bank or financial institution with a
credit rating that is not lower than: “A-” if the rating is assigned by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group or Fitch Ratings; and “A3” if the rating is
assigned by Moody’s Investors Services Inc.;           “ acceptable insurance
” means general third party liability insurance effected and maintained by the
undertaker with a combined property damage and bodily injury limit of
indemnity of not less than £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) per
occurrence or series of occurrences arising out of one event. Such insurance
shall be maintained for the duration of the construction period of the
authorised works; and (b) after the construction period of the authorised
works in respect of any use and maintenance of the authorised development by
or on behalf of the undertaker which constitute specified works and arranged
with an insurer whose security/credit rating meets the same requirements as an
“acceptable credit provider”, such insurance shall include (without
limitation):         a waiver of subrogation and an indemnity to principal
clause in favour of National Grid           pollution liability for third
party property damage and third party bodily damage arising from any
pollution/contamination event with a (sub)limit of indemnity of not less than
£10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per occurrence or series of occurrences
arising out of one event or £20,000,000.00 (twenty million pounds) in
aggregate;                 “ acceptable security ” means either:
parent company guarantee from a parent company in favour of National Gas
Transmission to cover the undertaker’s liability to National Gas Transmission
to a total liability cap of £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) (in a form
reasonably satisfactory to National Gas Transmission and where required by
National Gas Transmission, accompanied with a legal opinion confirming the due
capacity and authorisation of the parent company to enter into and be bound by
the terms of such guarantee); or           a bank bond or letter of credit
from an acceptable credit provider in favour of National Gas Transmission to
cover the undertaker’s liability to National Gas Transmission for an amount of
not less than £10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per asset per event up to a
total liability cap of £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) (in a form
reasonably satisfactory to National Gas Transmission);                 “
alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of National Gas Transmission to enable National Gas Transmission
to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than
previously;           “ apparatus ” means any mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by National Gas Transmission for the purposes of
gas supply together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus
constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of
National Gas Transmission for the purposes of transmission, distribution
and/or supply and includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be
lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus;           “ authorised
works ” has the same meaning as is given to the term “authorised development”
in article 2(1) of this Order and includes any ancillary works as defined in
article 2(1) of this Order and for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule
includes the use and maintenance of the authorised works and construction of
any works authorised by this Schedule;           “commence” and “commencement”
in this Part of this Schedule shall include any below ground surveys,
monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection of construction
plant and equipment;           “ deed of consent ” means a deed of consent,
crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed between the
parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing easements,
agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to secure land rights
and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the
apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule;
“ functions ” includes powers and duties;           “ ground mitigation scheme
” means a scheme approved by National Gas Transmission (such approval not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if
any) for a ground subsidence event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ”
means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus
which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored,
the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
shall require the undertaker to submit for National Gas Transmission’s
approval a ground mitigation scheme;           “ ground subsidence event ”
means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in
the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the
ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;
“in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land
includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over,
across, along or upon such land;           “maintain” and “maintenance” shall
include the ability and right to do any of the following in relation to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus of National Gas Transmission: construct,
use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus;           “
National Gas Transmission ” means National Gas Transmission plc (company
number 02006000) whose registered office is at National Grid House Warwick
Technology Park, Gallows Hill, Warwick, CV34 6DA or any successor as a gas
transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;           “
Network Code ” means the network code prepared by National Gas Transmission
pursuant to Standard Special Condition A11(3) of its Gas Transporter’s
Licence, which incorporates the Uniform Network Code, as defined in Standard
Special Condition A11(6) of National Gas Transmission’s Transporters Licence,
as both documents are amended from time to time;           “ Network Code
Claims ” means any claim made against National Gas Transmission by any person
or loss suffered by National Gas Transmission under the Network Code arising
out of or in connection with any failure by National Gas Transmission to make
gas available for off take at, or a failure to accept gas tendered for
delivery from, any entry point to or exit point from the gas national
transmission system as a result of the authorised works or any costs and/or
expenses incurred by National Gas Transmission as a result of or in connection
with, it taking action (including purchase or buy back of capacity) for the
purpose of managing constraint or potential constraint on the gas national
transmission system which may arise as a result of the authorised works;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed;           “ parent company ” means a
parent company of the undertaker acceptable to and which shall have been
approved by National Gas Transmission acting reasonably;           “ specified
works ” means any of the authorised works or activities undertaken in
association with the authorised works which         will or may be situated
over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 37(2)
or otherwise; and/or           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
37(2) or otherwise; and/or           includes any of the activities that are
referred to in paragraph 8 of T/SP/SSW/22 (National Gas Transmission’s
policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus, “Specification for
safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High Pressure Gas pipelines and
associated installations- requirements for third parties”; and
“ undertaker ” means the undertaker as defined in article 2(1) of this Order.

###### On Street Apparatus

33

Except for paragraphs 34 (Apparatus of statutory undertakers in temporarily
restricted streets), 39 (retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker), 40
(expenses) and 41 (indemnity) of this Schedule which will apply in respect of
the exercise of all or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and
apparatus of National Gas Transmission, the other provisions of this Schedule
do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between the
undertaker and National Gas Transmission are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of statutory undertakers in temporarily restricted streets

34

Despite the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under article 15
(temporary restriction of use of streets), National Gas Transmission may at
all times take all necessary access across any such highway and execute and do
all such works and things in, on or under any such highway as may be
reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which
at the time of the restriction or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

35

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 23 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus without the written consent of
National Gas Transmission.

###### Acquisition of land

36

36.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not (a)
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land or apparatus
or (b) appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any
easement, other interest or right and/or apparatus of National Gas
Transmission unless agreed by National Gas Transmission.

36.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between National Gas Transmission and the
undertaker) that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule
that will cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other
legal or land interest of National Gas Transmission or affect the provisions
of any enactment or agreement regulating the relations between National Gas
Transmission and the undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in
land belonging to or secured by the undertaker, the undertaker must as
National Gas Transmission reasonably requires enter into such deeds of consent
upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between National Gas
Transmission and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less
favourable on the whole to National Gas Transmission unless otherwise agreed
by National Gas Transmission, and it will be the responsibility of the
undertaker to procure and/or secure the consent and entering into of such
deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land
at that time who are affected by such authorised works.

36.3

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Gas Transmission and
the undertaker, the undertaker and National Gas Transmission agree that where
there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out in
this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus/including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by National Gas Transmission and/or other enactments relied upon
by National Gas Transmission as of right or other use in relation to the
apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule shall prevail.

36.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Gas Transmission under paragraph
39 or any other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to
constitute agreement under sub- paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

37

37.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order , the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Gas Transmission to maintain that
apparatus in that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus
has been constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of
National Gas Transmission in accordance with sub- paragraph (2) to (5).

37.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Gas Transmission advance written notice of that requirement, together
with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order
National Gas Transmission reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), secure any necessary consents
for the alternative apparatus and afford to National Gas Transmission to its
reasonable satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 38(1) below) the
necessary facilities and rights—

37.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

37.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

37.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Gas Transmission may, in its
sole discretion, on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the
undertaker, take such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances to assist
the undertaker to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in
which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation
shall not extend to the requirement for National Gas Transmission to use its
compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it elects to so do.

37.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Gas
Transmission and the undertaker.

37.5

National Gas Transmission must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided
or constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the grant to National Gas
Transmission of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

38

38.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Gas Transmission facilities and
rights in land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of
alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those
facilities and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be
agreed between the undertaker and National Gas Transmission and must be no
less favourable on the whole to National Gas Transmission than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed unless
otherwise agreed by National Gas Transmission.

38.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to
National Gas Transmission than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in
respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions to which
those facilities and rights are subject the matter may be referred to
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 44 (Arbitration) of this Part of this
Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of
compensation by the undertaker to National Gas Transmission as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker

39

39.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Gas Transmission a plan and, if reasonably
required by National Gas Transmission, a ground monitoring scheme in respect
of those works.

39.2

In relation to specified works, the plan to be submitted to National Gas
Transmission under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and
describe—

39.2.a

the exact position of the works;

39.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

39.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

39.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

39.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

39.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

39.3

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)
apply until National Gas Transmission has given written approval of the plan
so submitted.

39.4

Any approval of National Gas Transmission required under sub-paragraph (3)—

39.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (5) or (7); and,

39.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

39.5

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and/or (2) apply, National
Gas Transmission may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may
be reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

39.6

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub paragraph
(5), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Gas Transmission and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5)
or (7) by National Gas Transmission for the alteration or otherwise for the
protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Gas
Transmission will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those
works.

39.7

Where National Gas Transmission requires any protective works to be carried
out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent
nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required
and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be
carried out to National Gas Transmission’s satisfaction, , prior to the
commencement of any specified works for which protective works are required
and National Gas Transmission must give notice of its requirement for such
works within 42 days of the date of submission of a plan pursuant to this
paragraph (except in an emergency).

39.8

If National Gas Transmission in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) and
in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires
the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of
that requirement, paragraphs 31 to 33 and 35 to 37 apply as if the removal of
the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 37(2).

39.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

39.10

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Gas Transmission notice as soon as is reasonably
practicable and a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (5),
(6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and
comply with sub-paragraph (11) at all times.

39.11

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order the
undertaker must comply with National Gas Transmission’s policies for safe
working in proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in the
vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and 69 associated
installation requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22” and HSE’s “HS(~G)47
Avoiding Danger from underground services”.

39.12

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker must implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that National Gas Transmission
retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works for the
safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with
paragraph 40.

###### Expenses

40

40.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Gas Transmission and
the undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Gas Transmission within 30 days of receipt of
an itemised invoice or claim from National Gas Transmission all charges, costs
and expenses reasonably anticipated within the following three months or
reasonably and properly incurred by National Gas Transmission in, or in
connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new or alternative
apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any
authorised works including without limitation—

40.1.a

any costs reasonably and properly incurred by or compensation properly paid by
National Gas Transmission in connection with the acquisition of rights or the
exercise of statutory powers for such apparatus including without limitation
all costs incurred by National Gas Transmission as a consequence of National
Gas Transmission;

40.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 37(3); or

40.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Gas Transmission;

40.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

40.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

40.1.d

the approval of plans;

40.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

40.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

40.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

40.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

40.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

40.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 44 (Arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Gas Transmission by virtue of sub-
paragraph (1) will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent
that it is not possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of
apparatus at the same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth
in which case full costs will be borne by the undertaker.

40.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

40.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

40.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

40.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Gas Transmission in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if
the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for
apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on
National Gas Transmission any financial benefit by deferment of the time for
renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount
which represents that benefit.

40.6

Where in accordance with sub-paragraph (1) the undertaker pays National Gas
Transmission in respect of an itemised invoice or claim for charges, costs and
expenses reasonably anticipated within the following three months, should
there be any unspent funds after the expiry of such three month period
National Gas Transmission shall repay such unspent funds within 60 days of the
total charges, costs and expenses actually reasonably and properly incurred
being known, and include an itemised accounting of the charges, costs and
expenses reasonably and properly incurred for the three months following the
issue of the itemised invoice or claim.

###### Indemnity

41

41.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Gas Transmission, or there is
any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods or
energy, by National Gas Transmission, or National Gas Transmission becomes
liable to pay any amount to any third party, and provided that at all times
National Gas Transmission will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps
to mitigate its loss, the undertaker will—

41.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an appropriately detailed invoice or
appropriately detailed claim from National Gas Transmission the cost
reasonably and properly incurred by National Gas Transmission in making good
such damage or restoring the supply; and

41.1.b

indemnify National Gas Transmission for any other expenses, loss, demands,
proceedings, damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from
National Gas Transmission, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or National Gas Transmission becoming liable to any third party
and including Network Code Claims other than arising from any default of
National Gas Transmission.

41.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Gas Transmission
on behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National
Gas Transmission or in accordance with any requirement of National Gas
Transmission or under its supervision will not (unless sub-paragraph (3)
applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of this
sub-paragraph (1) unless National Gas Transmission fails to carry out and
execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and
workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the approved
plan.

41.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of-

41.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Gas Transmission, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents;

41.3.b

any authorised works and/or any other works authorised by this Part of this
Schedule carried out by National Gas Transmission as an assignee, transferee
or lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section
156 of the Planning Act 2008 or article 7 (benefit of the Order) subject to
the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any
authorised works yet to be executed and not falling within this sub-section
3(b) will be subject to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including
this paragraph 41; and/or

41.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable;

41.4

National Gas Transmission must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such third party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or
compromise must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and
considering their representations.

41.5

National Gas Transmission must, in respect of any matter covered by the
indemnity given by the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act
reasonably and in the same manner as it would as if settling third party
claims on its own behalf from its own funds.

41.6

National Gas Transmission must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and
to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the
indemnity under this paragraph applies where it is within National Gas
Transmission’s reasonable ability and control to do so and which expressly
excludes any obligation to mitigate liability arising from third parties which
is outside of National Gas Transmission’s control and if reasonably requested
to do so by the undertaker National Gas Transmission must provide an
explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where relevant.

41.7

Not to commence construction (and not to permit the commencement of such
construction) of the authorised works on any land owned by National Gas
Transmission or in respect of which National Gas Transmission has an easement
or wayleave for its apparatus or any other interest or to carry out any works
within 15 metres of National Gas Transmission’s apparatus until the following
conditions are satisfied:

41.7.a

unless and until National Gas Transmission is satisfied acting reasonably (but
subject to all necessary regulatory constraints) that the undertaker has first
provided the acceptable security (and provided evidence that it shall maintain
such acceptable security for the construction period of the authorised works
from the proposed date of commencement of construction of the authorised
works) and National Gas Transmission has confirmed the same to the undertaker
in writing; and

41.7.b

unless and until National Gas Transmission is satisfied acting reasonably (but
subject to all necessary regulatory constraints) that the undertaker has
procured acceptable insurance (and provided evidence to National Gas
Transmission that it shall maintain such acceptable insurance for the
construction period of the authorised works from the proposed date of
commencement of construction of the authorised works) and National Gas
Transmission has confirmed the same in writing to the undertaker.

41.8

In the event that the undertaker fails to comply with 11(7) of this Part of
this Schedule, nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall prevent National
Gas Transmission from seeking injunctive relief (or any other equitable
remedy) in any court of competent jurisdiction.

###### Enactments and agreements

42

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between National Gas Transmission and the
undertaker, nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of
any enactment or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and
National Gas Transmission in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land
belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

43

43.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Gas Transmission requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or National Gas Transmission makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 39,
the undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution
of the authorised works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe
and efficient operation of National Gas Transmission’s undertaking and
National Gas Transmission must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

43.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever National Gas Transmission’s consent,
agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or other
information submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by the
undertaker, it must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and any action,
decision, cost and/or expense which may be claimed under this Part of this
Schedule shall at all times be subject to National Gas Transmission acting
reasonably.

###### Access

44

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 36(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Gas Transmission to maintain
or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such
obstruction.

###### Arbitration

45

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 37(2), 37(4), 38(1)
and 39 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Gas Transmission under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Gas Transmission, be
determined by arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration).

###### Notices

46

Notwithstanding article 45 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Gas Transmission by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be
submitted to  https://lsbud.co.uk/  or such other address as National Gas
Transmission may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify
to the undertaker in writing.

##### For the protection of Cadent Gas Limited

###### Application

47

For the protection of Cadent the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Cadent, have effect.

###### Interpretation

48

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of Cadent to enable Cadent to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus
” means any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic
protections, cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Cadent
for the purposes of Cadent’s undertaking together with any replacement
apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that
becomes operational apparatus of Cadent for the purposes of Cadent’s
undertaking and includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged
or which gives or will give access to apparatus;           “ authorised
development ” has the same meaning as is given in article 2(1) of the Order
and includes any associated development authorised by the Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised development and construction of any works authorised by this
Schedule           “ Cadent ” means Cadent Gas Limited and includes its
successors in title or any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;           “ Cadent’s undertaking ” means the
rights, duties and obligations of Cadent Gas Limited as a public gas
transporter within the meaning of Section 7 of the Gas Act 1986 (as amended by
the Gas Act 1995);           “commence” and “ commencement ” means carry out a
material operation, as defined in section 155 of the 2008 Act (which explains
when development begins), comprised in or for the purposes of the authorised
development including (but not limited to) any below ground surveys,
monitoring, work operations, remedial work in respect of any contamination or
other adverse ground condition, the erection of construction plant and
equipment, other than erection of fencing to site boundaries or marking out of
site boundaries, installation of amphibian and reptile fencing, or
environmental mitigation measures, and “commencement”, “commenced” and cognate
expressions are to be construed accordingly;           “ deed of consent ”
means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of
grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to
secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule;           “facilities and rights” for construction and
for maintenance include any appropriate working areas required to reasonably
and safely undertake that construction or maintenance, and any necessary
rights of access;           “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by Cadent (such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures
(if any) for a ground subsidence event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ”
means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus
which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored,
the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
shall require the undertaker to submit for Cadent’s approval a ground
mitigation scheme;           “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground
subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground
monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground
monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;           “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land;           “maintain” and “maintenance” have effect as if
Cadent’s existing apparatus was authorised development and as if the term
maintain includes protect and use;           “ parent company ” means a parent
company of the undertaker acceptable to Cadent and which shall have been
approved by Cadent acting reasonably;           “plan” or “plans” include all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed;           “ protective works ” means the underpinning,
strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to prevent damage to
or interference with Cadent’s apparatus that may be caused by the carrying
out, maintenance or use of the authorised development;           “ rights ”
includes restrictive covenants and, in relation to decommissioned apparatus,
the surrender of rights, release of liabilities and transfer of decommissioned
apparatus; and           “ specified works ” means any of the authorised
development or activities (including maintenance) undertaken in association
with the authorised development which—         will or may be situated over,
or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph 53(2) or
otherwise; or           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph
53(2) or otherwise.

###### On Street apparatus

49

49.1

This Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the undertaker and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of
the 1991 Act, except for—

49.1.a

paragraphs 50, 55, and 57; and

49.1.b

where sub-paragraph (2) applies, paragraphs 53 and 54.

49.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be carried out
under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

49.3

The Protective Provisions in this Part of this Schedule apply and take
precedence over article 36 (statutory undertakers) and 37 (recovery of costs
of new connections) of the Order which shall not apply to Cadent.

###### Apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets

50

50.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 13 (temporary restriction of
public rights of way), 15 (temporary restriction of use of streets) or
Schedule 5 (streets to be temporarily closed or restricted), if Cadent has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street Cadent is entitled to the
same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the
stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Cadent, or procure the granting
to Cadent of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Cadent in respect of
such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street or
highway, but nothing in this paragraph shall affect any right of the
undertaker or of Cadent to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 53.

50.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) below, and notwithstanding the temporary
alteration, diversion or restriction of use of any street under the powers of
article 13 (temporary restriction of public rights of way), 15 (temporary
restriction of use of streets) or Schedule 5 (streets to be temporarily closed
or restricted), Cadent will be at liberty at all times and at Cadent’s own
risk to take reasonable access across any such street and to execute and do
all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as it would have
been entitled to do immediately before such temporary alteration, diversion or
restriction in respect of any apparatus which at the time of the stopping up
or diversion was in that street.

50.3

In taking access pursuant to sub-paragraph (2) above, Cadent must—

50.3.a

comply with any plans produced by the undertaker pursuant to its obligations
under the Construction (Design and Management) Regulations 2015; and

50.3.b

comply with all relevant health and safety legislation, guidance, protocols
and procedures.

###### Protective works to buildings

51

51.1

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 23 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of Cadent (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) and if by reason of the exercise of those
powers any damage to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in the view of its intended removal or
abandonment) or property of Cadent or any interruption in the supply of gas by
Cadent, as the case may be, is caused, the undertaker must bear and pay on
demand the cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good such damage or
restoring the supply; and, subject to sub-paragraph (2), shall—

51.1.a

pay compensation to Cadent for any reasonable loss sustained by it; and

51.1.b

indemnify Cadent against all claims, demands, proceedings, reasonable costs,
damages and expenses which may be made or taken against or recovered from or
incurred by Cadent, by reason of any such damage or interruption provided that
at all times Cadent will be under an obligation to take all reasonable steps
to mitigate its loss.

51.2

Nothing in this paragraph imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect
to any damage or interruption to the extent that such damage or interruption
is attributable to the act, neglect or default of Cadent or its contractors or
workmen; and Cadent will give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim
or demand as aforesaid and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
thereof shall be made by Cadent, save in respect of any payment requirement
under a statutory compensation scheme, without first consulting the undertaker
and giving the undertaker an opportunity to make representations as to the
claim or demand.

###### Acquisition of land

52

52.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire from Cadent any interest in land or appropriate,
acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or other interest
in land of Cadent otherwise than by agreement.

52.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out or maintenance of any part of the authorised development (or
in such other timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of Cadent or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between Cadent and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as Cadent reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by Cadent, and it will be the responsibility
of the undertaker to procure or secure the consent to and entering into of
such deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the
land at that time who are affected by such authorised development or
maintenance thereof.

52.3

The undertaker and Cadent agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus, including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by Cadent and other enactments
relied upon by Cadent as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus,
then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

52.4

Any agreement or consent granted by Cadent under paragraph 55 or any other
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute
agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

52.5

As a condition of an agreement under sub-paragraph (1) that involves de-
commissioned apparatus being left in situ Cadent must use reasonable
endeavours to surrender its easement or other interest in land in respect of
such decommissioned apparatus to the reversionary landowner. If Cadent is not
released by the reversionary landowner from all liabilities in respect of such
de-commissioned apparatus the undertaker shall take on such liabilities in
respect of such de-commissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

52.6

Where an undertaker acquires land which is subject to any Cadent right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph 53 do not apply,
the undertaker must, unless Cadent agrees otherwise—

52.6.a

retain any notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest on the title
to the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

52.6.b

(where no such notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
Cadent’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

53

53.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 52, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed and any right of Cadent to
maintain that apparatus in that land must not be extinguished or interfered
with until alternative apparatus has been constructed, is in operation, and
the facilities and rights referred to in sub-paragraph (2) have been provided,
to the reasonable satisfaction of Cadent and in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(2) to (5) inclusive.

53.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
Cadent advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and
section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
Cadent to its reasonable satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 54(1))
the necessary facilities and rights—

53.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus (including appropriate working
areas required to reasonably and safely undertake necessary works by Cadent in
respect of the apparatus);

53.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus (including appropriate
working areas required to reasonably and safely undertake necessary works by
Cadent in respect of the apparatus); and

53.2.c

to allow access to that apparatus (including appropriate working areas
required to reasonably and safely undertake necessary works by Cadent in
respect of the apparatus).

53.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus
or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the undertaker in
obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation shall not
extend to the requirement for Cadent to use its compulsory purchase powers to
this end unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

53.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such position as may be agreed between Cadent and the undertaker.

53.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), then proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus required by
the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the provisions of this
Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

54

54.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent (in Cadent’s reasonable opinion) than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or removed
unless otherwise agreed by Cadent.

54.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and
the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to
be granted, are less favourable on the whole to Cadent than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed (in Cadent’s reasonable opinion), then the terms and conditions to
which those facilities and rights are subject may be referred to arbitration
in accordance with paragraph 60 of this Part of this Schedule and the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to Cadent as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having
regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of Cadent

55

55.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent,
a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

55.2

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) must include a
method statement and describe—

55.2.a

the exact position of the works;

55.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

55.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

55.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

55.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

55.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

55.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until Cadent has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

55.4

Any approval of Cadent given under sub-paragraph (3)—

55.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5); and

55.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and Cadent must meaningfully
engage with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the
plan under sub-paragraph (1).

55.5

Cadent may require such modifications to be made to the plan as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

55.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

55.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and Cadent; and

55.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a), and Cadent will be entitled
to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

55.7

Where Cadent reasonably requires any protective works to be carried out by
itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to Cadent’s reasonable satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified
works (or any relevant part thereof) for which protective works are required
prior to commencement.

55.8

If Cadent, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 47 to 49 and 52 to 54 apply as if
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 53(2).

55.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

55.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development (including such an event
attributable to its maintenance)—

55.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

55.10.b

Cadent retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
(in Cadent’s reasonable opinion) for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can
recover any such costs associated with the further protective works in line
with paragraph 56.

55.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to Cadent notice as
soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a) insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

55.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

56

56.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Cadent on demand, all documented charges, costs and expenses reasonably
anticipated or reasonably and properly incurred by Cadent in, or in connection
with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection
of any apparatus or the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which
may be required in consequence of the execution of any authorised development
including without limitation—

56.1.a

any costs reasonably and properly incurred by or compensation properly paid by
Cadent in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of
statutory powers for such apparatus including without limitation all
reasonable costs (including professional fees) incurred by Cadent as a
consequence of Cadent;

56.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 53(3) if it elects to do so; or

56.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

56.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

56.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

56.1.d

the approval of plans;

56.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

56.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule;

56.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub-paragraph 55(6).

56.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

56.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

56.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

56.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

56.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

56.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

56.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

56.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

56.6

Where Cadent demands payment of reasonably anticipated charges, costs and
expenses pursuant to sub-paragraph (1), Cadent must provide the undertaker
with an itemised invoice or claim detailing such charges, costs, and expenses
reasonably anticipated to fall due within the following three months of such a
demand. The undertaker shall pay the reasonably anticipated costs set out in
the itemised invoice to Cadent on demand in accordance with sub-paragraph (1).
To the extent that this sum paid in advance has not been expended by Cadent
before three months after payment by the undertaker of that sum, the
undertaker may demand the unspent balance remaining to be repaid by Cadent and
Cadent shall repay that unspent balance within 30 days (unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the parties).

###### Enactments and agreements

57

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise, nothing in this
Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and Cadent in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

58

58.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or Cadent requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 53(2) or Cadent makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 55, the undertaker must
use its reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to
co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

58.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever Cadent’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

###### Access

59

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 52(1)
or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative rights and
means of access to such apparatus as will enable Cadent to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction (in
Cadent’s reasonable opinion). For the avoidance of doubt, where the undertaker
cannot grant such alternative rights and means of access to such apparatus by
virtue of not being in possession of the requisite land rights, the undertaker
shall use reasonable endeavours to assist in the securing of the requisite
rights and means of access.

###### Arbitration

60

Save for differences or disputes arising under sub-paragraphs 53(2) and 53(4)
any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Cadent under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article
47 (arbitration).

###### Notices

61

Notwithstanding article 45 (service of notices) any plans submitted to Cadent
by the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph 55(1) must be sent via email to
Cadent Gas Limited Plant Protection at  plantprotection@cadentgas.com  copied
by e-mail to  toby.feirn@cadentgas.com  and sent to the General Counsel
Department at Cadent’s registered office or such other address as Cadent may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### For the protection of Network Rail

62

The following provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail and, in
the case of paragraph 76, of this Part of this Schedule any other person on
whom rights or obligations are conferred by that paragraph.

63

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ asset protection agreement ” means an agreement to regulate the
construction and maintenance of the specified work in a form prescribed from
time to time by Network Rail;           “ construction ” includes execution,
placing, alteration and reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have
corresponding meanings;           “ the engineer ” means an engineer appointed
by Network Rail for the purposes of this Order;           “ network licence ”
means the network licence, as the same is amended from time to time, granted
to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited by the Secretary of State in exercise
of his powers under section 8(1)(licences) of the Railways Act l993;
“ Network Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (company number
02904587, whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt Street, London NW1 2DN)
and any associated company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited which holds
property for railway purposes, and for the purpose of this definition “
associated company ” means any company which is (within the meaning of section
1159 of the Companies Act 2006 the holding company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited or
another subsidiary of the holding company of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited and any successor to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited’s railway
undertaking;           “ plans ” includes sections, designs, design data,
software, drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations, descriptions
(including descriptions of methods of construction), staging proposals,
programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any proposed
occupation of railway property;           “ protective works ” means the
underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose;   of which is to
prevent damage that may be caused by the carrying out, maintenance or use of
the authorised development;           “ railway operational procedures ” means
procedures specified under any access agreement (as defined in the Railways
Act 1993) or station lease;           “ railway property ” means any railway
belonging to Network Rail and—         any station, land, works, apparatus and
equipment belonging to Network Rail or connected with any such railway; and
any easement or other property interest held or used by Network Rail or a
tenant or licensee of Network Rail for the purposes of such railway or works,
apparatus or equipment;                 “ regulatory consents ” means any
consent or approval required under:         the Railways Act 1993;
the network licence; and/or           any other relevant statutory or
regulatory provisions;

by either the Office of Rail and Road or the Secretary of State for Transport
or any other competent body including change procedures and any other
consents, approvals of any access or beneficiary that may be required in
relation to the authorised development;

      “ specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised works as is
situated upon, across, under, over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way
adversely affect, railway property, and for the avoidance of doubt, includes
the maintenance of such works under the powers conferred by article 5 (power
to maintain the authorised development) in respect of such works.

64

64.1

Where under this Part of this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its
consent or approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

64.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

64.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

64.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised works pursuant to this Order.

65

65.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by—

65.1.a

article 22 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

65.1.b

article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land);

65.1.c

article 26 (compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants);

65.1.d

article 27 (statutory authority to override easements and other rights);

65.1.e

article 31 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only);

65.1.f

article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development);

65.1.g

article 35 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development);

65.1.h

article 36 (statutory undertakers);

65.1.i

the powers conferred by section 203 (power to override easements and rights)
of the Housing and Planning Act 2016;

65.1.j

the powers conferred by section 172 (right to enter and survey land) of the
Housing and Planning Act 2016;

in respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with
the consent of Network Rail, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.

65.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

65.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272
of the 1990 Act or article 36 (statutory undertakers) in relation to any right
of access of Network Rail to railway property, but such right of access may be
extinguished or diverted with the consent of Network Rail.

65.4

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or
acquire new rights over, or seek to impose any restrictive covenants over, any
railway property, or extinguish any existing rights of Network Rail in respect
of any third party property, except with the consent of Network Rail.

65.5

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order do anything which would
directly result in railway property being incapable of being used or
maintained or which would affect the safe running of trains on the railway, in
Network Rail’s reasonable opinion.

65.6

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions including any conditions necessary to ensure operational
or railway safety but it shall never be unreasonable to withhold consent for
reasons of operational or railway safety (such matters to be in Network Rail’s
absolute discretion).

65.7

The undertaker must enter into an asset protection agreement prior to the
carrying out of any specified work.

66

66.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration under article 47
(arbitration).

66.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
intimated his disapproval of those plans and the grounds of his disapproval,
the undertaker may serve upon the engineer written notice requiring the
engineer to intimate his approval or disapproval within a further period of 28
days beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives written notice
from the undertaker. If by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has
not intimated his approval or disapproval, he shall be deemed to have approved
the plans as submitted.

66.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, subject to Network Rail seeking
consent from the undertaker (such matters to be in the undertaker’s absolute
discretion) and if the undertaker desires such part of the specified work to
be constructed, Network Rail must construct it with all reasonable dispatch on
behalf of and to the absolute satisfaction of the undertaker in accordance
with the plans approved or deemed to be approved or settled under this
paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) of the
undertaker.

66.4

When signifying his approval of the plans the engineer may specify any
protective works (whether temporary or permanent) which in his reasonable
opinion should be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a
specified work to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the
continuation of safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail
or the services of operators using the same (including any relocation de-
commissioning and removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a
specified work and the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by
the specified works), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary
for those purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker,
if Network Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at
the reasonable expense of the undertaker in either case without reasonable
delay and the undertaker must not commence the construction of the specified
works until the engineer has notified the undertaker that the protective works
have been completed to his reasonable satisfaction.

66.5

The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a
case of emergency but in that case it shall give to Network Rail notice as
soon as is reasonably practicable, and in addition to that notice shall
provide a plan, section and description of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently.

67

67.1

Any protective works to be constructed by virtue of paragraph 66(4) must, when
commenced, be constructed—

67.1.a

without necessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph 66;

67.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

67.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

67.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

67.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction
shall be caused by the carrying out of the construction of a specified work,
the undertaker must, regardless of any such approval, make good such damage
and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may
be put and reasonable compensation for any loss which it may sustain by reason
of any such damage, interference or obstruction but always excluding any
consequential loss or indirect loss.

67.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule imposes any liability on the undertaker
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of Network Rail or its employees, contractors or agents or any
liability on Network Rail with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss
attributable to the negligence of the undertaker or its employees, contractors
or agents.

68

The undertaker must-

68.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

68.b

supply the engineer with all such information as he may reasonably require
with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

69

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its employees, contractors or agents for access to any works carried out
by Network Rail under this Part during their construction and must supply the
undertaker with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to
such works or the method of constructing them.

70

70.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property,
are reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of a specified
work, or during a period of 24 months after the completion of that work in
order to ensure the safety of railway property or the continued safe operation
of the railway of Network Rail, such alterations and additions may be carried
out by Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the undertaker written notice
of its intention to carry out such alterations or additions (which must be
specified in the notice), the undertaker must pay to Network Rail the
reasonable cost of those alterations or additions including, in respect of any
such alterations and additions as are to be permanent, a capitalised sum
representing the increase of the costs which may be expected to be reasonably
incurred by Network Rail in maintaining, working, and when necessary, renewing
any such alterations or additions.

70.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed and provides its consent, (such
matters to be in the undertaker’s absolute discretion) Network Rail must
assume construction of that part of the specified work and the undertaker
must, regardless of any such approval of a specified work under paragraph
66(3), pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may
be put and reasonable compensation for any loss which it may suffer by reason
of the execution by Network Rail of that specified work provided that at all
times Network Rail will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps to
mitigate its loss and always excluding any consequential loss or indirect
loss.

70.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 71(a) provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

70.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

71

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

71.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph 66(3) or in constructing any protective works under the
provisions of paragraph 66(4) including, in respect of any permanent
protective works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and
renewing those works;

71.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by him of the construction of a specified work;

71.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, guards and other persons whom it shall be reasonably necessary to
appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway property and
for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable, interference,
obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or failure of a
specified work;

71.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or from the substitution of diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

71.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

72

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as that it adversely affects the operation of railway property, the
undertaker must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be
reasonably necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance
as not adversely to affect railway property.

73

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

74

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be repaid by
the undertaker to Network Rail.

75

75.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses (but always excluding any consequential or indirect loss) not
otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule (subject to article 46
(no double recovery)) which may be occasioned to or reasonably incurred by
Network Rail—

75.1.a

by reason of the undertaker’s construction, maintenance or operation of a
specified work or the failure thereof; or

75.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employment or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified
work;

75.1.c

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or any person in its
employment or of its contractors or others whilst accessing to or egressing
from the authorised development;

75.1.d

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to,
railway property or any such interference or obstruction or delay to the
operation of the railway as a result of access to or egress from the
authorised development by the undertaker or any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others; and

75.1.e

in respect of costs incurred by Network Rail in complying with any railway
operational procedures or obtaining any regulatory consents which procedures
are required to be followed or consents obtained to facilitate the
construction or operation of the authorised development;

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or any such failure, act or omission, provided Network Rail
will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps to mitigate its loss and
always excluding any consequential loss or indirect loss.

75.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in
accordance with any requirement of the engineer or under his supervision shall
not (if it was done without negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any
person in its employ or of its contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker
from any liability under this Part.

75.3

Network Rail must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand shall be made
without the prior consent of the undertaker take such steps as are within its
control and are reasonable in the circumstances to mitigate any liabilities
relating to such claims or demands.

75.4

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) shall include a sum
equivalent to the relevant costs.

75.5

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

75.6

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
shall, in the event of default, be enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub paragraph (4).

75.7

In this paragraph—

      “ the relevant costs ” means the costs, losses and expenses (including
loss of revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence
of any restriction of the use of Network Rail’s railway network as a direct
result of the construction, maintenance or failure of a specified work or any
such act or omission as mentioned in subparagraph (1); and           “ train
operator ” means any person who is authorised to act as the operator of a
train by a licence under section 8 of the Railways Act 1993.

76

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Part (including the amount of the relevant costs
reasonably incurred and mentioned in paragraph 76) and with such information
as may reasonably enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any
such estimate or claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part of this
Schedule (including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

77

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part there
must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed that is
attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by Network
Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was taken or
entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or increasing the sums so payable.

78

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

78.a

any railway property shown on the works and land plans and described in the
book of reference;

78.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

78.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

79

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I of the Railways Act
1993.

80

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 7 (benefit of Order) of this Order and any such notice must be
given no later than 28 days before any such application is made and must
describe or give (as appropriate)—

80.a

the nature of the application to be made;

80.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

80.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

81

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans
submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with
article 44 (certification of plans) are certified by the Secretary of State,
provide a set of those plans to Network Rail in the form of a USB stick or
download link.

##### For the protection of the Canal and River Trust

###### Interpretation

82

82.1

For the protection of the Canal & River Trust the following provisions of this
Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and the Canal & River Trust.

82.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ Code of Practice ” means the Code of Practice for Works Affecting the
Canal & River Trust (April 2022) or any updates or amendments thereto;
“ construction ”, in relation to any specified work or protective work,
includes—         the execution and placing of that work; and           any
relaying, renewal, or maintenance of that work and “construct” and
“constructed” have corresponding meanings;                 “Canal & River
Trust’s network” means the Canal & River Trust’s network of waterways;
“ detriment ” means any damage to the waterway or any other property of the
Canal & River Trust caused by the presence of the authorised development and,
without prejudice to the generality of that meaning, includes—         any
material obstruction of, or interference with, or hindrance or danger to,
navigation or to any use of the waterway (including towing paths);         the
erosion of the bed or banks of the waterway, or the impairment of the
stability of any works, lands or premises forming part of the waterway;
the deposit of materials or the siltation of the waterway so as to damage the
waterway;           the pollution of the waterway;           any significant
alteration in the water level of the waterway, or significant interference
with the supply of water thereto, or drainage of water therefrom;
any harm to the ecology of the waterway (including any adverse impact on any
site of special scientific interest comprised in the Canal & River Trust’s
network); and           any material interference with the exercise by any
person of rights over Canal & River Trust’s network;                       “
the engineer ” means an engineer appointed by the Canal & River Trust for the
purpose in question;           “ plans ” includes sections, designs, drawings,
specifications, soil reports, calculations, descriptions (including
descriptions of methods of construction) and programmes;           “ practical
completion ” means practical completion of all of the specified work
notwithstanding that items which would ordinarily be considered snagging items
remain outstanding, and the expression “practically complete” and “
practically completed ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ protective
work ” means a work constructed under paragraph 86(3)(a);           “
specified work ” means so much of any authorised development as defined in
article 2(1) of this Order that is situated upon, across, under, over or
within 15 metres of, or may in any way affect the waterway;           “ the
waterway ” means each and every part of the Shropshire Union Canal within the
order limits, and any works, lands or premises belonging to the Canal & River
Trust, or under its management or control, and held or used by the Canal &
River Trust in connection with that canal in connection with its statutory
functions.

###### Powers requiring the Canal & River Trust’s consent

83

83.1

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
to materially obstruct or interfere with pedestrian or vehicular access to the
waterway unless such obstruction or interference with such access is with the
consent of the Canal & River Trust.

83.2

The undertaker must not exercise any power conferred by this Order to
discharge water into the waterway under article 20 (discharge of water) or in
any way interfere with the supply of water to or the drainage of water from
the waterway unless such exercise is with the consent of the Canal & River
Trust, and such consent may be given subject to terms and conditions as the
Canal & River Trust may reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.

83.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (authority
to survey and investigate the land) or section 11(3) of the 1965 Act, in
relation to the Shropshire Union Canal unless such exercise is with the
consent of the Canal & River Trust.

83.4

Articles 6(a) 6(b) and 6(d)(i) (limits of deviation) shall not apply in
relation to the waterway unless in conducting such exercise the crown of any
installed pipeline is at least 3.5 metres below the hard bed level of the
waterway or otherwise with the consent of the Canal & River Trust.

83.5

The consent of the Canal & River Trust pursuant to sub-paragraphs (1) to (4)
must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

83.6

This paragraph does not apply where the undertaker reasonably believes
emergency works are required to prevent imminent injury or damage to persons
or property. In such circumstances the Canal & River Trust must be notified as
soon as reasonably practicable.

###### Fencing

84

84.1

Where so required by the engineer the undertaker must to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer fence off a specified work or a protective work
or take such other steps as the engineer may require to be taken for the
purpose of separating a specified work or a protective work from the waterway,
whether on a temporary or permanent basis or both.

84.2

Any fencing constructed under this provision shall not require any other
consent from the Canal & River Trust for interferences or obstructions to
access to their network under other provisions.

###### Survey of waterway

85

85.1

Before the commencement of the initial construction of any part of the
specified works and again following practical completion of the specified
works the undertaker must bear the reasonable and proper cost of the carrying
out by a qualified engineer (the “surveyor”), to be approved by the Canal &
River Trust and the undertaker, of a survey including a dip-survey to measure
the depth of the waterway (“the survey”) of so much of the waterway and of any
land and existing works of the undertaker which may provide support for the
waterway as will or may be affected by the specified works.

85.2

For the purposes of the survey the undertaker must—

85.2.a

on being given reasonable notice (save in case of emergency, when immediate
access must be afforded) afford reasonable facilities to the surveyor for
access to the site of the specified works and to any land and existing works
of the undertaker which may provide support for the waterway as will or may be
affected by the specified works; and

85.2.b

supply the surveyor as soon as reasonably practicable with all such
information as they may reasonably require and which the undertaker holds with
regard to such existing works of the undertaker and to the specified works or
the method of their construction.

85.3

The reasonable costs of the survey must include the costs of any dewatering or
reduction of the water level of any part of the waterway (where reasonably
required) which may be effected to facilitate the carrying out of the survey
and the provisions of this Part will apply with all necessary

85.4

modifications to any such dewatering or reduction in the water level as though
the same were specified works.

85.5

Copies of the survey must be provided to both the Canal & River Trust and the
undertaker at no cost to the Canal & River Trust.

###### Approval of plans, protective works etc.

86

86.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
including any temporary works supply to the Canal & River Trust proper and
sufficient plans of that work, on the Canal & River Trust forms or as
otherwise agreed, having regard to the Canal & River Trust’s Code of Practice
and such further particulars as the Canal and River Trust may within 10
working days of the initial submission of the plans reasonably require.
Construction of a specified work must not commence until plans of that work
have been approved in writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration.

86.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, and if within 30 working days after such plans (including
any other particulars reasonably required under sub-paragraph (1)) have been
received by the Canal & River Trust the engineer has not intimated their
disapproval of those plans and the grounds of their disapproval the engineer
is deemed to have approved the plans as submitted.

86.3

When signifying approval of the plans the engineer may specify, on land held
or controlled by the Canal & River Trust or the undertaker and subject to such
works being authorised by this Order or being development permitted by an Act
of Parliament or general development order made under the 1990 Act—

86.3.a

any protective work (whether temporary or permanent) which in the reasonable
opinion of the engineer should be carried out before the commencement of a
specified work to prevent detriment; and

86.3.b

such other requirements as may be reasonably necessary to prevent detriment.

86.4

Any protective works required under this paragraph must be constructed by the
undertaker or by the Canal & River Trust at the undertaker’s request as soon
as practicable and the undertaker must not commence the construction of a
specified work until the engineer has notified the undertaker that the
protective works have been completed to the engineer’s reasonable satisfaction
with such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

86.5

The undertaker must pay to the Canal & River Trust a capitalised sum
representing the reasonably increased or reasonable additional cost of
maintaining and, when necessary, renewing any specified works or permanent
protective works provided under sub-paragraph (3) above, for which the Canal &
River Trust is liable to maintain, and of carrying out any additional dredging
of the waterway reasonably necessitated by the exercise of any of the powers
under this Order. If the cost of maintaining the waterway, or of works of
renewal of the waterway, is reduced in consequence of any such works, a
capitalised sum representing such reasonable saving is to be set off against
any sum payable by the undertaker to the Canal & River Trust under this
paragraph.

86.6

In the event that the undertaker fails to complete the construction of, or
part of, the specified works the Canal & River Trust may, if it is reasonably
required in order to avoid detriment, serve on the undertaker a notice in
writing requesting that construction be completed. Any notice served under
this sub-paragraph must state the works that are to be completed by the
undertaker and lay out a reasonable timetable for the works’ completion. If
the undertaker fails to comply with this notice within 35 days, the Canal &
River Trust may undertake protective works to make safe the area and avoid
detriment, excluding any works to the pipeline itself, and the undertaker must
reimburse the Canal & River Trust all costs, fees, charges and expenses it has
reasonably incurred in carrying out such works.

86.7

The undertaker and the Canal & River Trust must engage in good faith to agree
the works and timeframe in the notice served under this paragraph prior to its
service upon the undertaker.

###### Design of works

87

87.1

Without prejudice to its obligations under the foregoing provisions of this
Part of this Schedule and subject to safety requirements and compliance with
this Order the undertaker must engage in good faith and consult, collaborate
and respond constructively to any reasonable approach, suggestion, proposal or
initiative made by the Canal & River Trust in respect of works that materially
affect the Canal & River Trust’s network on—

87.1.a

the design and appearance of the specified works; and

87.1.b

the environmental effects of those works, having regard to such views as may
be expressed by the Canal & River Trust in response to such consultation
pursuant in particular to the requirements imposed on the Canal & River Trust
by section 22 (general environmental and recreational duties) of the British
Waterways Act 1995 and to the interest of the Canal & River Trust in
preserving and enhancing the environment of its waterways; and

87.1.c

amendments or alterations to the CEMP (as may be approved pursuant to
paragraph 5 of Part 1 of Schedule 2) in respect of a specified work or a
protective work or otherwise in connection therewith; and

87.1.d

any draft CTMP and/or any draft LEMP relating to a stage which contains a
specified work;

###### Notice of works

88

The undertaker must give to the engineer 30 days’ notice of its intention to
commence the construction of any of the specified works or protective works,
or, in the case of repair carried out in an emergency, such notice as may be
reasonably practicable so that, in particular, the Canal & River Trust may
where appropriate arrange for the publication of notices bringing those works
to the attention of users of the Canal & River Trust’s network.

###### Construction of specified works

89

89.1

Any specified works or protective works must, when commenced, be constructed—

89.1.a

as soon as reasonably practicable in accordance with the plans approved or
deemed to have been approved or settled as aforesaid and with any
specifications made under paragraphs 86 (approval of plans) and 87 (design of
works) of this Part;

89.1.b

under the supervision (if given) of the engineer;

89.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little detriment to the waterway as is
reasonably practicable;

89.1.d

in such manner as to cause as little inconvenience as is reasonably
practicable to the Canal & River Trust, its officers and agents and all other
persons lawfully using the waterways, except to the extent that temporary
obstruction has otherwise been agreed by the Canal & River Trust; and

89.1.e

in such a manner as to reasonably ensure that no materials other than water
are discharged or deposited into the waterway (subject always to paragraph
83(2) above); and

89.1.f

in compliance with the Code of Practice where relevant;

89.2

Nothing in this Order authorises the undertaker to make or maintain any
permanent works in or over the waterway so as to impede or prevent (whether by
reducing the width of the waterway or otherwise) the passage of any vessel
which is of a kind (as to its dimensions) for which the Canal & River Trust is
required by section 105(1)(b) and (2) of the Transport Act 1968  (to maintain
the waterway.

89.3

Following the completion of the construction of the specified works the
undertaker must restore the waterway to a condition no less satisfactory than
its condition immediately prior to the commencement of those works unless
otherwise agreed between the undertaker and the Canal & River Trust.

89.4

In assessing whether the condition of the waterway is no less satisfactory
than immediately prior to the works pursuant to sub-paragraph (3), the Canal &
River Trust and the undertaker must take account of any survey issued pursuant
to paragraph 85 (survey of waterway) and any other information agreed between
them pursuant to this Part.

###### Prevention of pollution

90

The undertaker must not in the course of constructing a specified work or a
protective work or otherwise in connection therewith do or permit anything
which is reasonably foreseeable to result in the pollution of the waterway or
the deposit of materials therein and must take such steps as the engineer may
reasonably require to avoid or make good any breach of its obligations under
this paragraph.

###### Access to work – provision of information

91

91.1

The undertaker on being given reasonable notice must—

91.1.a

at all reasonable times allow reasonable facilities to the engineer for access
to a specified work during its construction; and

91.1.b

supply the engineer with all such information as the engineer may reasonably
require with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

91.2

The Canal & River Trust on being given reasonable notice must—

91.2.a

at all reasonable times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker and its
agents for access to any works carried out by the Canal & River Trust under
this Part during their construction; and

91.2.b

supply the undertaker with such information as it may reasonably require with
regard to such works or the method of constructing them and the undertaker
must reimburse the Canal & River Trust’s reasonable costs in relation to the
supply of such information.

###### Alterations to the waterway

92

92.1

If during the construction of a specified work or a protective work or during
a period of twenty four (24) months after the completion of those works any
alterations or additions, either permanent or temporary, to the waterway are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of the specified work
or the protective work in order to avoid detriment, and the Canal & River
Trust gives to the undertaker reasonable notice of its intention to carry out
such alterations or additions (which must be specified in the notice), the
undertaker must pay to the Canal & River Trust the reasonable costs of those
alterations or additions including, in respect of any such alterations or
additions as are to be permanent, a capitalised sum representing the increase
of the costs which may be expected to be reasonably incurred by the Canal &
River Trust in maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing any such
alterations or additions.

92.2

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing the waterway is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving is to be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to the Canal & River Trust under this paragraph.

92.3

For the avoidance of doubt, while the Canal & River Trust may undertake works
under this paragraph, including works required to make safe the area, the
Canal & River Trust may not undertake any works to the pipeline, or works that
may endanger the pipeline, itself under this paragraph.

###### Maintenance of works

93

If at any time after the completion of a specified work or a protective work,
not being a work vested in the Canal & River Trust, the Canal & River Trust
gives notice to the undertaker informing it that it reasonably considers that
the state of maintenance of the specified work or protective work appears to
be such that the work is causing or likely to cause detriment, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put the work in such state of maintenance as not to cause such
detriment.

###### Repayment of the Canal & River Trust’s fees, etc.

94

The undertaker must repay to the Canal & River Trust in accordance with the
Code of Practice all fees, costs, charges and expenses reasonably incurred by
the Canal & River Trust—

94.a

in constructing any protective works reasonably required under the provisions
of paragraph 86(3)(a);

94.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction or repair
of a specified work and any protective works;

94.c

in respect of the employment during the construction of the specified works or
any protective works of any inspectors, watchmen and other persons whom it is
reasonably necessary to appoint for inspecting, watching and lighting any
waterway and for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable,
interference, obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or
failure of the specified works or any protective works;

94.d

in bringing the specified works or any protective works to the notice of users
of the Canal & River Trust’s network; and

94.e

in constructing and/or carrying out any measures related to any specified
works or protective works which are reasonably required by the Canal & River
Trust to ensure the safe navigation of the waterway save that nothing is to
require the Canal & River Trust to construct and/or carry out any measures.

###### Making good of detriment; compensation and indemnity, etc.

95

95.1

If any detriment is caused by the construction or failure of the specified
works or the protective works if carried out by the undertaker, the undertaker
(if so required by the Canal & River Trust) must make good such detriment and
must pay to the Canal & River Trust all reasonable expenses properly incurred
by the Canal & River Trust, and compensation for any loss sustained by the
Canal & River Trust in making good or otherwise by reason of the detriment,
provided that at all times Canal & River Trust will be under an obligation to
take reasonable steps to mitigate its loss, and always excluding any
consequential loss or indirect losses.

95.2

The undertaker must be responsible for and make good to the Canal & River
Trust all costs, charges, damages, expenses and losses not otherwise provided
for in this Part which may be occasioned to and reasonably incurred by the
Canal & River Trust—

95.2.a

by reason of the construction of a specified work or a protective work or the
failure of such a work; or

95.2.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon the construction of
a specified work or protective work;

and subject to sub-paragraph (4) the undertaker must effectively indemnify and
hold harmless the Canal & River Trust from and against all claims and demands
arising out of or in connection with any of the matters referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b), provided that at all times Canal & River Trust will be
under an obligation to take reasonable steps to mitigate its loss, and always
excluding any consequential loss or indirect loss.

95.3

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by the Canal & River Trust
on behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with plans approved by the
engineer or in accordance with any requirement of the engineer or under the
engineer’s supervision or in accordance with any directions or awards of an
arbitrator is not to (if it was done without negligence on the part of the
Canal & River Trust or of any person in its employ or of its contractors or
agents) excuse the undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this
paragraph.

95.4

Nothing in sub-paragraph (2) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any detriment, damage, loss or interruption to the extent that it
is attributable to the act, neglect or default of the Canal & River Trust, its
officers, servants, contractors or agents.

95.5

The Canal & River Trust must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand as aforesaid and no settlement or compromise of such a claim
or demand is to be made without the prior consent of the undertaker.

###### Arbitration

96

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the Canal & River Trust
under this Part (other than a difference as to the meaning or construction of
this Part) must be referred to and settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 47 (arbitration) of this Order.

###### Capitalised sums

97

Any capitalised sum which is required to be paid under this Part must be
calculated by multiplying the reasonable cost of the maintenance or renewal
works to the waterway necessitated as a result of the operation of the
authorised development by the number of times that the maintenance or renewal
works will be required during the operation of the authorised development.

##### For the protection of SP Manweb

###### Application

98

The following provisions have effect for the protection of SP Manweb unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and SP Manweb.

###### Interpretation

99

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to
enable SP Manweb to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less
efficient than previously (to the reasonable satisfaction of SP Manweb);
“ apparatus ” means electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the 1989
Act, belonging to or maintained by SP Manweb together with any replacement
apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to the Order that
becomes operational apparatus of SP Manweb for the purposes of transmission,
distribution and/or supply and includes any structure in which apparatus is or
will be lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus;           “
authorised development ” has the same meaning as is given to the term
“authorised development” in article 2(1) of this Order and for the purposes of
this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the authorised
development and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“ commence ” has the same meaning as in article 2 of this Order and
commencement must be construed to have the same meaning;           “ deed of
consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary and/or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such
interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry
out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the
terms of this Part of this Schedule;           “ functions ” includes powers
and duties;           “in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative
apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus
under, over, across, along or upon such land;           “maintain” and “
maintenance ” includes the ability and right to do any of the following in
relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of SP Manweb including
construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus;
“ non-intrusive works ” means any of the authorised development or activities
undertaken in association with the authorised development which will or may be
situated underneath electrical lines, or otherwise within 15 meters (measured
in any direction) of any apparatus the removal of which has not been required
by the undertaker under paragraph 102(2) or otherwise, but which:         is
situated further than 15 meters from any electrical plant or electricity tower
foundations the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 102(2) or otherwise; and           is not reasonably likely to
adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by
the undertaker under paragraph 102(2) or otherwise;                 “plan” or
“plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed;           “ protective works ” means the underpinning,
strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to prevent damage
that may be caused by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development;           “ SP Manweb ” means SP Manweb PLC (Company No.
02366937) whose registered office is at 3 Prenton Way, Prenton, CH43 3ET or
any successor company;           “ specified works ” means any of the
authorised development or activities undertaken in association with the
authorised development which:         will or may be situated over, or within
15 metres (measured in any direction) of any apparatus the removal of which
has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 102(2) or otherwise;
is reasonably likely to adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which
has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 102(2) or otherwise;
and/or           include any of the activities that are referred to in SP
Manweb’s polices for development near overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance
note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Lines”.

###### On Street Apparatus

100

Except for paragraphs 104, 105 and 106 of this Part of this Schedule which
will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the Order
affecting the rights and apparatus of SP Manweb, the other provisions of this
Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between
the undertaker and SP Manweb are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act.

###### Acquisition of land

101

101.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land interest of SP
Manweb or appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any
easement or other interest or right and/or apparatus of SP Manweb otherwise
than by agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

101.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out of any part of the authorised development (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between SP Manweb and the undertaker) that are
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement and/or other legal or land
interest of SP Manweb and/or affects the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between SP Manweb and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as SP Manweb reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between SP Manweb and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no
less favourable on the whole to SP Manweb unless otherwise agreed by SP
Manweb, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure and/or
secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all other
third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected by
such authorised development.

101.3

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus (including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by SP Manweb and/or other enactments relied upon by SP Manweb as
of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in
this Schedule must prevail.

101.4

No agreement or consent granted by SP Manweb under any other paragraph of this
Part of this Schedule constitutes agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

102

102.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 101
or in any other authorised manner, including in the exercise of powers
conferred by this Order, the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in
which any apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this
Part of this Schedule and any right of SP Manweb to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of SP Manweb
in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5) inclusive.

102.2

If, for the purpose of executing any specified works in, on, under or over any
land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to SP
Manweb at least 56 days’ advance written notice of that requirement, together
with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order SP
Manweb reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must,
subject to sub-paragraph (3), secure any necessary consents for the
alternative apparatus and afford to SP Manweb to its satisfaction (taking into
account paragraph 105(1) below) the necessary facilities and rights—

102.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

102.2.b

subsequently for the use and maintenance of that apparatus.

102.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, SP Manweb must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

102.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such position as may be agreed between SP Manweb and the undertaker.

102.5

SP Manweb must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed
has been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to SP Manweb of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

102.6

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus/including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by SP Manweb and/or other enactments relied upon by SP Manweb as
of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in
this Schedule must prevail.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

103

103.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for SP Manweb facilities and rights in land
for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus
in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must
be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
undertaker and SP Manweb acting reasonably and must be no less favourable on
the whole to SP Manweb than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect
of the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by SP Manweb.

103.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
SP Manweb under sub-paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and
rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to SP Manweb than
the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject in the matter will be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 110 of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to SP Manweb as
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case. In respect of the appointment of an
arbitrator under this sub-paragraph, article 49 (arbitration) applies.

###### Retained apparatus: Protection of SP Manweb as Electricity Undertaker

104

104.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works, the
undertaker must submit to SP Manweb a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from SP Manweb details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

104.2

In relation to specified works which will or may be situated on, over, under
or within (i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii)
involve embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to SP Manweb under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement
and describe—

104.2.a

the exact position of the specified works;

104.2.b

the level at which the specified works are proposed to be constructed or
renewed;

104.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

104.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

104.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

104.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

104.3

In relation to any specified works which will or may be situated on, over,
under or within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity
support or between any two or more adjacent electricity supports which are
within the Order limits or within 10 metres of the Order limits, the plan to
be submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement which, in
addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph (2), must—

104.3.a

describe details of any pipeline trench design including route, dimensions,
clearance to support foundations;

104.3.b

demonstrate that support foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

104.3.c

describe load bearing capacities of trench supporting structures;

104.3.d

describe details of any pipeline installation methodology including access
arrangements, jointing bays and backfill methodology;

104.3.e

provide a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction
and ongoing maintenance of the pipeline corridor;

104.3.f

provide written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the
pipeline, including frequency and method of access;

104.3.g

provide an assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by SP
Manweb’s engineers;

104.3.h

provide evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to 26 tonnes
to take the weight of overhead line construction traffic.

104.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraph (2) or (3)
applies until SP Manweb has given written approval of the plan so submitted
provided that SP Manweb must not unreasonably delay notification of its
approval or disapproval.

104.5

Any approval of SP Manweb required under sub-paragraph (2)—

104.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

104.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

104.6

If after the expiry of 56 days SP Manweb has not communicated approval or
disapproval, SP Manweb is deemed to have approved the plans as supplied.

104.7

In relation to any work requiring the submission of a plan under sub-paragraph
(1), SP Manweb may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may
be reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus and SP Manweb must
notify the undertaker of such modifications within a period of 56 days
beginning with the date on which the plan required under sub-paragraph (1) has
been submitted to SP Manweb.

104.8

Works requiring the submission of a plan under sub-paragraph (1) must only be
executed in accordance with the plan as approved or as amended from time to
time by agreement between the undertaker and SP Manweb and in accordance with
such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(5), (7), (9) or (10) by SP Manweb for the alteration or otherwise for the
protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and SP Manweb will
be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

104.9

Where SP Manweb reasonably requires any protective works to be carried out by
itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to SP Manweb’s reasonable satisfaction prior to the commencement of any
relevant part of the authorised development for which protective works are
required and SP Manweb must give notice of its requirement for such works
within 56 days from the date of submission of a plan pursuant to sub-paragraph
(1) or (7) (except in an emergency).

104.10

If SP Manweb in accordance with sub-paragraphs (7) or (9) and in consequence
of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of
any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) and (5) to (8) apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 102(2).

104.11

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph must apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

104.12

The undertaker must not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to SP Manweb notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a
plan of those works and must—

104.12.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (7), (8) and (9) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

104.12.b

comply with sub-paragraph (13) at all times.

104.13

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with statutory requirements and guidelines for
development near overhead lines EN43-8, HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of
Danger from Overhead Lines”, and any other appropriate guidance in relation to
any apparatus and aligning with SP Manweb guidelines.

104.14

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any non-intrusive works, the
undertaker must notify and submit to SP Manweb a plan of the works to be
executed, noting that approval of plans for non-intrusive works is not
required.

###### Expenses

105

105.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to SP Manweb within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim from SP
Manweb all reasonable charges, costs and expenses reasonably and properly
incurred by SP Manweb in the execution of any authorised development, always
excluding any consequential loss or indirect loss, and including without
limitation in respect of—

105.1.a

any costs reasonably and properly incurred by or compensation properly paid by
SP Manweb in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of
statutory powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs
incurred by SP Manweb as a consequence of SP Manweb;

105.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 102(3); and/or

105.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting SP Manweb;

105.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

105.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

105.1.d

the approval of plans;

105.1.e

the carrying out of reasonable protective works (including any reasonable
temporary protective works and their removal);

105.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

105.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

105.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

105.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

105.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 110 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to SP Manweb by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

105.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

105.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

105.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

105.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to SP Manweb in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on SP Manweb any financial benefit
by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course,
be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

106

106.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason of the construction of any
such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or of the construction,
use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development by or on
behalf of the undertaker or of any act or default of the undertaker (or any
person employed or authorised by it) in the course of carrying out such works,
including without limitation works carried out by the undertaker under this
Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised development) or property
of SP Manweb, or if there is any interruption in any service provided, or in
the supply of any goods by SP Manweb, or SP Manweb becomes liable to pay any
amount to any third party, the undertaker must—

106.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim and associated
itemised accounting from from SP Manweb the cost reasonably and properly
incurred by SP Manweb in making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

106.1.b

indemnify SP Manweb for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalties or costs incurred by or recovered from SP Manweb,
by reason of any such damage or interruption or SP Manweb becoming liable to
any third party as aforesaid other than arising from any default of SP Manweb

always excluding any consequential loss or indirect loss and provided that at
all times SP Manweb will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps to
mitigate its loss.

106.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by SP Manweb on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by SP Manweb or in
accordance with any requirement of SP Manweb as a consequence of the
authorised development or under its supervision does not (unless sub-paragraph
(3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this paragraph where the undertaker fails to carry out and execute the works
properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workmanlike manner
or in a manner that does not materially accord with the approved plan (or as
otherwise agreed between the undertaker and SP Manweb pursuant to paragraph
105).

106.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) will impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of-

106.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of SP Manweb, its officers, employees, contractors or
agents;

106.3.b

any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Part of
this Schedule carried out by SP Manweb as an assignee, transferee or lessee of
the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the
2008 Act or article 7 (benefit of the Order) subject to the proviso that once
such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any authorised development yet
to be executed and not falling within this sub-paragraph 3(b) will be subject
to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including this paragraph in
respect of such new apparatus; and / or

106.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption.

106.4

SP Manweb must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or demand
and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, is to
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering its
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

107

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between SP Manweb and the undertaker,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule will affect the provisions of any
enactment or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and SP
Manweb in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

108

108.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or SP Manweb requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 102(2) or SP Manweb makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 104, the undertaker must
use all reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of SP Manweb’s undertaking and SP Manweb must use all reasonable
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

108.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever SP Manweb’s consent, agreement or approval
is required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
the undertaker or the taking of action by SP Manweb is required, it must not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

109

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 101(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable SP Manweb to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

110

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 102(2), 102(4),
103(1) and 104 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and SP
Manweb under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and SP Manweb, determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 47 (arbitration).

###### Notices

111

Notwithstanding article 45 (service of notices), any plans submitted to SP
Manweb by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be sent to such address as
SP Manweb may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to
the undertaker in writing.

##### Protection of CF Fertilisers UK Limited

112

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and CF Fertilisers.

113

In this Part—

      “ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and
reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings;
“ CF Fertilisers ” means CF Fertilisers UK Limited (company number 03455690),
whose registered office is at Head Office Building, Ince, Chester, Cheshire,
United Kingdom, CH2 4LB and any associated company of CF Fertilisers UK
Limited which holds relevant property;           “ relevant property ” means—
any land, works, apparatus and equipment belonging to CF Fertilisers; and
any easement or other property interest held or used by CF Fertilisers or a
tenant or licensee of CF Fertilisers for the purposes of such land, works,
apparatus or equipment.

###### Rights of access

114

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker-

114.a

must not extinguish any rights of access to the relevant property granted to
CF Fertilisers otherwise than by agreement (both parties acting reasonably);

114.b

must provide a minimum of two working days notification prior to entry to the
relevant property; and

114.c

must keep any existing roads used for access to the relevant property by CF
Fertilisers clear from obstruction as far as reasonably practicable.

###### Expenses

115

Nothing in this Part imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of CF
Fertilisers or its servants, contractors or agents or any liability on CF
Fertilisers with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable
to the negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors or agents.

116

The undertaker must pay to CF Fertilisers all reasonable and proper costs,
charges, damages and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this
Schedule (but always excluding any consequential loss or indirect loss) which
may be reasonably incurred by CF Fertilisers in respect of any damage caused
to or additional maintenance required to relevant property as a direct result
of the construction of the authorised development.

117

117.1

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker shall not be liable for any consequential loss or indirect loss
suffered by CF Fertilisers as a result of the construction of the authorised
development and CF Fertilisers shall not be liable for any consequential loss
or indirect loss suffered by the undertaker as a result of the construction of
the authorised development.

117.2

CF Fertilisers must-

117.2.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such sums referred to in
paragraph 116 as soon as reasonably possible after CF Fertilisers become aware
of the same;

117.2.b

not make any offers to settle claims or demands without the prior consent of
the undertaker;

117.2.c

take all reasonable steps to mitigate any liabilities; and

117.2.d

keep the undertaker informed and have regard to the undertaker’s
representations in relation to any such sums referred to in paragraph 116.

##### For the protection of Wales and West Utilities

118

For the protection of Wales and West Utilities as referred to in this part of
this Schedule the provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and Wales and West Utilities.

119

In this Part—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Wales and West Utilities to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less
efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means all mains, pipes or
other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Wales and West Utilities for the
purposes of carrying out its statutory undertaking and includes any structure
in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus;           “ authorised development ” has the same meaning as in
article 2 (interpretation) of this Order and (unless otherwise specified) for
the purposes of this Schedule shall include associated development and the
construction, use, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
development and the construction of any authorised development;           “
functions ” includes powers and duties;           “in” in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;           “ plan
” includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed;           “ protective works ” means the underpinning, strengthening
and any other works the purpose of which is to prevent damage that may be
caused by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development;
“ security infrastructure ” includes cameras, perimeter fencing, fencing and
gates and any other security measures required in order to ensure an
appropriate level of security in respect of the authorised development or any
apparatus;           “ specified work ” means so much of any of the works
comprised in the authorised development or activities undertaken in
association with the authorised development which:         are in, on or under
any land purchased, leased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that
are within 15 metres of, or will or may in any way affect, any apparatus the
removal of which is not required under paragraph 123 of this Part of this
Schedule; and/or           will or may be situated within 4 metres measured in
any direction of any security infrastructure belonging to or maintained by
Wales and West Utilities;                 “ WWU standards ” means Wales and
West Utilities Limited specification for safe working in the vicinity of
pipelines and associated installations operating above 2 barg – requirements
for third parties (SSW22) and Plant Protection General Conditions; and
“ Wales and West Utilities ” means Wales and West Utilities Limited (Company
No. 05046791) whose registered office is at Wales & West House, Spooner Close
Coedkernew, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8FZ and includes any successor in title
or any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas
Act 1986.

###### Apparatus in streets

120

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Wales and West Utilities are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

121

Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of public rights
of way or streets under the powers conferred by article 13 (temporary
restriction of public right of way) and 15 (temporary restriction of use of
streets), Wales and West Utilities is at liberty at all times to take all
reasonably necessary access across any such public right of way or street and
to execute and do all such works and things in upon or under any such public
right of way or street as may be reasonably necessary to enable it to maintain
any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction was in that
public right of way or street.

###### Acquisition of land

122

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker must not
(a) appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of apparatus or (b)
appropriate, acquire or extinguish interfere with or override any easement,
other interest or right and/or apparatus any apparatus belonging to or
maintained by Wales and West Utilities otherwise than by agreement, provided
that such agreement is not unreasonably delayed or withheld.

###### Removal of apparatus

123

123.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 118, the undertaker
acquires any interest in, on or under any land in which any apparatus is
placed or over which access is enjoyed and requires Wales and West Utilities’
apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be decommissioned
or removed under this Part, and any right of Wales and West Utilities to
maintain that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it must not be
extinguished or interfered with until alternative apparatus has been
constructed and is in operation and the facilities and rights referred to in
sub-paragraph (2) to the reasonable satisfaction of Wales and West Utilities.

123.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
leased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires
the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Wales and West Utilities at least 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan, description, risk assessment method statement and
section drawing of the work proposed which complies with WWU standards, and of
the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed; and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of
the powers conferred by this Order Wales and West Utilities reasonably needs
to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph
(3), afford to Wales and West Utilities the necessary facilities and rights
for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker
and subsequently for the maintenance of and access to that apparatus and any
appropriate working areas.

123.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, Wales and West Utilities must, on receipt of a written notice to
that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use reasonable
endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which
the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

123.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as
may be agreed between Wales and West Utilities and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 47
(arbitration).

123.5

Wales and West Utilities must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided
or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 47 (arbitration), and after the grant to Wales and West Utilities of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove or decommission any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be removed or decommissioned under the
provisions of this Part.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

124

124.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to Wales and West Utilities facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed or decommissioned, those facilities and rights
must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
undertaker and Wales and West Utilities or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration).

124.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus to
be constructed in or along the authorised development, the arbitrator must—

124.2.a

give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus that
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker;

124.2.b

so far as it may be reasonable and practicable to do so in the circumstances
of the particular case, give effect to the terms and conditions, if any,
applicable to the apparatus constructed in or along the authorised project for
which the alternative apparatus is to be substituted; and

124.2.c

avoid any unreasonable adverse impact on Wales and West Utilities’ operations
or apparatus.

124.3

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Wales and West Utilities than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the
terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to Wales and West Utilities as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

125

125.1

Not less than 42 days before starting the execution of any specified works in,
on or under any land purchased, leased, held, appropriated or used under this
Order that are near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 123(2), the
undertaker must submit to Wales and West Utilities a plan, section drawing,
description of the works to be executed and a risk assessment method statement
which comply with WWU standards.

125.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section
drawing, description and risk assessment method statement submitted under sub-
paragraph (1) and in accordance with WWU standards and such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by Wales and
West Utilities for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Wales and West Utilities is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

125.3

Any requirements made by Wales and West Utilities under sub-paragraph (2) must
be made within a period of 42 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section drawing, description, and risk assessment method statement under sub-
paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

125.4

If Wales and West Utilities, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal or decommissioning of any apparatus or any reasonably necessary
protective works and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, the provisions of this Part apply as if the removal or
decommissioning of the apparatus or the protective works had been required by
the undertaker under paragraph 123(2).

125.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 42 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan, section drawing,
description and risk assessment method statement previously submitted, and
having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the
new plan, section drawing, description and risk assessment method statement.

125.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Wales and West Utilities notice as
soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section drawing, description and
risk assessment method statement of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

125.7

Where the specified works only include ground investigation or PAS128 Cat A
surveys, all timeframes in this paragraph shall be reduced to 14 days.

###### Expenses and costs

126

126.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Wales and West Utilities within 30 days of a request by Wales and
West Utilities the reasonable expenses agreed with the undertaker in advance
and reasonably incurred by Wales and West Utilities in the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
security infrastructure of the construction of any new apparatus or security
infrastructure which may be required in direct consequence of the execution of
any such works as are referred to in paragraph 123(2) or any specified work,
but always provided that the undertaker shall not be liable under any
circumstances for any consequential loss or indirect loss suffered by Wales
and West Utilities.

126.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part must be
deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that value being
calculated after removal.

126.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

126.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

126.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration) to be necessary then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part
exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been
of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the
case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable
to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

126.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

126.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

126.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

126.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Wales and
West Utilities in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Wales and
West Utilities any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of
the apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

127

127.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 6(2) or any specified
work any damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of
which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of those works) or property of Wales and West Utilities, or there is
any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
Wales and West Utilities, the undertaker must—

127.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Wales and West Utilities in
making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

127.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Wales and West Utilities for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by Wales and West
Utilities,

as a direct result of any such damage or interruption and always provided that
the undertaker shall not be liable under any circumstances for any
consequential loss or indirect loss suffered by Wales and West Utilities.

127.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Wales and West Utilities, its officers,
servants, contractors or agents.

127.3

Wales and West Utilities must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker unless payment is required and the level specified
in accordance with a statutory compensation scheme and, if such consent is
withheld, the undertaker has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise
or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand provided that
the undertaker consults Wales and West Utilities and takes any representations
it makes into account.

###### Enactments and agreements

128

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and Wales and West Utilities
in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### Protection for Welsh Water

129

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Welsh Water.

130

In this Part—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means—
mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that water
undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and           any drain or works
vested in the sewerage undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991; and
any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to
adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of
that Act or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 (agreements to adopt
sewer, drain or sewerage disposal works, at future date) of that Act;   and
includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219
(general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes,
ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer,
drain or works,

and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus;

      “ functions ” includes powers and duties;           “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;           “
plan ” includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and           “ utility undertaker ” means—         a water
undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and           a
sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act
1991,   and in relation to any apparatus, means the utility undertaker to whom
it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

131

This Part does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Acquisition of land

132

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

133

133.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part, and any right of a utility
undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be extinguished
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question.

133.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed; and in that case (or if
in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

133.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

133.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as
may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and the undertaker or
in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 47
(arbitration).

133.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 49 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part.

133.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work, in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

133.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

134

134.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
utility undertaker in question or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 49 (arbitration).

134.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus to
be constructed in or along the authorised development, the arbitrator must—

134.2.a

give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus that
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker; and

134.2.b

so far as it may be reasonable and practicable to do so in the circumstances
of the particular case, give effect to the terms and conditions, if any,
applicable to the apparatus constructed in or along the authorised project for
which the alternative apparatus is to be substituted.

134.3

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

135

135.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 133(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

135.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

135.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under
sub-paragraph (is submitted to it.

135.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, the provisions of this Part apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 133(2).

135.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

135.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (2)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

136

136.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker the reasonable expenses agreed with the
undertaker in advance and reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in
paragraph 133(2).

136.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part must be
deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that value being
calculated after removal.

136.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

136.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

136.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 47 (arbitration) to be necessary then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part
exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been
of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the
case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable
to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

136.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

136.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

136.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

136.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

137

137.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 133(2) any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility
undertaker, the undertaker must—

137.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

137.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

137.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

137.3

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the undertaker has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Miscellaneous

138

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility undertaker in
respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### For the protection of United Utilities Water Limited (UU Water)

###### Application

139

For the protection of UU Water the following provisions, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and UU Water, have effect.

###### Interpretation

140

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of UU Water to enable UU Water to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus
” means any treatment works, reservoirs, pumping stations, water mains,
sewers, drains, sludge mains, disposal mains, pipes or any accessories
(including those within the meaning of section 219 of the Water Industry Act
1991) vested in UU Water under the Water Industry Act 1991 and any preceding
legislation or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by UU Water for the
purposes of UU Water’s undertaking together with any replacement apparatus and
such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that becomes
operational apparatus of UU Water for the purposes of UU Water’s undertaking
and includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus;           “ authorised works ” has the
same meaning as is given to the term “authorised development” in article 2 of
the Order and for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use
and maintenance of the authorised works and construction of any works
authorised by this Schedule;           “ deed of consent ” means a deed of
consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed
between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing
easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to secure
land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and
use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this
Schedule;           “ Estimate ” means a reasonable estimate of the total
reasonable and proper costs that UU Water expects to incur in respect of staff
and orders or instructions that need to be given to UU Water’s vendors in its
supply chain or to third party organisations to obtain their consent in
respect of the specified works.           “facilities and rights” for
construction and for maintenance include any appropriate working areas
required to reasonably and safely undertake that construction or maintenance
activity, and any necessary rights of access;           “ functions ” includes
powers and duties;           “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme
approved by UU Water (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence
event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring
ground conditions and vibration which sets out the apparatus which is to be
subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in
which ground levels and water supplies are to be monitored (including
turbidity), the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence, dewatering and / or vibration which, if exceeded, shall
require the undertaker to submit for UU Water’s approval a ground mitigation
scheme;           “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence,
ground dewatering or vibration identified by the monitoring activities set out
in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded or reasonably has the
potential to exceed the level described in the ground monitoring scheme as
requiring a ground mitigation scheme;           “ in ” (in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land) includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such
land;           “maintain” and “maintenance” have effect as if the term
maintain includes protect and use;           “plan” or “plans” include all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary to properly and sufficiently describe and assess the
works to be executed;           “ protective works ” means any works that are
reasonably necessary to protect UU Water’s services to its customers and its
apparatus from damage that may be caused by the carrying out, maintenance or
use of the authorised development;           “ rights ” includes restrictive
covenants and, in relation to decommissioned apparatus, the surrender of
rights, release of liabilities and transfer of decommissioned apparatus;
“ specified works ” means any of the authorised works or activities (including
maintenance) undertaken in association with the authorised development
(including maintenance and notwithstanding the definition of “commence” in
Article 2 of this Order) including but not limited to any intrusive site
preparation works, intrusive remediation works, intrusive surveys and
investigations (including archaeological, utility or soil surveys), erection
of temporary fencing requiring intrusive supports, intrusive marking out of
site boundaries, diversion or laying of services or intrusive environmental
mitigation measures and any such temporary access by HGVs or LGVs that may be
required in association with these, and which—         when involving a pipe
up to and including 300mm in diameter, will or may be situated over, or within
3000mm measured in any direction of any apparatus, the removal of which has
not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph 144(2) or otherwise;
when involving a pipe exceeding 300mm in diameter, will or may be situated
over, or within 5000mm measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal
of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph 144(2) or
otherwise; or           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph
144(2) or otherwise;                 “ UU Water ” means United Utilities Water
Limited (company number 02366678), registered office at Haweswater House,
Lingley Mere Business Park, Lingley Green Avenue, Great Sankey, Warrington,
WA5 3LP and includes its successors in title or any successor as a water and
sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and
“ UU Water’s undertaking ” means the rights, duties and obligations of United
Utilities Water Limited as a water and sewerage undertaker under the Water
Industry Act 1991.

###### Apparatus of UU Water stopped up in street

141

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of use of
any street under the powers of article 15 (temporary restriction of use of
streets) UU Water will be at liberty at all times to take all necessary access
across any such street and to execute and do all such works and things in,
upon or under any such street as it would have been entitled to do immediately
before such temporary alteration, diversion or restriction in respect of any
apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that
street.

###### Discharge of Water, foul and surface water

142

142.1

If the undertaker proposes to connect foul water to a public sewer operated by
UU Water, the undertaker shall give to UU Water notice of the proposal, and
within 42 days of the receipt by them of the notice, UU Water may refuse
permission for the connection but only if it has reasonable grounds for doing
so, or it may grant permission for the connection or alteration, subject to
such reasonable conditions as it thinks fit acting reasonably. Any such
permission may in particular specify the mode and point of connection.

142.2

If the undertaker proposes to connect surface water to a public sewer operated
by UU Water, the undertaker shall give to UU Water notice of the proposal, and
within 42 days of the receipt by them of the notice, UU Water may refuse
permission for the connection, but only if it has reasonable grounds for doing
so, or it may grant permission for the connection or alteration, subject to
such reasonable conditions as it thinks fit acting reasonably. Any such
permission may in particular specify the mode, the point of connection, the
rate of discharge and the size of any attenuation necessary. UU Water shall be
entitled to refuse any connection where the sustainable drainage system
hierarchy for managing surface water has not been reasonably investigated and
/ or sustainable drainage has not been incorporated within the proposed
surface water drainage to the satisfaction of UU Water.

142.3

Where there are separate public sewers for foul water and surface water, UU
Water may prohibit the discharge of foul water into the public sewer reserved
for surface water, and prohibit the discharge of surface water into the public
sewer reserved for foul water.

142.4

Where UU Water has not granted or refused permission under this paragraph
within 42 days from the receipt of notice of a proposal the permission shall
be deemed to be granted

142.5

Nothing in this section entitles the undertaker to:

142.5.a

discharge in to a public sewer (directly or indirectly), highway drainage,
groundwater, trade effluent or any liquid or other matter, the discharge of
which in to a public sewer is prohibited by or under any enactment; or

142.5.b

have drains or sewers that communicate directly with a storm water overflow.

###### Protective works to buildings

143

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of UU Water (such consent not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and if by reason of the exercise of those
powers any damage to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in the view of its intended removal or
abandonment) or property of UU Water or any interruption in the supply of
water and the provision of sewerage services by UU Water, as the case may be,
is caused, the undertaker must bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably
incurred and documented by UU Water in making good such damage or restoring
the supply; and, shall pay compensation to UU Water for any loss sustained by
reason of any such damage or interruption.

###### Removal of apparatus

144

144.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 143, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed and any right of UU Water to
maintain that apparatus in that land must not be extinguished or interfered
with until alternative apparatus has been constructed, is in operation, and
the facilities and rights referred to in sub-paragraph (2) have been provided,
to the reasonable satisfaction of UU Water and in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

144.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to UU
Water advance written notice of not less than 70 days of that requirement,
together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed
position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in
that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred
by this Order UU Water reasonably needs to move or remove any of its
apparatus) the undertaker must afford to UU Water to its reasonable
satisfaction the necessary facilities and rights—

144.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus (including appropriate working
areas required to reasonably and safely undertake necessary works by UU Water
in respect of the apparatus);

144.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus (including appropriate
working areas required to reasonably and safely undertake necessary works by
UU Water in respect of the apparatus); and

144.2.c

to allow access to that apparatus (including appropriate working areas
required to reasonably and safely undertake necessary works by UU Water in
respect of the apparatus).

144.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus
or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, UU Water must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the undertaker in
obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation will not
extend to the requirement for UU Water to use its compulsory purchase powers
to this end unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

144.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such position as may be agreed between UU Water and the undertaker,
each acting reasonably.

144.5

UU Water must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed
has been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to UU Water of such facilities
and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), then proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring in to operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the
provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

145

145.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for UU Water facilities and rights in land
for the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and UU Water, each acting reasonably, and must be no
less favourable on the whole to UU Water than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or removed
unless otherwise agreed by UU Water.

145.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
UU Water under sub- paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and
the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to
be granted, are less favourable on the whole to UU Water than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed, then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights
are subject may be referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 149 of
this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of reasonable compensation by the undertaker to UU Water as appears to
the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of UU Water

146

146.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to UU Water a plan and, if reasonably required by UU
Water, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

146.2

The plan to be submitted to UU Water under sub-paragraph (1) must include a
method statement and describe—

146.2.a

the exact position of the works;

146.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

146.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of

146.2.d

excavation, positioning of plant etc.;

146.2.e

the position of all apparatus, identified if necessary by survey or
investigation works carried out with the prior agreement and to the reasonable
satisfaction of UU Water;

146.2.f

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

146.2.g

any intended maintenance regimes.

146.3

the undertaker must not commence any specified works until UU Water has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

146.4

Any approval of UU Water given under sub-paragraph (3)—

146.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5); and

146.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and UU Water and any approval or
refusal must be provided to the undertaker within 56 days of the date of
submission of the plan under sub-paragraph (1).

146.5

UU Water may require protective works or such modifications to be made to the
plan as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of maintaining services to
its customers, or securing its apparatus against interference or risk of
damage, or for the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient
means of access to any apparatus.

146.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

146.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and UU Water; and

146.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a), and UU Water will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

146.7

Where UU Water reasonably requires any protective works or such modifications
to be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works or modifications, inclusive of any
measures or schemes required and approved as part of the plan approved
pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to UU Water’s reasonable
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant
part thereof) for which such protective works or modifications are required
prior to commencement.

146.8

If UU Water, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker,
reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to
the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 139 to 141 and 143 to 145 apply
as if the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 144(2).

146.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

146.10

As soon as is reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised works (including such an event attributable to
its maintenance)—

146.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

146.10.b

UU Water retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such reasonable and
documented costs in line with paragraph 147.

146.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to UU Water notice
as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a) insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

146.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to life or property or the
environment, and to any interruption of a supply of water provided to any
premises and to any interruption of the provision of sewerage services to any
premises.

###### Expenses

147

147.1

At the same time as any written notice is provided by UU Water in accordance
with paragraph 146(8), UU Water shall also submit an Estimate to the
undertaker.

147.2

If the undertaker elects that it will proceed with the specified works it
shall make an advance payment of the Estimate to UU Water no later than 28
days prior to the planned commencement of the specified works. The undertaker
shall not commence the specified works until a minimum of 28 days of receipt
by UU Water of the advance payment.

147.3

If at any point UU Water’s Estimate is forecast to be exceeded, UU Water shall
submit an early warning notification and then a change request documenting all
costs already incurred and forecast to be reasonably incurred and submit an
updated Estimate to the undertaker no less than 28 days prior to the Estimate
being reasonably expected to be exceeded. The undertaker shall make such
additional payment required by the updated Estimate as soon as reasonably
possible and in any event no later than 56 days after receipt of the updated
Estimate.

147.4

Where the undertaker fails to make such additional payment required under sub-
paragraph (3) within 56 days of receipt of the updated Estimate, UU Water will
be entitled to require the undertaker to suspend works from the point at which
the charges, costs and expenses reach or exceed the Estimate. In addition any
reasonable abortive/demobilisation costs resulting from this would be
recoverable by UU Water from the undertaker.

147.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of costs included in an
updated Estimate submitted under sub-paragraph (3), UU Water must not exercise
the powers of sub-paragraph (4) until the dispute has been finally determined.

147.6

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, UU Water’ will retain
an account of all its direct charges, costs and expenses reasonably incurred
and documented by UU Water in the design, planning, inspection, removal,
relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the
construction of any new or alternative apparatus required as a direct result
of the execution of any authorised works including without limitation—

147.6.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by UU Water in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including reasonable costs (including professional fees)
incurred by UU Water as a consequence of UU Water;

147.6.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 5(3) if it elects to do so; or

147.6.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting UU Water;

147.6.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any necessary diversion
work or the provision of any alternative apparatus;

147.6.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

147.6.d

the approval of plans;

147.6.e

the carrying out of protective works;

147.6.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works, the provision of network contingency measures or the installation or
removal of any temporary works reasonably necessary in consequence of the
execution of any such works referred to in this Part of this Schedule;

147.6.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub-paragraph 145(6);

147.6.h

in connection with an assessment of flood risk from UU Water apparatus (note
above comment about whether this apparatus includes a reservoir);

147.6.i

in connection with an assessment of the impact on a UU Water outfall;

147.6.j

any relevant charges in accordance with the charges scheme under the Water
Industry Act 1991.

147.7

UU Water shall give the undertaker regular actual and forecast cost updates at
intervals to be agreed between UU Water and the undertaker, each acting
reasonably.

147.8

Within 90 days of completion of the specified works, UU Water shall reconcile
its accounts with its supply chain and collate its internal costs and advise
the undertaker of the final account position. Within 28 days of this final
account, UU shall reimburse the undertaker of all remaining monies that were
received as part of any advance payment arrangements. If the final account is
above the Estimate, the undertaker will be required to pay UU Water within 28
days of submission of the final account.

147.9

UU Water may in carrying out works, elect to place—

147.9.a

alternative apparatus of a better type, or greater capacity or of greater
dimensions in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions save where this has been solely due to using
the nearest currently available type (or where it is more economical overall
or there is no practical alternative to the relevant course of action,
including where the same is mandated by UU Water’s Standards); or

147.9.b

existing or alternative apparatus at a depth greater than the depth at which
the existing apparatus was situated save for where the requirement for a
greater depth cannot reasonably be avoided, (a “Betterment”).

147.10

The twinning of assets crossing the authorised works or similar initiatives to
provide resilience to UU Water’s network in accordance with the prevailing
business and engineering requirements may be necessary, in circumstances in
which the proposed authorised works will compromise the future access or
present an unacceptable operational or business risk to the relevant asset
(without interference with the authorised work), and such twinning or similar
arrangement is not Betterment. Where UU Water can demonstrate on a case by
case basis that the particular asset is critical (for example, it is critical
to the provision of water or wastewater services, or the authorised works
cannot accommodate a like for like asset replacement, or there is no
alternative means of maintaining services to customers by bypassing the asset
under the authorised works), the twinning of assets crossing the authorised
works or similar arrangement is not Betterment.

147.11

Where UU Water has elected to place apparatus which is assessed and agreed by
UU Water as Betterment, the undertaker shall not be required to cover any
additional cost associated with that Betterment. Any such assessment and
decision by UU Water on whether such apparatus is Betterment or not shall
always be made by UU Water acting reasonably.

###### Indemnity

148

148.1

If by reason of the authorised works any damage is caused to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of UU Water, or there is any material interruption in any
service provided, or in the supply of any goods by UU Water, or UU Water has
to take action to protect the services to its customers, or UU Water elects to
use its statutory powers, the undertaker must—

148.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by UU in making good such damage or
restoring the supply or use of the UU Water’s statutory powers; and

148.1.b

make reasonable compensation to UU Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs suffered or incurred and documented by UU Water, by
reason of any such damage or interruption or use of UU Water’s statutory
powers,

provided always that UU Water makes all reasonable endeavours to mitigate any
such expenses, losses, damages, penalties or costs.

148.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by UU Water on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by UU Water or in accordance
with any requirement of UU Water or under its supervision does not, excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions.

148.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of UU Water, its officers, servants, contractors
or agents.

148.4

Notwithstanding any paragraph or sub-paragraph of this Part of the Schedule,
the undertaker shall under no circumstances be liable for any consequential
loss or indirect loss suffered by UU Water.

###### Enactments and agreements

149

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise, nothing in this
Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and UU Water in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

150

150.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or UU Water requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph 144(2) or UU Water makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph 146, the undertaker must use all
reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of UU Water’s undertaking, using existing processes where requested
by UU Water, provided it is appropriate to do so, and UU Water must use its
reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

150.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever UU Water’s consent, agreement or approval
is required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
UU Water or the taking of action by UU Water, it must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.

150.3

Where the undertaker identifies any apparatus which may belong to or be
maintainable by UU Water but which does not appear on any statutory map kept
for the purpose by UU Water, it shall inform UU Water of the existence and
location of the apparatus as soon as is reasonably practicable.

150.4

Where UU Water identifies any apparatus which may belong to others but which
does not appear on any statutory map kept for the purpose by UU Water, it
shall inform the undertaker of the existence and location of the apparatus as
soon as is reasonably practicable.

150.5

The undertaker shall notify UU Water of any hazardous material/contamination
encountered in land involving UU apparatus or where sub-paragraphs (a), (b)
and/or (c) of the definition of Specified Works applies. UU Water shall
likewise notify the undertaker where it believes there is a risk that the
undertaker may encounter hazardous material/contamination in such land.

###### Access

151

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 139(1)
or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker shall seek to provide such alternative
rights and means of access to such apparatus, to the extent that provision of
such rights and means of access is within the ability of the undertaker to
grant, as will enable UU Water to maintain or use the apparatus no less
effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

152

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 141(4) any difference
or dispute arising between the undertaker and UU Water under this Part of this
Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and
UU Water, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 47
(arbitration).

###### Notices

153

Notwithstanding article 45 (service of notices) any plans submitted to UU
Water by the undertaker must be sent via email to UU Water s and sent to the
General Counsel Department at UU Water’s registered office or such other
address as UU Water may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and
notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### For the protection of United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited

154

For the protection of United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited

###### Application

155

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and UKOP.

###### Interpretation

156

In this Part—

      “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991;           “
alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable UKOP to
fulfil its functions as a private commercial fuel pipeline
operator/transporter in a manner no less efficient than previously;
“ apparatus ” means the whole or any part of any pipeline cable or other
apparatus owned or operated by UKOP (or its authorised agents) used in
connection with the transmission of hydrocarbon fuel together with any other
plant and equipment ancillary thereto (which includes any structure in which
apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus);           “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to
the term “authorised development” in article 2(1) of this Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“commence” and “commencement” in this Part of this Schedule shall include any
below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and
erection of construction plant and equipment;           “ deed(s) of consent ”
means any deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed
agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, leases, agreements, enactments and other such interests so
as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out,
maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms
of this Part of this Schedule;           “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a
scheme approved by UKOP (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence
event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring
ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such
monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground
levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and
the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the
undertaker to submit for UKOP’s approval a ground mitigation scheme;
“ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the
monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has
exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a
ground mitigation scheme;           “in” in a context referring to apparatus
or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or
alternative apparatus under, over across along or upon land;
“maintain” and “maintenance” shall include the ability and right to do any of
the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of UKOP
including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus;           “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed;           “
specified works ” means any of the authorised works or activities undertaken
in association with the authorised works which         will or may be situated
over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
157(2) or otherwise; and/or           may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 157(2) or otherwise;                 “ UKOP ” means United Kingdom
Oil Pipelines Limited (Co. No.00746709) whose registered office is at 5-7
Alexandra Road, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 5BS; and           “
undertaker ” means the undertaker as defined in article 2(1) of this Order.

###### On Street Apparatus

157

Except for paragraph 161 (retained apparatus) and 162 (expenses and costs) of
this Part of this Schedule which will apply in respect of the exercise of all
or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and apparatus of UKOP, the
other provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of
which the relations between the undertaker and UKOP are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Acquisition or possession of land

158

158.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not (a)
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any apparatus or (b)
appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any easement,
other interest or right and/or apparatus of UKOP otherwise than by agreement
(all such agreement(s) not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and unless
it grants replacement rights to UKOP in a form agreed between the parties in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 159 (Removal of apparatus) or
paragraph 160 (UKOP Replacement facilities and rights).

158.2

As a condition of any agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1),
prior to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between UKOP and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of UKOP or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between UKOP and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as UKOP reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between UKOP and the
undertaker, both acting reasonably, and which must be no less favourable on
the whole to UKOP unless otherwise agreed by UKOP, and it will be the
responsibility of the undertaker to procure and/or secure the consent and
entering into of such deeds and variations by all other third parties with an
interest in the land at that time who are affected by such authorised works.

158.3

The undertaker and UKOP agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including but not
limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation
and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement,
rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by UKOP
and/or other enactments relied upon by UKOP as of right or other use in
relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule shall prevail.

158.4

Any agreement or consent granted by UKOP under paragraph 161 or any other
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to constitute
agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

159

159.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that UKOP’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be
removed under this Part, and any right of UKOP to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of UKOP in
accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

159.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
UKOP advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the
work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order UKOP reasonably needs to remove
any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3),
secure any necessary consents for the alternative apparatus and afford to UKOP
to its reasonable satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 160(1) below)
the necessary facilities and rights

159.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

159.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

159.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, UKOP must, on receipt of a written notice
to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are reasonable in the
circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in
the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that
this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for UKOP to use its
compulsory purchase powers to this end.

159.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between UKOP and the
undertaker.

159.5

UKOP must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement having been entered
into between the parties and the grant to UKOP of any such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs (2) or (3), proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker
to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule

###### UKOP replacement facilities and rights

160

160.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker is to afford to or secure for UKOP facilities and rights in land
for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of apparatus either in
substitution for apparatus to be removed (or where existing rights are being
sterilized), deeds of consent must be granted upon such terms and conditions
as may be agreed between the undertaker and UKOP both acting reasonably and
must be no less favourable on the whole to UKOP than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it previously in respect of the apparatus unless otherwise agreed
by UKOP and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure and/or
secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all other
third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected by
such authorised works.

160.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1) above, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to
UKOP than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus
to be removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and
rights are subject, the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance
with paragraph 166 (Arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
UKOP as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

161

161.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to UKOP a plan and, if reasonably required by UKOP, a
ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works taking place within 20
metres of the apparatus.

161.2

The plan to be submitted to UKOP under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method
statement and describe—

161.2.a

the exact position of the works and details of any infrastructure machinery or
vehicles to be used in connection therewith;

161.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

161.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of all
excavation, positioning of plant etc and any works’ compounds;

161.2.d

the position of all apparatus and fencelines;

161.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

161.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

161.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated within 6.1 metres
measured in any direction of any apparatus (the removal of which has not been
required by the undertaker under paragraph 157(2) or otherwise), the plan to
be submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must also describe—

161.3.a

details of any trench design including route, dimensions and clearance to the
apparatus;

161.3.b

demonstration that the apparatus will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction; and

161.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches.

161.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1), (2) or
(3) apply until UKOP has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

161.5

UKOP may within 10 working days of initial receipt of the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) raise any additional questions or comments or request
further information and/or clarification in relation to the plan.

161.6

Any approval of UKOP required under sub-paragraph (4):

161.6.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (8) or (10); and

161.6.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

161.7

UKOP is deemed to have approved the plan as submitted under sub-paragraph (1)
if UKOP has not intimated its approval or disapproval of the plan, and the
grounds of that disapproval, within 30 working days after the plan or the
responses to any additional questions, comments, further information or
clarification raised or requested under sub-paragraph (5) has been received by
UKOP.

161.8

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and/or (3) apply,
UKOP may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

161.9

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and UKOP and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (8) or (10) by UKOP for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and UKOP will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of
those works.

161.10

Where UKOP reasonably requires any protective works to be carried out by
itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to UKOP’s satisfaction, acting reasonably, prior to the commencement of any
specified works for which protective works are required and UKOP give notice
of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of submission of
a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

161.11

If UKOP in accordance with sub-paragraphs (8) or (10) and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs (1) to (4) and (8) to (10) apply as if the removal of the apparatus
had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 159(2).

161.12

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

161.13

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to UKOP notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of
those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (8), (9) and (10) insofar as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and comply with sub-paragraph
(14) at all times.

161.14

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order the
undertaker must ensure that all works comply with:

161.14.a

Linewatch’s Booklet for Special Requirements for safe working in close
proximity to high pressure pipelines (rev23.03; and

161.14.b

Linesearch Before U Dig (LinesearchbeforeUdig Safety Practices -
LinesearchbeforeUdig (lsbud.co.uk)); and

161.14.c

The United Kingdom Onshore Pipeline Operators’ Association Good Practice
Guides (Good Practice Guides | UKOPA); and

161.14.d

The Pipeline Safety Regulations 1996; and

161.14.e

The Pipe-lines Act 1962;

(all as updated or replaced from time to time).

161.15

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker must implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that UKOP retains the right to carry
out any further reasonably necessary protective works for the safeguarding of
its apparatus and can recover any such reasonable costs in line with paragraph
160 (Expenses and costs).

###### Expenses and costs

162

162.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between UKOP and the undertaker and
subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to UKOP within 25 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim from UKOP
all charges, costs and expenses (including legal expenses) reasonably and
properly incurred by UKOP in, pursuant to, or in connection with these
protective provisions, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new or
alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of
any authorised works including without limitation—

162.1.a

any costs and expenses (including but not limited to reasonable legal
expenses) reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by UKOP in
connection with the acquisition, variation or grant of any rights or the
exercise of any statutory powers in respect of such apparatus;

162.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

162.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

162.1.d

the approval of plans;

162.1.e

the carrying out of reasonably required protective works, plus a capitalised
sum to cover the reasonable cost of maintaining and renewing permanent
protective works;

162.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary for the execution of any such works referred to in this Part of this
Schedule; or

162.1.g

any costs and expenses (including but not limited to legal expenses)
reasonably incurred in assisting the undertaker to procure and/or secure any
consent and entering into of any deeds and/or variations by other third
parties required in connection with this Part of this Schedule, save that for
the avoidance of any doubt—

162.1.g.i

the undertaker be directly responsible for the payment of all third party
costs and expenses where the undertaker is a party to any such deeds or
variations; and

162.1.g.ii

where the undertaker is not a party to such deeds or variations, or where a
consent is procured or secured by UKOP, UKOP and the undertaker shall, acting
reasonably and without unreasonable delay, agree the amount of third party
costs and expenses that can be paid by UKOP to the third party and recovered
from the undertaker under this paragraph 162(1).

162.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

162.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

162.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

162.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not
determined by arbitration in accordance with paragraph 166 (Arbitration) to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under this Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved
if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions,
or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to UKOP by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

162.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)

162.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

162.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

162.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to UKOP in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on UKOP any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

162.6

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of the authorised works (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of those works) on property of UKOP, or there is any interruption in any
service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by UKOP, the undertaker must:

162.6.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by UKOP in making good such damage
or restoring the supply; and

162.6.b

make reasonable compensation for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or
costs incurred by UKOP,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

162.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of UKOP, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

162.8

UKOP must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand
and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the
undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the undertaker has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

###### Miscellaneous

163

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between UKOP and the undertaker, nothing
in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating
the relations between the undertaker and UKOP in respect of any apparatus in
land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

164

164.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or UKOP requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph 159(2) or UKOP makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph 160, the undertaker must use
reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of UKOP’s undertaking and UKOP must use reasonable endeavours to co-
operate with the undertaker for that purpose including using reasonable
endeavours (at the undertaker’s cost) to assist the undertaker to procure
and/or secure any consent and entering into of any deeds and/or variations by
other third parties required in connection with this Part of this Schedule.

164.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever UKOP’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by the
undertaker or the taking of action by the undertaker, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

165

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 158(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable UKOP to maintain or use the apparatus
no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

166

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and UKOP under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and UKOP, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article
47 (arbitration).

###### Notices

167

Notwithstanding article 45 (service of notices), any plans submitted to UKOP
by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be sent to the then Company
Secretary of UKOP at its then current registered addressor such other address
as UKOP may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to
the undertaker in writing.

###### Deviation of authorised development

168

Notwithstanding article 5 of the Order (Power to maintain the authorised
development) the undertaker is not permitted to install or deviate vertically
the authorised works to a limit less than 2.5 metres below the surface of the
ground and no closer than 600mm provided that where directional drilling
methods are to be used this minimum distance shall be increased to a 1.5 metre
clearance from the apparatus.

##### For the protection of PEEL NRE Limited

169

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Peel and, in the case of
paragraph 183 of this Schedule any other person on whom rights or obligations
are conferred by that paragraph.

170

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative access road(s) ” means the existing access road at Plots
1-01a and 1-01 as identified on the Land Plans and the access road proposed to
be constructed by Peel to connect Plot 1-01a to Plot 1-04 as identified on the
Land Plans D2.2 Sheet 1 pursuant to planning application Ref: 23/01239/FUL for
construction of gas fired electricity generators, enclosures with ancillary
equipment, metering station, transformer compound and access from Grinsome
Road;           “ existing access road ” means the existing access road over
Plot 1-01 as identified on the Land Plans;           “ construction ” includes
execution, placing, alteration and reconstruction and “construct” and
“constructed” have corresponding meanings;           “ CEMP ” means
Construction Environmental Management Plan;           “ CTMP ” means
Construction Traffic Management Plan;           “ LEMP ” means Landscaping
Environmental Management Plan;           “ DEMP ” means Decommissioning
Environmental Management Plan;           “ Network Rail Standard ” means
Network Rail Standard reference ‘NR/L2/CIV/044 ‘Planning, Design and
Construction of Undertrack Crossings’;           “ Peel ” means Peel NRE
Limited (company number 04480419), whose registered office is at Venus
Building, 1 Old Park Lane, Traffordcity, Manchester, M41 7HA and any
associated company of Peel NRE Limited which holds property;           “ plans
” includes sections, designs, design data, software, drawings, specifications,
soil reports, calculations, descriptions (including descriptions of methods of
construction), staging proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing
and duration of any proposed occupation of relevant property;           “
relevant property ” means:         any land, works, apparatus and equipment
belonging to Peel; and           any easement or other property interest held
or used by Peel or a tenant or licensee of Peel for the purposes of such land,
works, apparatus or equipment;                 “ specified work ” means so
much of any of the authorised development as is situated upon, across, under,
over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way adversely affect, relevant
property and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes the maintenance of such
works under the powers conferred by article 5 (power to maintain the
authorised development) in respect of such works.           “working days”
Monday to Friday inclusive but excluding days which are public holidays.

171

171.1

Where Peel is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph, such
consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed but may be given subject
to reasonable conditions. If by the end of the period of 30 working days
beginning with the date on which consent is requested Peel has not intimated
their refusal together with the grounds of any such refusal, Peel will be
deemed to have given its consent.

171.2

In the event that Peel constructs and makes available for use by the
undertaker the alternative access road the undertaker must not—

171.2.a

commence that part of Work No. 3 to which the existing access road relates;

171.2.b

use the existing access road; or

171.2.c

otherwise exercise the powers conferred by the provisions listed in sub-
paragraph (1) over the existing access road,

provided that Peel has granted the undertaker a right to pass and repass over
the alternative access road with or without vehicles.

172

172.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Peel proper and sufficient plans of that work for the reasonable
approval of Peel and the specified work must not be commenced except in
accordance with such plans as have been approved in writing by Peel or settled
by arbitration under article 49 (arbitration).

172.2

The approval of Peel under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Peel and Peel has not intimated
their disapproval together with the grounds of any such disapproval of those
plans, Peel will be deemed to have approved the plans as submitted.

173

173.1

Any specified work must, when commenced, be constructed—

173.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph 172;

173.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of Peel;

173.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to relevant
property; and

173.2

If any damage to relevant property or any such interference or obstruction is
caused by the carrying out of the construction of a specified work, the
undertaker must, notwithstanding any such approval, make good such damage and
must pay to Peel all reasonable and proper expenses to which Peel may be put
and compensation for any loss which it may sustain by reason of any such
damage, interference or obstruction provided that the undertaker shall only be
liable up to a maximum of £20,000,000.

173.3

Nothing in this Part imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of Peel or
its servants, contractors or agents or any liability on Peel with respect of
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of the
undertaker or its servants, contractors or agents.

174

174.1

The undertaker must pay to Peel all reasonable and proper costs, charges,
damages and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule
which may be reasonably incurred by Peel —

174.1.a

by reason of the construction, maintenance or operation of a specified work or
the failure of such a work; or

174.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work;

174.1.c

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to
relevant property;

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Peel from and against
all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a specified work
or any such failure, act or omission provided that the undertaker shall only
be liable up to a maximum limit of £20,000,000.

174.2

Peel must –

174.2.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such sums referred to in
sub-paragraph (1) as soon as reasonably possible after Peel become aware of
the same;

174.2.b

not make any settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand without the
prior consent of the undertaker;

174.2.c

take all reasonable steps to mitigate any liabilities; and

174.2.d

keep the undertaker informed and have regard to the undertaker’s
representations in relation to any such sums referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

175

175.1

The undertaker must consult with Peel prior to submitting any CTMP relating to
or in the vicinity of relevant property (including any CTMP affecting land
adjacent to relevant property) to the relevant planning authority for approval
in accordance with Requirement 6. The undertaker will provide a draft CTMP to
Peel no later than 25 working days prior to submission and confirm to Peel the
intended date of submission at the same time. Peel may make representations on
the draft CTMP to the undertaker no later than 10 working days prior to the
notified intended date of submission. The undertaker will only be required to
have due regard to any representations timeously made by Peel in accordance
with the timescales stipulated in this paragraph in finalising the CTMP for
submission and will seek to incorporate any reasonable requests made by Peel
where practicable.

175.2

The undertaker must consult with Peel prior to submitting any LEMP relating to
or in the vicinity of relevant property (including any LEMP affecting land
adjacent to relevant property) to the relevant planning authority for approval
in accordance with Requirement 11. The undertaker will provide a draft LEMP to
Peel no later than 25 working days prior to submission and confirm to Peel the
intended date of submission at the same time. Peel may make representations on
the draft LEMP to the undertaker no later than 10 working days prior to the
notified intended date of submission. The undertaker will have due regard to
any representations made by Peel in finalising the LEMP for submission and
will seek to incorporate any reasonable requests made by Peel where
practicable.

175.3

The undertaker must consult with Peel prior to submitting any CEMP relating to
or in the vicinity of relevant property (including any CEMP affecting land
adjacent to relevant property) to the relevant planning authority for approval
in accordance with Requirement 5. The undertaker will provide a draft CEMP to
Peel no later than 25 working days prior to submission and confirm to Peel the
intended date of submission at the same time. Peel may make representations on
the draft CEMP to the undertaker no later than 10 working days prior to the
notified intended date of submission. The undertaker will have due regard to
any representations made by Peel in finalising the CEMP for submission and
will seek to incorporate any reasonable requests made by Peel where
practicable.

175.4

The undertaker must consult with Peel prior to submitting any DEMP relating to
or in the vicinity of relevant property (including any DEMP affecting land
adjacent to relevant property) to the relevant planning authority for approval
in accordance with Requirement 19. The undertaker will provide a draft DEMP to
Peel no later than 25 working days prior to submission and confirm to Peel the
intended date of submission at the same time. Peel may make representations on
the draft DEMP to the undertaker no later than 10 working days prior to the
notified intended date of submission. The undertaker will have due regard to
any representations made by Peel in finalising the LEMP for submission and
will seek to incorporate any reasonable requests made by Peel where
practicable.

176

The undertaker will procure that in carrying out Work No. 4 at Plots 1-19,
1-20, 1-22, 1-23 and 1-24, as identified on the Land Plans, the Network Rail
Standard (as in force when the works are being carried out) shall be complied
with.

##### Protection of Encirc Limited

177

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Encirc.

178

In this Part—

      “ Ash Road bridge ” means the rail bridge crossing Ash Road;           “
COMAH Regulations ” means the Control of Major Accident Hazards Regulations
2015;           “ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and
reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings;
“ CTS Meetings ” means construction and traffic scheduling meetings to discuss
a schedule in relation to the co-ordination of traffic movements relating to
the specified works.           “ Encirc ” means Encirc Limited (company number
NI030990, whose registered office is at 11 Gortahurk Road, Tonymore Derrylin,
Enniskillen, Fermanagh, BT92 9DD and any associated company of Encirc Limited
which holds property;           “ Encirc’s business and operations ” means the
current operations and business carried out at the Encirc site and also
includes any future business and operations of the Encirc site once the future
development works have been implemented;           “ Fence ” means the
existing fence erected by Encirc along the boundary between plots 1-02 and
1-06 as identified on the Land Plans;           “ fit for purpose ” means a
road or access route which is of a standard equivalent to or better than the
standard of the road or access route included in the Order for the same
purpose;           “ future development works ” means;         construction of
automated warehouse including automated link to glass manufacturing and
filling facility, ancillary office space, driver welfare building, security
building, HGV parking and marshalling yard and other associated works (LPA
Ref: 22/03693/FUL) or any variation to or alternative to that form of
development effecting Land Plan Plots 1-02 and 1-06 (Ref Land Plan D2.2 Sheet
1); and           construction of hydrogen/electricity fired furnace on site
of existing dispatch yard and surrounding area effecting Land Plan Plot 1-02
(Ref: Land Plan D2.2 Sheet 1); and           construction of new rail sidings
and intermodal area between existing rail sidings and Network Rail main line
affecting Land Plan Plots 1-06, 1-06a 1-20, 1-21 and 1-22 (Ref: Land Plan D2.2
Sheet 1).                 “ Network Rail Standard ” means Network Rail
Standard reference ‘NR/L2/CIV/044 ‘Planning, Design and Construction of
Undertrack Crossings’;           “ Peel ” means Peel NRE Limited (company
number 004480419), whose registered office is at Venus Building, 1 Old Park
Lane, Traffordcity, Manchester, M41 7HA;           “ Existing Peel access road
” means the existing access road at Plots 1-01a and 1-01 as shown on the Land
Plans;           “ Proposed Peel access road(s) ” means the access road(s)
proposed to be constructed to connect Plot 1-01a to Plot 1-04 as identified on
the Land Plans D2.2 Sheet 1 pursuant to planning application Ref: 23/01239/FUL
for construction of gas fired electricity generators, enclosures with
ancillary equipment, metering station, transformer compound and access from
Grinsome Road;           “ Peel access road(s) ” means collectively the
Existing Peel access road and the Proposed Peel access road(s) and being fit
for purpose to allow the undertaker access to Plot 1-01 and between Plots
1-01a and 1-04;           “ relevant property ” means:         any land,
works, apparatus and equipment belonging to Encirc; and           any easement
or other property interest held or used by Encirc or a tenant or licensee of
Encirc for the purposes of such land, works, apparatus or equipment;
“ specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised development as is
situated upon, across, under, over, or may in any way adversely affect,
relevant property and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes the maintenance of
such works under the powers conferred by article 5 (power to maintain the
authorised development) in respect of such works.

###### Rights of access

179

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker-

179.a

Must not extinguish any rights of access to the relevant property granted to
Encirc otherwise than by agreement (both parties acting reasonably);

179.b

must provide a minimum of two working days notification prior to each entry to
the relevant property, such notice to be submitted in writing to
facilities.elton@encirc360.com , and a single notification may cover multiple
dates of entry;

179.c

provide any such details relating to the required access as is reasonably
required by Encirc;

179.d

comply with any reasonable conditions which Encirc may specify in relation to
the undertaker’s entry to the relevant property but only to the extent they do
not restrict or impede the ability of the undertaker to construct, operate or
maintain the authorised development;

179.e

must keep any existing roads used for access to the relevant property by
Encirc clean but only to the extent they have been dirtied as a result of the
specified works, clear from obstruction and in a usable condition as far as
reasonably practicable; and

179.f

must pay a fair and reasonable proportion (according to use) of the costs
incurred by Encirc in repairing and maintaining the entirety of Ash Road.

180

The parties shall hold the CTS Meetings fortnightly during detailed design and
construction of the specified works. The undertaker and Encirc shall use all
reasonable but commercially prudent endeavours to agree a schedule in relation
to the co-ordination of traffic movements relating to the specified works.
Where a schedule is agreed the parties will use the access routes only in
accordance with the agreed schedule.

###### Rights of access – Grinsome Road to the Protos Site

181

Subject to paragraph 183 (Rights of access – Ash Road (South)), provided that—

181.a

Peel has constructed the Peel access road(s) prior to the undertaker
completing that part of Work No. 3 which relates to Land Plans Plots 1-01a,
1-01, 1-02, 1-03 and 1-04;

181.b

Peel has granted the undertaker an easement for all rights of access required
by the undertaker over the Peel access road(s) and Land Plans Plot 1-04 to
ensure the undertaker has suitable access (to the undertaker’s satisfaction)
to Plots 1-05, 1-08, 1-09, 1-10, 1-11, 1-12, 1-13, 1-14, 1-15, 1-16, 1-17 and
1-18; and

181.c

the undertaker is satisfied that the Peel access road(s) are/ is fit for
purpose for the purposes of Work No.1, No.2, No. 3 and No.4:

the undertaker must not exercise the Powers conferred by this Order to (a)
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of Land Plans Plots 1-02
and 1-03, or (b) appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override
any easement, other interest or right held by Encirc over Land Plans Plots
1-01a and 1-01.

182

The undertaker shall use all reasonable but commercially prudent endeavours to
secure the grant by Peel of an easement for all rights of access required by
the undertaker over the Peel access road(s) and Plot Plans Plot 1-04 to ensure
the undertaker has suitable access (to the undertaker’s satisfaction) to Plots
1-05, 1-08, 1-09, 1-10, 1-11, 1-12, 1-13, 1-14, 1-15, 1-16, 1-17 and 1-18.

###### Rights of access – Ash Road (South)

183

Subject to Paragraph 184 (Rights of Access – Abnormal Loads), the undertaker
must use the entrance from Ash Road as the primary access route (over Plots
1-06, 1-06a, 1-06b and 1-06c as identified on the Land Plans) for construction
activities within Plots 1-20, 1-21 and 1-22. Provided that Encirc has granted
to the undertaker a suitable right of access across a fit for purpose access
route (to the undertaker’s satisfaction) to all of Plot 1-22 as identified on
the Land Plans as required by the undertaker—

183.a

The undertaker may in relation to Plot 1-21 exercise its powers under article
35 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) for the
purpose of temporary use as a construction working area and for access only;
and

183.b

The undertaker may not exercise the powers conferred under article 27
(compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants) in relation to
Land Plans Plot 1-21 without the prior consent in writing of Encirc.

###### Rights of Access – Abnormal Loads

184

In respect of abnormal loads, the undertaker may use the access route over
Grinsome Road, being either (a) over Plots 1-01a, 1-01, 1-02, 1-03, 1-06, and
1-06d as identified in the Lands Plans, (b) over a route to be determined from
Plots 1-01a, 1-01, part of 1-02, and from a point of egress (to be determined)
in Plot 1-02 to the north end of Plot 1-06 subject to Encirc granting to the
undertaker a suitable right of access across such route which must be a fit
for purpose route (to the undertaker’s satisfaction), or (c) over a route to
be determined from that part of the Peel access road(s) constructed pursuant
to planning permission reference 22/0363/FUL over Plots 1-03 and 1-02, and
from an egress in Plot 1-02 (to be determined) to the north end of Plot 1-06
subject to Encirc granting to the undertaker a suitable right of access across
such route which must be a fit for purpose route (to the undertaker’s
satisfaction). Use of any of the above routes is subject to the following
conditions—

184.a

The undertaker must provide a minimum of two working days notification prior
to use of the construction access, writing to be provided to
facilities.elton@encirc360.com ;

184.b

The undertaker must not take access through the Fence unless and until Encirc
have confirmed the written approval of HMRC and shall not take any steps which
would lead to Encirc being in breach of any obligations to HMRC;

184.c

The undertaker shall comply with all reasonable conditions imposed by Encirc
when taking access through the Fence and shall notify Encirc immediately if
there is a breach of any such condition;

184.d

The undertaker will use all reasonable endeavours to take access through the
Fence in such a manner as to cause as little damage as reasonably practicable
and shall inform Encirc immediately if any damage is caused to the Fence
including providing full details of the location and the damage caused.

184.e

The undertaker must pay to Encirc all reasonable and proper costs incurred by
Encirc in providing reasonably necessary security detail to escort abnormal
loads through the Fence;

184.f

The undertaker must make good any damage to the Fence as soon as reasonably
practicable and must pay to Encirc all documented reasonable and proper
expenses to which Encirc may be put and any compensation for any direct loss
which it may sustain by reason of such damage provided that at all times
Encirc will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps to mitigate its
loss.

###### Railway

185

185.1

The undertaker will procure that in carrying out Work No. 4 at Plots 1-19,
1-20, 1-22, 1-23 and 1-24, as identified on the Land Plans:

185.1.a

The Network Rail Standard (as in force when the works are being carried out)
shall be complied with;

185.1.b

All crossings under the existing railway lines (or any future development
works installed by Encirc at the relevant property prior to the commencement
of Work No. 4) will use trenchless crossing methods;

185.1.c

COMAH Regulations shall be complied with.

185.2

The undertaker must—

185.2.a

at all times before, during and after the construction of the specified works
allow an engineer or other person appointed by Encirc to watch and inspect the
execution of the specified work; and

185.2.b

supply the appointed person with all such information and all relevant and
available documents as they may reasonably require with regard to the method
of constructing a specified work.

185.3

Encirc shall provide details of their scheduled trains at the relevant
property to the undertaker on a monthly basis at CTS Meetings, and the
undertaker and Encirc shall use all reasonable but commercially prudent
endeavours to agree at the CTS Meetings provision to enable the authorised
development and the operation of the scheduled trains. Where Encirc advise the
undertaker of any changes to the schedule as soon as reasonably practicable,
the undertaker shall use all reasonable endeavours to minimise interference of
the carrying out of the specified works with the operation of Encirc’s re-
scheduled trains.

###### Construction Traffic Management Plan

186

The undertaker must consult with Encirc prior to submitting any CTMP to the
relevant planning authority for approval in accordance with Requirement 6. The
undertaker will provide a draft CTMP to Encirc no later than 20 working days
prior to submission, and confirm to Encirc the intended date of submission at
the same time. Encirc may make representations on the draft CTMP to the
undertaker no later than 14 days prior to the notified intended date of
submission. The undertaker will have due regard to any reasonable
representations timeously made by Encirc in finalising the CTMP for
submission.

###### Co-operation

187

Where Encirc propose to carry out any piling or construction works on the
Order land within Land Plan Plots 1-20 and 1-22, prior to carrying out such
works Encirc must agree with the undertaker the design and methodology which
will be used, and the operational use of such works.

188

The undertaker and Encirc must use all reasonable but commercially prudent
endeavours to reach agreement to enable the authorised development, Encirc’s
business and operations and any future development works to be carried out
(subject to Encirc obtaining all necessary consents, permissions and
authorisations).

189

The undertaker shall ensure that the pipeline is buried to a minimum depth of
4.3m under the existing railway ground level.

###### Specified work

190

The undertaker must give Encirc no less than 56 days written notice of the
intended commencement of any specified works and must include with this
notification a plan and description of the works to be commenced and a
programme for these works.

191

Any specified work must, when commenced, be constructed-

191.a

In such a manner as to cause as little damage and disruption as reasonably
practicable to the relevant property, including damage by way of pollution or
to the operation of Encirc’s business and operations;

191.b

In such a manner so as not to cause any breaches of Encirc’s obligations to
HMRC or under the COMAH Regulations; and

191.c

If any damage to the relevant property or Encirc’s business and operations or
any such interference or obstruction is caused by the carrying out of the
construction of a specified work, the undertaker must promptly inform Encirc
of such damage, must make good such damage and must pay to Encirc all
reasonable and proper expenses to which Encirc may be put and any compensation
for any loss which it may sustain by reason of such damage, interference or
obstruction, provided that at all times Encirc will be under an obligation to
take reasonable steps to mitigate its loss.

###### Expenses

192

192.1

Nothing in this Part imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of Encirc
or its servants, contractors or agents or any liability on Encirc with respect
of any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of the
undertaker or its servants, contractors or agents.

192.2

The undertaker must pay to Encirc all reasonable and proper costs, charges,
penalties, damages and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of
this Schedule which may be reasonably incurred by Encirc, provided that at all
times Encirc will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps to mitigate
its loss -

192.2.a

by reason of the construction, maintenance or operation of a specified work or
the failure of such a work; or

192.2.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work;

192.2.c

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to
relevant property

192.2.d

in respect of any damage to any access routes to the relevant property for
which Encirc have a maintenance obligation but always limited to the extent
such damage is attributable to the undertaker and the undertaker has not
reimbursed the costs of remediation of such damage under sub-paragraph (e);

192.2.e

in respect of any claim against Encirc by any third party in respect of the
access routes to the extent such claim relates to damage to the access routes
but always limited to the extent such damage is attributable to the undertaker
and the undertaker has not reimbursed the costs of remediation of such damage
under sub-paragraph (d);

192.2.f

by the provision of reasonably necessary security detail for any land, works,
apparatus and equipment belonging to Encirc to the extent attributable to the
specified works;

192.2.g

in respect of securing any required consents from HMRC in respect of the
undertaking authorised development by the undertaker.

192.3

The undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Encirc from and against all
claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a specified work or
any such failure, act or omission to a maximum cap on liability of £5 million
for each individual claim and an aggregate cap of £15 million provided that
there shall be no cap on liability in respect of any damage caused to the Ash
Road bridge which prevents access to the relevant property, provided that at
all times Encirc will be under an obligation to take reasonable steps to
mitigate its loss Encirc must—

192.3.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such sums referred to in
paragraph 192 (3) as soon as reasonably possible after Encirc become aware of
the same;

192.3.b

not make any offers to settle claims or demands without the prior consent of
the undertaker;

192.3.c

take all reasonable steps to mitigate any liabilities;

192.3.d

where any claims or demands are made by Network Rail, advise Network Rail that
any claims and demands should be directed to the undertaker only; and

192.3.e

keep the undertaker informed and have regard to the undertaker’s
representations in relation to any such sums referred to in this paragraph.

###### General

193

193.1

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Encirc under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Encirc, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article
49 (arbitration) of this Order.

193.2

The undertaker and Encirc must each act reasonably in connection with the
implementation of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Notices

194

Any plans or notices submitted to Encirc by the undertaker pursuant to this
Part must be sent to Encirc at  legal@encirc360.com  or such other address as
Encirc may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to
the undertaker in writing.

##### For the protection of Welsh Ministers as Strategic Highway Authority

###### Application

195

The provisions of this Part have effect for the protection of the Welsh
Ministers (“the WM”) as the Highway Authority for the strategic road network
in Wales, in addition to all other applicable statutory protections, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the WM.

###### Interpretation

196

In this Part—

      “ highway structure ” means any bridge, subway, culvert, pipe, tunnel,
manhole, chamber, wall, reinforced soil embankment, piece of street furniture,
building or other structure built in, over, under or adjacent to any part of
the highway which materially affects the support of that highway and/or the
safety of the travelling public;           “ strategic highway ” means any
part of the highway network including trunk roads or special roads which the
WM are responsible for;           “ NMWTRA ” means the North and Mid Wales
Trunk Road Agency, who act as the highway agents of the WM and exercise
functions relating to the management and operation of the relevant part of the
strategic highway on behalf of the WM pursuant to an agreement between the WM
and Gwynedd Council under section 6 of the Highways Act 1980. In practice
therefore, the procedural matters contained in this Part will be largely dealt
with by NMWTRA on behalf of the WM; and           “ works ” means—
that part of Work No. 39 which requires the trenchless installation of the
pipeline under the A494 (Aston Expressway) highway;           that part of
Work No. 44 which requires the open cut installation of the pipeline under the
verge of the A55 adjacent to Junction 33a, heading north under Chester Road;
or           any other work forming part of the authorised development within
or which affects or requires occupation of the strategic highway.

###### Approvals

197

The crossing of the A494 and its associated assets must only be carried out by
trenchless techniques. The installation of the pipeline under the verge of the
A55 adjacent to Junction 33a, heading north under Chester Road shall be
carried out as open cut installation.

198

198.1

Prior to the commencement of the works the undertaker must obtain the written
approval of the WM to such works.

198.2

When requesting approval under sub-paragraph (1), the undertaker must submit
to the WM:

198.2.a

Copy of location plan to a scale not less than 1/10,000 showing the location
and/or proposed route and siting of the works;

198.2.b

Details of the methodology of the works;

198.2.c

Details of the proposed timing of the works;

198.2.d

Details of any traffic management measures (including signage) proposed in
connection with the works; and

198.2.e

Where approval is sought for works to or within the carriageway of a strategic
highway, evidence of NHSS (National Highways Sector Scheme) certification and
Street Works Qualifications.

199

No crossing is to take place until a monitoring regime and the Geotechnical
Design Report (GDR as defined by the DMRB CD622 Managing Geotechnical Risk) is
agreed and certified by the WM.

200

Technical Approval from WM in accordance with DMRB CG300 is required in
advance of any part of the works which is likely to affect any existing
highway structure(s)

201

Approval under this Part may be sought in one or more applications.

202

Any approval of the WM under this Part may be given subject to such reasonable
requirements or conditions as the WM may determine.

203

The undertaker must contact any owners or operators of apparatus in, on, over,
under or near the strategic highway including other statutory undertakers to
ascertain whether their existing or proposed apparatus to within or under the
strategic highway is likely to be affected by the works. The undertaker must
comply with the reasonable requirements and conditions imposed by the owners
or operators relating to the protection of existing apparatus in, on, over,
under or near the strategic highway likely to be affected by the works.

204

The undertaker must pay a fee of £250 to the WM with any application for
approval under this Part.

###### Indemnity

205

The undertaker indemnifies the WM against any and all claims in respect of
injury, damage or loss arising out of—

205.a

the placing or presence in the strategic highway of apparatus as part of the
works; or

205.b

the excavation by any person of any works within the strategic highway,

always provided that the undertaker shall not be liable for any consequential
loss or any indirect loss under any circumstances.

206

The undertaker (or any person carrying out works on its behalf) must have and
maintain in force for the duration of any works to or within the strategic
highway network, public liability/third party insurance to the sum of £10
million covering its liability under paragraph 205. The undertaker must
provide evidence of such insurance to the WM if requested.

###### Traffic management

207

The undertaker must contact the NMWTRA, the WM RA Control Room, North Wales
Traffic Management Centre, Ffordd Sam Parri, Morfa, Conwy, LL32 8HH –
Telephone number 01492 564790 before erecting or removal of traffic management
measures on the strategic highway on each occasion that erection or removal is
required.

208

The undertaker must execute the works in strict accordance with the
requirements contained in Chapter 8 of the Traffic Signs Manual (2009) as
published by Her Majesty’s Stationery Office HMSO and any amendments thereof.

###### Inspections

209

The WM or any person authorised by them for this purpose is entitled to
inspect any works to, within or under the strategic highway while such works
are being carried out and following completion of such works.

210

Exercise of the right to inspect under paragraph 209 must be carried out
reasonably, in compliance with any requirements of any health and safety
requirements in place within the site of any works, and in accordance with the
instructions of the undertaker.

211

211.1

The undertaker must compensate the WM in respect of any loss, damage, charge,
cost or expense reasonably suffered or incurred by the WM as a result of the
execution, use or maintenance of the works.

211.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect of—

211.2.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of WM, its officers, employees, contractors or agents; and
/ or

211.2.b

any indirect or consequential loss of WM or any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption).

###### Reinstatement

212

Any reinstatement of the strategic highway required in connection with or as a
consequence of the works must be carried out in strict conformity with the
Code of Practice “Specification for the Reinstatement of Openings in
Highways”.

213

213.1

Where, in the reasonable opinion of the WM, any reinstatement carried out by
the undertaker is defective, three defect inspections will be carried out
comprising:

213.1.a

A joint inspection by the WM and the undertaker to determine the nature of the
failure and what remedial works need to be carried out;

213.1.b

Inspection by or on behalf of the WM of remedial works in progress; and

213.1.c

Inspection by or on behalf of the WM when remedial works have been completed.

213.2

The undertaker must pay an inspection fee of £47.50 for each inspection
carried out under this paragraph.

214

Any and all reasonable costs associated with the reinstatement work will be
met by the undertaker.

###### Notice of completion of Works

215

The undertaker must notify the WM of the completion of works approved by the
WM under this Part within 10 working days of such completion.

216

The undertaker must supply the WM with as built records of any apparatus sited
within or under the strategic highway within 20 working days of the completion
of works, including, in particular, the location and depth of any electrical
cables on a plan to a scale of 1/500 with a longitudinal and vertical accuracy
of + or - 100mm.

217

The undertaker must submit a Geotechnical Feedback Report (GFR as defined in
the DMRB CD622 Managing Geotechnical Risk) including all monitoring results
and as built drawings to the WM no later than six months from the date of
completion.

218

After the apparatus has been placed, the undertaker must not carry out any
further works or maintenance to the apparatus or works or any other works
involving excavation within the boundaries of the strategic highway without
the prior written approval of the WM, such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, and any such works must be carried out and completed to
the reasonable satisfaction of WM.

###### Arbitration

219

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the WM under this
Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
WM, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 49 (arbitration).

###### Notices

220

The plans submitted to the WM by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be
submitted to North & Mid Wales Trunk Road Agent, Unit 5 Llys Britannia, Parc
Menai, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 4BN and  streetworks@nmwtra.org.uk  or such other
address as the WM may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and
notify to the undertaker in writing.

###### Maintenance

221

The undertaker must maintain the apparatus in an appropriate state of repair
and condition. The undertaker must if required place and maintain within the
limits of the said highway suitable permanent signs of a type and in positions
to be approved by the WM for the purpose of indicating as nearly as possible
the exact position under the highway in which the said apparatus is laid.

##### For the protection of National Highways Limited

###### Application etc.,

222

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule apply for the protection of
National Highways and have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and National Highways.

###### Interpretation

223

223.1

Where the terms defined in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order are
inconsistent with subparagraph (2) the latter prevail.

223.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ acceptable security ” means either:         a parent company guarantee
from a parent company in favour of National Highways to cover the undertaker’s
liability to National Highways to a total liability cap of £50,000,000.00
(fifty million pounds) (in a form reasonably satisfactory to National Highways
and where required by National Highways, accompanied with a legal opinion
confirming the due capacity and authorisation of the parent company to enter
into and be bound by the terms of such guarantee); or           a bank bond or
letter of credit from an acceptable credit provider in favour of National
Highways to cover the undertaker’s liability to National Highways for an
amount of not less than £10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per asset per
event up to a total liability cap of £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) (in
a form reasonably satisfactory to National Highways);                 “ as
built information ” means one electronic copy of the following information—
as constructed drawings in both PDF and AutoCAD DWG formats showing the
location and depth of the pipeline as installed and any ancillary or
protective measures installed within the strategic road network;           as
constructed information for any utilities discovered or moved during the
specified works;           method statements for the specified works carried
out;           in so far as it is relevant to the specified works, the health
and safety file; and           such other information as is reasonably
required by National Highways to be used to update all relevant databases and
to ensure compliance with National Highway’s Asset Data Management Manual as
is in operation at the relevant time.                 “ condition survey ”
means a survey of the condition of National Highways structures and assets
within the Order limits that may be affected by the specified works;
“ contractor ” means any contractor or subcontractor appointed by the
undertaker to carry out the specified works;           “ detailed design
information ” means such of the following drawings specifications and
calculations as are relevant to the specified works—         site clearance
details;           boundary, environmental and mitigation fencing;
earthworks including supporting geotechnical assessments required by DMRB
CD622 Managing geotechnical risk and any required strengthened earthworks
appraisal form certification;           utilities diversions; and
other such information that may be reasonably required by National Highways to
be used to inform the detailed design of the specified works;
“ DMRB ” means the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges or any replacement or
modification of it;           “ the health and safety file ” means the file or
other permanent record containing the relevant health and safety information
for the specified works required by the Construction Design and Management
Regulations 2015 (or such updated or revised regulations as may come into
force from time to time);           “ nominated persons ” means the
undertaker’s representatives or the contractor’s representatives on site
during the carrying out of the specified works as notified to National
Highways from time to time;           “ parent company ” means a parent
company of the undertaker acceptable to National Highways acting reasonably;
“ programme of works ” means a document setting out the sequence and
timetabling of the specified works;           “ specified works ” means so
much of the authorised development, including any maintenance of that work, as
is on, in, under or over the strategic road network for which National
Highways is the highway authority, and specifically including Work No.12 in so
far as that crosses the M56 motorway, Work No.16 in so far as that crosses the
M53 motorway, and Work No. 22 in so far as that crosses the A41 highway.
“ strategic road network ” means any part of the road network including trunk
roads, special roads or streets for which National Highways is the highway
authority including drainage infrastructure, street furniture, verges and
vegetation and all other land, apparatus and rights located in, on, over or
under the highway;           “ utilities ” means any pipes wires cables or
equipment belonging to any person or body having power or consent to undertake
street works under the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; and

223.3

References to any standards, manuals, contracts, Regulations and Directives
including to specific standards forming part of the DMRB are, for the purposes
of this Part of this Schedule, to be construed as a reference to the same as
amended, substituted or replaced, and with such modifications as are required
in those circumstances.

###### General

224

The undertaker acknowledges that parts of the works authorised by this Order
affect or may affect parts of the strategic road network in respect of which
National Highways may have appointed or may appoint a highway operations and
maintenance contractor.

225

Notwithstanding the limits of deviation permitted pursuant to article 6
(limits of deviation) of this Order, no works in carrying out, maintaining or
diverting the authorised development may be carried out under the strategic
road carriageway at a distance less than 4 metres below the lowest point of
the carriageway surface.

226

References to any standards, manuals, contracts, regulations and directives
including to specific standards forming part of the DMRB are, for the purposes
of this Part of this Schedule, to be construed as a reference to the same as
amended, substituted or replaced, and with such modifications as are required
in those circumstances.

###### Prior approvals and security

227

227.1

Any specified works which involve tunnelling, boring or otherwise installing
the pipeline under the strategic road network without trenching from the
surface, must be designed by the undertaker in accordance with DMRB CD622
unless otherwise agreed in writing by National Highways.

227.2

The specified works must not commence until—

227.2.a

the programme of works has been approved by National Highways;

227.2.b

the detailed design of the specified works comprising of the following
details, insofar as considered relevant by National Highways, has been
submitted to and approved by National Highways—

227.2.b.i

the detailed design information;

227.2.b.ii

the identity and suitability of the contractor and nominated persons; and

227.2.b.iii

a process for stakeholder liaison, with key stakeholders to be identified and
agreed between National Highways and the undertaker;

227.2.c

a condition survey and regime of monitoring of any National Highways assets or
structures that National Highways reasonably considers will be affected by the
specified works, has been agreed in writing by National Highways; and

227.2.d

an acceptable security in favour of National Highways for the indemnity set
out in paragraph 232 below has been put in place, which security must be
maintained in place until the expiry of 12 months following the completion of
all of the specified works.

227.3

National Highways must, prior to the commencement of the specified works,
inform the undertaker of the identity of the person who will act as a point of
contact on behalf of National Highways for consideration of the information
required under sub-paragraph (2).

227.4

Any approval of National Highways required under this paragraph-

227.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld;

227.4.b

must be given in writing;

227.4.c

shall be deemed to have been given if neither given nor refused within 2
months of the receipt of the information for approval or, where further
particulars are requested by National Highways (acting reasonably) within 2
months of receipt of the information to which the request for further
particulars relates; and

227.4.d

may be subject to any reasonable conditions as National Highways considers
necessary.

227.5

Any change to the identity of the contractor and/or designer of the specified
works will be notified to National Highways immediately and details of their
suitability to deliver the specified works will be provided on request.

227.6

Any change to the detailed design of the specified works must be approved by
National Highways in accordance with paragraph 227(2) of this Part.

###### Construction of the specified works

228

228.1

The undertaker must give National Highways 28 days’ notice in writing of the
date on which the specified works will start.

228.2

The specified works must be carried out by the undertaker to the reasonable
satisfaction of National Highways in accordance with—

228.2.a

the relevant detailed design information and programme of works approved
pursuant to paragraph 227(2) above or as subsequently varied by agreement
between the undertaker and National Highways;

228.2.b

in so far as it may be applicable, the DMRB, save to the extent that
exceptions from those standards apply which have been approved by National
Highways; and

228.2.c

all aspects of the Construction (Design and Management) Regulations 2015 or
any statutory amendment or variation of the same.

228.3

The undertaker must permit and must require the contractor to permit at all
reasonable times persons authorised by National Highways (whose identity must
have been previously notified to the undertaker by National Highways) to gain
access to the specified works for the purposes of inspection and supervision
of the specified works.

228.4

If any part of the specified works is constructed-

228.4.a

other than in accordance with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule;
or

228.4.b

in a way that causes damage to the highway, highway structure or asset or any
other land of National Highways,

National Highways may by notice in writing require the undertaker, at the
undertaker’s own expense, to comply promptly with the requirements of this
Part of this Schedule or remedy any damage notified to the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule, to the satisfaction of National Highways, acting
reasonably.

228.5

If during the carrying out of the authorised development the undertaker or its
appointed contractors or agents causes damage to the strategic road network
then National Highways may by notice in writing require the undertaker, at its
own expense, to remedy the damage.

228.6

If within 28 days on which a notice under sub-paragraph (4) or sub-paragraph
(5) is served on the undertaker (or in the event of there being, in the
opinion of National Highways, a danger to road users, within such lesser
period as National Highways may stipulate), the undertaker has failed to take
the steps required by that notice, National Highways may carry out the steps
required of the undertaker and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred
by National Highways in so doing.

228.7

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule prevents National Highways from carrying
out any work or taking any such action as it reasonably believes to be
necessary as a result of or in connection with the carrying out or maintenance
of the authorised development without prior notice to the undertaker in the
event of an emergency or to prevent the occurrence of danger to the public and
National Highways may recover any expenditure it reasonably incurs in so
doing.

228.8

In constructing the specified works, the undertaker must at its own expense
divert or protect all utilities.

228.9

The undertaker must notify National Highways if it fails to complete the
specified works in accordance with the agreed programme of works pursuant to
paragraph 227(2)(b) of this Part, or suspends the carrying out of any
specified work beyond 14 days, and National Highways reserves the right to
withdraw any road space booking granted to the undertaker to ensure compliance
with its network occupancy requirements.

###### Payments

229

229.1

The undertaker must pay to National Highways a sum equal to the whole of any
reasonable costs and expenses which National Highways incurs (including costs
and expenses for using internal or external staff and costs relating to any
work which becomes abortive) in relation to the specified works and in
relation to any approvals sought under this Order, or otherwise incurred under
this Part, including—

229.1.a

the checking and approval of the information required under paragraph 227(2);

229.1.b

the supervision of the specified works;

229.1.c

any costs reasonably incurred under paragraph 228(7) of this Part, and

229.1.d

any value added tax which is payable by National Highways in respect of such
costs and expenses and for which it cannot obtain reinstatement from HM
Revenue and Customs,

together comprising “the NH costs”.

229.2

National Highways must provide the undertaker with a schedule showing its
reasonable estimate of the NH costs prior to the commencement of the specified
works and the undertaker must pay to National Highways the reasonable estimate
of the NH costs prior to commencing the specified works and in any event prior
to National Highways incurring any cost.

229.3

If at any time after the payment referred to in sub-paragraph (2) has become
payable, National Highways reasonably believes that the NH costs will exceed
the reasonably estimated NH costs it may give notice to the undertaker of the
amount that it reasonably believes the NH costs will exceed the estimate of
the NH costs (the excess) and the undertaker must pay to National Highways
within 28 days of the date of the notice a sum equal to the excess.

229.4

National Highways must give the undertaker a final account of the NH costs
referred to in sub-paragraph (1) above within 91 days of the date of
completion of the specified works as set out in the programme of works.

229.5

Within 28 days of the issue of the final account:

229.5.a

if the final account shows a further sum as due to National Highways the
undertaker must pay to National Highways the sum shown due to it; or

229.5.b

if the account shows that the payment or payments previously made by the
undertaker have exceeded the costs incurred by National Highways, National
Highways must refund the difference to the undertaker.

229.6

If any payment due under sub-paragraph (2) above, is not made on or before the
date on which it falls due the party from whom it was due must at the same
time as making the payment pay to the other party interest at 3% above the
Bank of England base lending rate from time to time being in force for the
period starting on the date upon which the payment fell due and ending with
the date of payment of the sum on which interest is payable together with that
interest.

###### Condition survey and as built details

230

230.1

The undertaker must, as soon as reasonably practicable after completing the
specified work, arrange for any highways structures and assets that were the
subject of the condition survey under paragraph 227(2)(c) to be re-surveyed
and must submit the re-survey to National Highways for its approval. The re-
survey will include a renewed geotechnical assessment required by DMRB CD622
if the specified works include any works beneath the strategic road network.

230.2

If the re-surveys carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph 230(1) indicates that
any damage has been caused to a structure or asset, the undertaker must submit
a scheme for remedial works in writing to National Highways. National Highways
must remedy any damage identified in the re-surveys and National Highways may
recover any expenditure it reasonably incurs in so doing from the undertaker.

230.3

The undertaker must make available to National Highways upon request copies of
any survey or inspection reports produced pursuant to any inspection or survey
of any specified work following its completion that the undertaker may from
time to time carry out.

230.4

Within 30 days of completion of the specified works, the as built details must
be provided by the undertaker to National Highways.

###### Insurance

231

Prior to the commencement of the specified works the undertaker must effect
and maintain in place until the completion of all of the specified works,
public liability insurance with an insurer in the minimum sum of
£10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) in respect of any one claim against any
legal liability for damage loss or injury to any property or any person as a
direct result of the execution of specified works or use of the strategic road
network by the undertaker.

###### Indemnity

232

The undertaker fully indemnifies National Highways from and against all
reasonable costs, claims, expenses, damages, losses and liabilities suffered
by National Highways directly arising from the construction, maintenance or
use of the specified works or exercise of or failure to exercise any power
under this Order within 30 days of demand save for any loss arising out of or
in consequence of any negligent act or default of National Highways and always
excluding any indirect or consequential loss suffered by National Highways.

###### Maintenance of the specified works

233

233.1

The undertaker must, prior to the commencement of any works of external
maintenance to the specified works, give National Highways 28 days’ notice in
writing of the date on which those works will start unless otherwise agreed by
National Highways, acting reasonably. Works of inspection or maintenance
undertaken from within the pipeline will not be subject to this paragraph.

233.2

If, for the purposes of maintaining the specified works, the undertaker needs
to occupy any road space, the undertaker must comply with National Highways’
road space booking requirements and no maintenance of the specified works for
which a road space booking is required shall commence without a road space
booking having first been secured.

233.3

The undertaker must comply with any reasonable requirements that National
Highways may notify to the undertaker, such requirements to be notified to the
undertaker not less than 14 days’ in advance of the planned commencement date
of the maintenance works.

###### Land

234

234.1

The undertaker must not, in reliance on or in exercise of any power under this
Order, interfere with, remove, damage or prevent or impair the functioning of,
and must on reasonable request (or in case of emergency, on demand) allow
access by National Highways to, the highway drainage assets located in plots
2-14, 4-20, 5-01, 5-02, 5-03, 5-04, 5-10, 5-12, 5-14, 5-15, 5-20, 5-22, 5-23,
6-02, 6-03, 6-04, 6-05, 6-06,

234.2

The undertaker must not, in reliance on or in exercise of any power under this
Order, interfere with, remove or prevent access by National Highways in
pursuance of any right held over plots 2-03, 2-14 and 5-05.

234.3

The undertake must not, in reliance on or in exercise of any power under this
Order, acquire, extinguish or remove any right National Highways holds for the
purposes of its undertaking in any of the plots listed in sub-paragraphs (1)
and (2) and plot 9-04.

###### Expert Determination

235

235.1

Article 47 (arbitration) of the Order does not apply to this Part of this
Schedule.

235.2

Any difference under this Part of this Schedule may be referred to and settled
by a single independent and suitable person who holds appropriate professional
qualifications and is a member of a professional body relevant to the matter
in dispute acting as an expert, such person to be agreed by the differing
parties or, in the absence of agreement, identified by the President of the
Institution of Civil Engineers.

235.3

On notification by either party of a dispute, the parties must jointly
instruct an expert within 14 days of notification of the dispute.

235.4

All parties involved in settling any difference must use all reasonable but
commercially prudent endeavours to do so within 21 days from the date that an
expert is appointed.

235.5

The expert must—

235.5.a

invite the parties to make submission to the expert in writing and copied to
the other party to be received by the expert within 7 days of the expert’s
appointment;

235.5.b

permit a party to comment on the submissions made by the other party within 7
days of receipt of the submission;

235.5.c

issue a decision within 7 days of receipt of the submissions under sub-
paragraph (b); and

235.5.d

give reasons for the decision.

235.6

Any determination by the expert is final and binding, except in the case of
manifest error in which case the difference that has been subject to expert
determination may be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 47
(arbitration).

235.7

The fees of the expert are payable by the parties in such proportions as the
expert may determine or, in the absence of such determination, equally.

##### For the protection of local highway authorities

236

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the relevant local highway
authority.

237

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ Consents ” means approvals, consents, licences, permissions, or
registrations;           “RSA” or “ Road Safety Audit ” means a review of the
proposed design or any works and any road safety impacts carried out in
accordance with the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges or such other standard
as the undertaker and the relevant local highway authority may agree;
“ highway ” means a highway vested in or maintainable by the relevant local
highway authority as highway authority under the 1980 Act and this definition
shall include any bridge or structure carrying a highway;           “ relevant
local highway authority ” means in relation to highways within Cheshire West
and Chester, Cheshire West and Chester Council, and in relation to highways in
Flintshire, Flintshire County Council           “ specified work ” means the
works under the Order to create new, permanent junctions to the public highway
and the installation of the pipeline in or under the highway where that
requires breaking open of the surface of the highway.

###### Highway condition and highway assets surveys

238

238.1

The undertaker will notify the of relevant local highway authority -

238.1.a

of the anticipated date of commencement of any Works to be undertaken under
this Order; and

238.1.b

of the anticipated construction programme and date of completion of the
authorised development;

not less than 3 months prior to that anticipated date of commencement of any
Works to be undertaken under this Order.

238.2

The undertaker and relevant local highway authority may agree that the
relevant local highway authority will procure the highway condition surveys
required under this Part of this Schedule at the cost of the undertaker.

238.3

The undertaker will agree a proposed scope with the relevant local highway
authority setting out the number (having regard to the construction
programme), content and format of the highway condition surveys no later than
4 weeks after notification under sub- paragraph (1). If the undertaker fails
to provide a highway condition survey or does not provide the relevant local
highway authority with sufficient time to undertake a highway condition survey
prior to any Works being undertaken pursuant to the Order then in default the
last highway condition survey undertaken by the relevant local highway
authority will amount to the baseline condition of the relevant highway and/or
highway asset.

238.4

A final highway condition survey must be procured by the undertaker within 28
days of the relevant local highway authority being notified by the undertaker
that the construction of the authorised development is complete.

238.5

Copies of any highway condition survey carried out in accordance with this
paragraph must be provided to the relevant local highway authority by the
undertaker within 10 working days of the completion of the relevant survey.

###### HGV route remediation

239

239.1

The undertaker must maintain and provide to the relevant local highway
authority at 3 month intervals from the date of any Works being undertaken
under this Order until the authorised development is complete, records of the
number of HGVs using the highway identified in paragraph 238(2) and/ or any
amendments thereto to access the authorised development and details of which
route such HGVs used.

239.2

The relevant local highway authority will, having regard to the highway
condition surveys, identify any need for remediation of the highway on the
highway identified in paragraph 238(3) and/or any amendments made thereto.

239.3

Where a need for remediation works or measures is identified under sub-
paragraph (1), the relevant local highway authority must prepare a schedule of
the works or measures required and of the cost of the delivery of those works
or measures identified. For the avoidance of doubt, the reasonable cost of
reviewing the highway condition surveys and preparing the schedule of works
will be met by the undertaker.

239.4

Upon receipt of the schedule of works identified in paragraph (2) and/or any
amendments made thereto, the undertaker will apply for a licence from the
relevant local highway authority to undertake the remediation works to the
highway and must undertake these works within 3 months of that licence being
granted. The cost of the licence and relevant approvals will be paid by the
undertaker to the relevant local highway authority.

###### Specified work

240

240.1

The undertaker will allow and facilitate an appropriately qualified officer of
the relevant local highway authority to participate in the design process for
any Work authorised by this Order which involves a specified work and/or any
other Work to the local highway network required pursuant to this Order, and
will have reasonable regard to any views of that officer in finalising the
detailed design of that Work, provided always that any such view shared by the
officer will not be an instruction, requirement or authorisation under this
Order.

240.2

Any officer of the relevant local highway authority duly appointed for the
purpose may at all reasonable times, on giving to the undertaker such notice
as may in the circumstances be reasonable, enter upon and inspect any part of
the authorised development which—

240.2.a

is in, on, over or under any highway; or

240.2.b

which may affect any highway;

during the carrying out of the Work, and the undertaker will give to such
officer all reasonable facilities for such inspection (subject to any
reasonable adjustments necessary for the safety of such officer) and, if the
officer is of the opinion that the construction of the Work poses danger to
any highway or to any property of the relevant local highway authority or
danger to persons or vehicles or other property in relation to which the
relevant local highway authority might be liable on, in, over or under any
highway, the undertaker will adopt such measures and precautions as may be
reasonably practicable for the purpose of preventing any damage or injury to
the highway or persons or vehicles or other property aforesaid.

240.3

Any officer of the relevant local highway authority exercising the right to
inspect works under sub-paragraph (1) must comply with all reasonable health
and safety requirements and instructions of the undertaker in doing so.

240.4

The undertaker must, if reasonably required by the relevant local highway
authority, provide and maintain during such time as the undertaker may occupy
any part of a highway for the purpose of the construction of any part of the
authorised development, temporary ramps for vehicular or pedestrian traffic
and any other traffic measures required to protect the safety of road users in
accordance with chapter 8 of the Traffic Signs Manual and the Safety at Street
Works and Road Works A Code of Practice as may be necessary.

241

241.1

Where, under this Order, any street works require to be undertaken to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority, this paragraph will
apply.

241.2

The relevant local highway authority will, as soon as reasonably practicable
following the receipt of notice from the undertaker that it considers any
street works to which this paragraph applies to be complete, carry out an
inspection of such street works.

241.3

The relevant local highway authority will confirm when any street works have
been completed to their reasonable satisfaction in writing and will set out in
such confirmation the date on which the works were last inspected to establish
such reasonable satisfaction. For the period of 24 months from the date of
last inspection as stated in the confirmation of reasonable satisfaction, the
undertaker will be liable to pay to the relevant local highway authority the
reasonable costs of repairing or rectifying any defect in the highway which,
in the opinion of the relevant local highway authority (acting reasonably) was
caused by or is attributable to the carrying out of street works by the
undertaker.

241.4

The reasonable costs set out in paragraph (3) may include the costs of the
time of the relevant local highway authority’s officers and employees incurred
in the remediation or rectification of a defect as well as the cost of the
remediation or repair, whether carried out by the local highway authority or
on their instruction. The costs payable under paragraph (3) must be paid by
the undertaker in full within 30 days of receipt of an invoice for such costs
provided that such invoice includes a breakdown of the charges incurred and is
accompanied by copies of any invoices received by the relevant local highway
authority for works undertaken to remedy or repair the defect. Disputes.

241.5

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the relevant local highway
authority under this Part of this Schedule (other than in difference as to the
meaning or construction of this Part of this Schedule) will be resolved by
arbitration under article 47 (arbitration).

##### For the protection of drainage authorities

242

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule apply for the protection of the
drainage authority unless otherwise agreed between the undertaker and the
drainage authority.

243

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering, laying,
replacing, relaying, connecting, building, installing, removal and excavation,
and “construct” and “constructed” are to be construed accordingly;           “
the drainage authority ” means—         the drainage board concerned within
the meaning of section 23(a) (prohibition on obstructions etc. in
watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act 1991; or           in the case of any
area for which there is no such drainage board, the lead local flood authority
within the meaning of section 6 (other definitions) of the Flood and Water
Management Act 2010(b);                 “ drainage work ” means any ordinary
watercourse and includes any bank, wall, embankment or other structure, or any
appliance, constructed or used for land drainage or flood defence in
connection with an ordinary watercourse which is the responsibility of the
drainage authority;           “ ordinary watercourse ” has the same meaning as
given in section 72 (interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991(a);
“ plans ” includes sections, drawings, specifications and method statements;
and           “ specified work ” means works carried out in relation to or
which may alter or obstruct any ordinary watercourse including by—
erecting any mill dam, weir or other similar obstruction to the flow of the
watercourse, or raising or otherwise altering any such obstruction;
construction or installation of a bridge or other crossing structure;
installing a culvert in the watercourse; or           altering a watercourse
or a culvert or other form of drainage infrastructure in a manner that would
be likely to affect the flow of the watercourse.

244

244.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the drainage authority plans of the work, and such further particulars as
the drainage authority may within 14 days of the first submission of the plans
reasonably require.

244.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority, or determined
under paragraph 250.

244.3

The drainage authority must approve or refuse approval of the plans for a
specified work within 56 days of receipt of the later of—

244.3.a

the plans under sub-paragraph  (1) ; or

244.3.b

such further particulars as the drainage authority may reasonably require
under sub-paragraph  (1) .

244.4

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

244.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

244.4.b

is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within
the period specified in sub-paragraph  (3) ; and

244.4.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements or conditions as the
drainage authority may make for the protection of any ordinary watercourse or
for the prevention of flooding.

245

The requirements or conditions which the drainage authority may make under
paragraph 244 include conditions requiring the undertaker at its own expense
to construct such protective works (including any new works as well as
alterations to existing works) as are reasonably necessary—

245.a

to safeguard any ordinary watercourse against damage, or

245.b

to secure that the efficiency of any ordinary watercourse for flood defence or
land drainage purposes is not impaired and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased, by reason of the specified work in relation to the
ordinary watercourse.

246

246.1

Any specified work in relation to an ordinary watercourse, and all protective
works required by the drainage authority under paragraph 244, must be
constructed to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and an
officer of the drainage authority is entitled, on giving such notice as may be
reasonable in the circumstances, to inspect and watch the construction of such
works.

246.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority not less than 14 days’
notice of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and the
undertaker must give to the drainage authority notice of completion of a
specified work not later than 7 days after the date on which it is brought
into use.

246.3

If any part of a specified work in, over or under any ordinary watercourse is
constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this Part of
this Schedule or as agreed between the undertaker and the drainage authority,
the drainage authority may by notice require the undertaker at its own expense
to comply with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule or (if the
undertaker so elects and the drainage authority in writing consents, such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld) at the undertaker’s expense to
remove, alter or pull down the work and, where removal is agreed, to restore
the site to its former condition to such extent and within such limits as the
drainage authority reasonably requires.

246.4

Subject to sub-paragraph  (5) , if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph  (3)  is served
upon the undertaker, it has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably expeditious
progress toward their implementation, the drainage authority may execute the
works specified in the notice, subject to the undertaker having the right to
supervise the planning and execution of such works to the extent they may
affect the pipeline to the extent that those works are compliant with and do
not compromise the undertaker’s ability to comply with the Pipeline Safety
Regulations 1996, and any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so doing is
to be recoverable from the undertaker. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
drainage authority may not under any circumstances undertake any works to the
pipeline itself which could or would conflict with the duties and obligations
of the undertaker under the Pipeline Safety Regulations 1996, any direction
issued by the Health and Safety Executive under those Regulations or any other
health and safety legislation relating to the operation and maintenance of the
pipeline.

246.5

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph  (3)  is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not, except in an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph  (4)  until the dispute has been finally
determined.

247

247.1

From the commencement of the construction of any specified work until the date
falling 12 months from the date of completion of the specified work (“the
maintenance period”), the undertaker must at its expense, maintain in at least
as good repair and condition immediately prior to commencement of the
construction of the specified work and keep free from obstruction any part of
a drainage work which is situated within land held or occupied by the
undertaker in respect of the specified work, whether the drainage work is
constructed under this Order or is already in existence.

247.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain during
the maintenance period is not maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the
drainage authority, it may by notice require the undertaker to maintain the
drainage work at the undertaker’s expense, or any part of it, to such extent
as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

247.3

If, within a reasonable period being not less than 28 days beginning with the
date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under sub-
paragraph  (2)  on the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking
steps to comply with the reasonable requirements of the notice and has not
subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the drainage authority may do what is necessary for such
compliance, subject to the undertaker having the right to supervise the
planning and execution of such works to the extent they may affect the
pipeline to the extent that those works are compliant with and do not
compromise the undertaker’s ability to comply with the Pipeline Safety
Regulations 1996, and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in
doing so from the undertaker Notwithstanding the foregoing, the drainage
authority may not under any circumstances undertake any works to the pipeline
itself which could or would conflict with the duties and obligations of the
undertaker under the Pipeline Safety Regulations 1996, any direction issued by
the Health and Safety Executive under those Regulations or any other health
and safety legislation relating to the operation and maintenance of the
pipeline.

247.4

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph  (2) , the drainage authority must not,
except in a case of emergency, exercise the powers of sub-paragraph  (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined.

247.5

This paragraph does not apply to—

247.5.a

drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or which the
drainage authority or another person is liable to maintain and is not
prevented by this Order from so doing; and

247.5.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule provided that any obstruction is removed as soon as
reasonably practicable.

248

Subject to paragraph 247(5)(b), if by reason of the construction of any
specified work or of the failure of any such work the efficiency of any
ordinary watercourse for flood defence or land drainage purposes is impaired,
or that watercourse is otherwise damaged, so as to require remedial action,
such impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker at its own
expense to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and if the
undertaker fails to do so, the drainage authority may make good the same and
recover the expense reasonably incurred by it in so doing from the undertaker.

249

249.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation to the drainage authority for
costs, charges and expenses which it may reasonably incur or which it may
sustain—

249.1.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule; and

249.1.b

in the inspection and supervision of the construction of a specified work in
respect of an ordinary watercourse or any protective works required by the
drainage authority under this Part of this Schedule.

250

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule is to be determined by arbitration in accordance
with article 47 (arbitration) of the Order.

##### For the protection of Exolum Pipeline System Ltd

###### Application

251

For the protection of Exolum the following provisions, unless otherwise agreed
in writing at any time between the undertaker and Exolum, have effect.

###### Interpretation

252

In this Part of this Schedule, the following terms have the following
meanings—

      “ Additional Rights ” means rights for the construction and for access
to and for the use, protection, inspection, maintenance, repair and renewal of
retained Apparatus including any restrictions on the landowner and occupiers
for the protection of the retained Apparatus and to allow Exolum to perform
its functions;           “ Alternative Apparatus ” means alternative apparatus
adequate to enable Exolum to fulfil its functions as a pipeline operator in a
manner not less efficient than previously;           “ Alternative Rights ”
means rights for the construction and for access to and for the use,
protection, inspection, maintenance, repair and renewal of Alternative
Apparatus including any restrictions on the landowner and occupiers for the
protection of the Alternative Apparatus and to allow Exolum to perform its
functions;           “ Apparatus ” means the pipeline and storage system and
any ancillary apparatus owned and/or operated by Exolum and includes—
any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will
give access to apparatus;           any ancillary works, all protective
wrappings, valves, sleeves and slabs, cathodic protection units, together with
ancillary cables and markers;           such legal interest, and benefit of
property rights and covenants as are vested in in respect of these items;
and, where the context allows, includes Alternative Apparatus;
“ Application ” means the application to the Secretary of State for the Order
made by the undertaker under the Planning Act 2008 on 3 October 2022;
“ Authorised Development ” has the same meaning as that given in article 2(1)
(interpretation) of the Order and for the purposes of this Part of this
Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the authorised development and
construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;           “ Commence ”
has the same meaning as that given in article 2(1) of the Order (and
commencing must be construed accordingly);           “ Deed of Consent ” means
a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant
agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to
secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus or to provide for access to Apparatus in a
manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule;           “
Exolum ” means Exolum Pipeline System Ltd (company number 09497223) and for
the purpose of enforcing the benefit of any provisions in this Schedule, any
group company of Exolum Pipeline System Ltd and in all cases any successor in
title;           “Expert” is a person appointed in accordance with paragraphs
306 to 314 to resolve a dispute under this Schedule;           “ Functions ”
includes powers, duties and commercial undertaking;           “in” in a
context referring to Apparatus in land includes a reference to Apparatus
under, over or upon land;           “ Order ” means the order granting
development consent, made by the Secretary of State and brought into force
following the Application under the Planning Act 2008l           “ parties ”
means the undertaker and Exolum and “ party ” is to be construed accordingly;
“ Plan ” includes all designs, drawings, sections, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary to allow Exolum to assess the relevant
works to be executed properly and sufficiently and in particular must
describe—         the exact position of the works;           the level at
which the works are proposed to be constructed or renewed;           the
manner of the works’ construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;           the position of the affected Apparatus
and/or Premises and any other apparatus belonging to another undertaker;
by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;           any intended maintenance regime;
details of the proposed method of working and timing of execution of works;
and           details of vehicle access routes for construction and
operational traffic;                 “ Premises ” means land that Exolum owns,
occupies or otherwise has rights to use including but not limited to storage
facilities, administrative buildings and jetties;           “ Protective Works
” means works for the inspection and protection of Apparatus;           “
Restricted Works ” means any works that are near to, or will or may affect any
Apparatus or Premises including—         all works within 15 metres measured
in any direction of any Apparatus including embankment works and those that
involve a physical connection or attachment to any Apparatus,           the
crossing of Apparatus by other utilities,           the use of explosives
within 400 metres of any Apparatus or Premises,           piling, undertaking
of a 3D seismic survey or the sinking of boreholes within 30 metres of any
Apparatus or Premises,           all works that impose a load directly upon
the Apparatus, wherever situated

whether carried out by the undertaker or any third party in connection with
the Authorised Development; and

      “ Working Day ” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or English
bank or public holiday.

###### Acquisition of Apparatus

253

253.1

Regardless of any other provision in the Order or anything shown on the land
plans or if the Order covers any Premises or interest in any land in which any
Apparatus is placed or over which access to any Apparatus is enjoyed—

253.1.a

The undertaker must not, otherwise than by agreement with Exolum, acquire any
Apparatus or Exolum’s rights in respect of Apparatus;

253.1.b

Where the undertaker acquires the freehold of any land in which Exolum holds
an interest, the undertaker must afford to or secure for Exolum such rights in
land in substitution for any right which would be extinguished by that
acquisition (the replacement rights). These replacement rights must be granted
upon substantially the same terms and conditions as the right to be
extinguished, unless otherwise agreed between the undertaker and Exolum, and
must be granted or put in place contemporaneously with the extinguishment of
the right which they replace;

253.1.c

the undertaker must not, otherwise than in accordance with this Schedule:

253.1.c.i

obstruct or render less convenient the access to any Apparatus or Premises;

253.1.c.ii

interfere with or affect Exolum’s ability to carry out its functions as an oil
pipeline operator;

253.1.c.iii

require that Apparatus is relocated or diverted; or

253.1.c.iv

remove or required to be removed any Apparatus;

253.1.d

any right of Exolum to maintain, repair, renew, adjust, alter or inspect
Apparatus may not be extinguished until any necessary Alternative Apparatus
has been constructed, it is in operation and the Alternative Rights have been
granted, all to the reasonable satisfaction of Exolum; and

253.1.e

any right of Exolum to access the Exolum Apparatus and/or Premises must not be
extinguished until necessary alternative access has been provided to Exolum’s
reasonable satisfaction.

254

Prior to the carrying out of any Restricted Works or any works authorised by
this Order that will affect the existing rights of Exolum, the parties must
use all reasonable endeavours to negotiate and enter into such Deeds of
Consent (crossing consent) and (if necessary) variations to the existing
rights upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between Exolum and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to Exolum than this Schedule, and it will be the responsibility of the
undertaker to procure and / or secure the consent and entering into of such
deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land
at that time who are affected by such works.

255

Where the undertaker acquires land which is subject to any existing rights
held by Exolum and the provisions of paragraph 265 do not apply, the
undertaker must—

255.a

Retain any notice of the existing rights held by Exolum on the title to the
relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired land;
and

255.b

provide up to date official entry copies to Exolum within 20 working days of
receipt of such up to date official entry copies.

256

Where the undertaker takes temporary possession of any land or carries out
survey works on land in respect of which Exolum has an easement, right, asset,
interest, Apparatus or Premises:

256.a

where reasonably necessary, and provided that all health and safety
requirements are complied with (including any requirements applicable to the
undertaker under the Construction, Design and Management Regulations 2015),
Exolum may exercise its rights to access such land—

256.a.i

in an emergency, without notice but in all such instances Exolum will notify
the undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable and until service of such
notice, entry will be at Exolum’s own risk; and

256.a.ii

in non-emergency circumstances, having first given prior written notice to the
undertaker in order to allow the parties to agree the timing of their
respective works during the period of temporary possession; and

256.b

the undertaker may not remove or in any way alter Exolum’s rights in such
land, unless in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

###### Removal of Apparatus and Rights for Alternative Apparatus

257

If, having used all reasonable endeavours to implement the Authorised
Development without the removal of any Apparatus:

257.a

the undertaker reasonably requires the removal of any Apparatus; or

257.b

Exolum reasonably requires the removal of any Apparatus;

then the relevant party must give written notice of that requirement to the
other.

258

The parties must use all reasonable endeavours to produce a plan of the work
proposed and a plan of the proposed position of the Alternative Apparatus to
be provided or constructed.

259

The undertaker must afford to Exolum the necessary facilities and rights for
the construction of Alternative Apparatus and subsequently the grant of
Alternative Rights in accordance with paragraphs 265 to 269.

260

Any Alternative Apparatus is to be constructed in land owned by the undertaker
or in land in respect of which Alternative Rights have been or are guaranteed
to be granted to Exolum. The Alternative Apparatus must be constructed in such
manner and in such position or situation as may be agreed between Exolum and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by expert determination in
accordance with paragraphs 306 to 314.

261

After the details for the works for Alternative Apparatus to be provided or
constructed have been agreed or settled by expert determination in accordance
with paragraphs 306 to 314, and after the grant to Exolum of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in paragraph 257, Exolum must proceed
as soon as reasonably practicable using all reasonable endeavours to construct
and bring into operation the Alternative Apparatus and subsequently to remove
(or if agreed between the parties to allow the undertaker to remove) any
redundant Apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the
provisions of this Schedule.

262

The following paragraphs 263 and 264 only apply if:

262.a

Exolum fails to comply with its obligations under paragraph 261 to remove any
redundant Apparatus; and

262.b

the undertaker has served notice on Exolum specifying the default; and

262.c

Exolum has failed to remedy the default within 28 days.

263

In the circumstances set out in paragraph 262, if the undertaker then gives
notice in writing to Exolum that it will remove the redundant Apparatus, that
work, instead of being executed by Exolum, must be executed by the undertaker
without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the
reasonable satisfaction of Exolum.

264

Nothing in paragraph 263 authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
Apparatus, or execute any filling around the Apparatus (where the Apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 3000 millimetres of the Apparatus unless that
Apparatus is redundant and disconnected from Exolum’s remaining system.

###### Facilities and Rights for Alternative Apparatus

265

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule, the undertaker
affords to Exolum facilities and rights for the construction of Alternative
Apparatus and the grant of Alternative Rights, in substitution for Apparatus
to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon such terms and
conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and Exolum in accordance
with this Schedule or in default of agreement settled by expert determination
in accordance with paragraphs 306 to 314.

266

Alternative Rights must be granted before any Alternative Apparatus is
operating as part of the pipeline and storage system which forms the
Apparatus.

267

The parties agree that the Alternative Rights be granted by way of a 999 year
lease, substantially in the form of Exolum’s precedent from time to time as
amended by written agreement between the parties acting reasonably.

268

Nothing in this Schedule or contained in the Alternative Rights shall require
Exolum to divert or remove any Alternative Apparatus.

269

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any Alternative Apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the Expert less
favourable on the whole to Exolum than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it
in respect of the Apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions to
which those facilities and rights are subject, the Expert will make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to Exolum as
appears to the Expert to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances
of the particular case.

###### Retained Apparatus and Alternative Apparatus: protection

270

Before commencing the execution of any Restricted Works, the undertaker must
submit to Exolum a Plan of the works to be executed and any other information
that Exolum may reasonably require to allow Exolum to assess the works.

271

No Restricted Works are to be commenced until the Plan to be submitted to
Exolum under paragraph 270 has been approved by Exolum in writing and are to
be carried out only in accordance with the details submitted under paragraph
270 and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may be notified to
the undertaker in writing in accordance with paragraph 272 by Exolum.

272

Any approval by Exolum of the Plan of works submitted under paragraph 270 must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and Exolum must communicate its
approval or refusal of the plans within 56 days of the date of submission of
the plan under paragraph 270 and any approval of the Plan of works may be
given subject to such reasonable requirements as Exolum may require to be made
for—

272.a

the continuing safety and operational viability of any Apparatus and/or
Premises; and

272.b

the requirement for Exolum to have reasonable access with or without vehicles
to inspect, repair, replace, maintain and ensure the continuing safety and
operation or viability of any Apparatus and/or Premises

providing such reasonable requirements are notified to the undertaker in
writing.

273

Exolum will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of Restricted Works
at any time.

274

Where reasonably required by either party, in view of the complexity of any
proposed works, timescales, phasing or costs, the parties must with due
diligence and good faith negotiate a works agreement for the carrying out of
Protective Works or the installation of Alternative Apparatus.

275

If in consequence of the works notified to Exolum by the undertaker under
paragraph 271, the circumstances in paragraph 257 apply, then the parties will
follow the procedure in paragraph 257 onwards.

276

Nothing in paragraphs 270 to 275 precludes the undertaker from submitting
prior to the commencement of works to protect retained Apparatus or to
construct Alternative Apparatus (unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and Exolum) a new Plan, instead of the Plan previously
submitted, in which case the parties will re-run the procedure from paragraph
275 onwards.

277

Where Exolum reasonably requires Protective Works, the parties must use all
reasonable endeavours to produce a plan of the work proposed and a plan of the
proposed position of any physical features to be provided or constructed.

278

The undertaker must afford to Exolum the necessary facilities and rights for
the construction of Protective Works and subsequently the grant of Additional
Rights in accordance with paragraphs 265 to 269.

279

Any Protective Works are to be constructed in land owned by the undertaker or
in land in respect of which Additional Rights have been or are guaranteed to
be granted to Exolum. The Protective Works must be constructed in such manner
and in such position or situation as may be agreed between Exolum and the
undertaker or in default of agreement settled by expert determination in
accordance with paragraphs 306 to 314.

280

After the details for the Protective Works to be provided or constructed have
been agreed or settled in accordance with paragraphs 306 to 314, and after the
grant to Exolum of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in
paragraph 259, Exolum must proceed as soon as reasonably practicable using
reasonable endeavours to construct and bring into operation the Protective
Works.

281

Where the undertaker needs to carry out emergency works—

281.a

it must give to Exolum notice before such works commence, or as soon as is
reasonably practicable after the works have commenced where it is not
reasonably practicable to provide notice prior to commencement;

281.b

the parties will work together to co-ordinate their respective works and agree
a plan of those works before such works commence, or as soon as is reasonably
practicable after the works have commenced where it is not reasonably
practicable to provide notice prior to commencement; and

281.c

it must comply with the conditions imposed under paragraph 272 insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

282

In this Part of this Schedule, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution
at the time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or
to prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or
which the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to
be existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or
property.

###### Cathodic protection testing

283

Where in the reasonable opinion of Exolum or the undertaker—

283.a

the Authorised Development might interfere with the cathodic protection
forming part of Apparatus; or

283.b

any Apparatus might interfere with the proposed or existing cathodic
protection forming part of the Authorised Development;

Exolum and the undertaker must co-operate in undertaking the tests which they
consider reasonably necessary for ascertaining the nature and extent of such
interference and measures for providing or preserving cathodic protection.

284

The Parties must carry out the works and enter into such agreements as are
reasonably necessary to implement the measures for providing or preserving
cathodic protection.

###### Expenses

285

285.1

Subject to the following provisions of these paragraphs 285 to 288, the
undertaker must pay to Exolum the reasonable and properly incurred costs and
expenses (including reasonable staffing costs if work is carried out in-house)
incurred by Exolum in, or in connection with—

285.1.a

undertaking its obligations under this Schedule including:

285.1.a.i

the installation, inspection, removal, alteration, testing or protection of
any Apparatus, Alternative Apparatus and/or Protective Works;

285.1.a.ii

the execution of any other works under this Schedule; and

285.1.a.iii

the review and assessment of Plans;

285.1.b

the watching of and inspecting the execution of the Authorised Development,
any Restricted Works and any works undertaken by third parties as a result of
Authorised Development (including the assessment of Plans); and

285.1.c

imposing reasonable requirements for the protection or alteration of Apparatus
affected by the Authorised Development or works as a consequence of the
Authorised Development in accordance with paragraph 272;

together with any administrative costs properly and reasonably incurred by
Exolum.

286

Provided that Exolum takes all reasonable steps to minimise the costs incurred
in the following circumstances, there will be no deduction from any sum
payable under paragraph 285 as a result of—

286.a

the placing of apparatus of a better type, greater capacity or of greater
dimensions, or at a greater depth than the existing Apparatus; or

286.b

the placing of apparatus in substitution of the existing Apparatus that may
defer the time for renewal of the existing Apparatus in the ordinary course;

287

The scrap value (if any) of any Apparatus removed under the provisions of this
Schedule is to be deducted from any sum payable under paragraph 285.

288

Upon the submission of proper and reasonable estimates of costs and expenses
to be incurred by Exolum, the undertaker must pay Exolum sufficiently in
advance but to enable Exolum to undertake its obligations under this Schedule
provided that in the event that the costs reasonably incurred by Exolum are
less than the amount paid by the undertaker pursuant to this paragraph 288
then Exolum must promptly repay any overpayment to the undertaker within 30
days of the payment of those costs.

###### Damage to property and other losses

289

Subject to paragraphs 290 to 293, the undertaker will—

289.a

indemnify Exolum for all reasonable loss, damage, liability, costs and
expenses reasonably suffered or incurred by Exolum directly arising out of—

289.a.i

the carrying out of works under this Schedule;

289.a.ii

the carrying out of the Authorised Development;

289.a.iii

the use or occupation of land over or in the vicinity of any Apparatus or in
the vicinity of any Premises in connection with the carrying out of the
Authorised Development;

289.a.iv

any injury or damage whatsoever to any property, real or personal, including
the property of Exolum; and

289.a.v

any matters arising out of or in connection with this Order;

289.b

indemnify Exolum against any claim made against, or loss suffered by, Exolum
as a result of any act or omission committed by the undertaker’s officers,
employees, contractors or agents whilst on or in the vicinity of any Apparatus
or Premises;

289.c

pay to Exolum on demand the cost reasonably incurred by Exolum in making good
any damage to the Apparatus (other than Apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal or abandonment) arising
out of the carrying out of works under this Schedule and arising out of the
carrying out of the Authorised Development; and

289.d

pay to Exolum the cost reasonably incurred by Exolum in stopping, suspending
and restoring the supply though its Apparatus in consequence of the carrying
out of works under this Schedule or the carrying out of the Authorised
Development;

and make reasonable compensation to Exolum for any other expenses, losses,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by Exolum by reason of any such damage or
interruption including all claims by third parties.

290

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Exolum on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a Plan approved by Exolum or in accordance
with any requirement of Exolum or under its supervision will not, subject to
paragraph 291, excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
paragraph 289.

291

The undertaker and Exolum must at all times take reasonable steps to prevent
and mitigate any loss, damage, liability, claim, cost or expense (whether
indemnified or not) which either suffers in connection with this Schedule.

292

The undertaker warrants that—

292.a

the information it or any of its employees, agents or contractors provide to
Exolum about the Plans or the Authorised Development and on which Exolum
relies in the design of and carrying out of any works is accurate; and

292.b

the undertaker or any of its employees, agents or contractors have exercised
all the reasonable skill, care and diligence to be expected of a qualified and
experienced member of their respective profession.

293

Exolum must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or demand to
which paragraph 289 applies.

###### Insurance

294

The undertaker must not commence the Authorised Development or any intrusive
environmental (including archaeological) surveys and investigation or
intrusive site or soil surveys on any land in respect of which Exolum has an
easement, right, operations, assets or other interests or carry out any
Restricted Works unless and until Exolum has confirmed to the undertaker in
writing that it is satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to all necessary
regulatory constraints) that the undertaker (or its contractor) has procured
acceptable professional indemnity insurance, where relevant, and public
liability insurance with minimum cover of £25 million per event, with respect
to the carrying out of the works.

295

The undertaker must maintain such insurance for the construction period of the
Restricted Works, being from the proposed date of commencement of the
Authorised Development to the completion of any Restricted Works or Protective
Works.

###### Co-operation and reasonableness

296

Where Apparatus is required to be protected, altered, diverted or removed
under this Schedule, the undertaker must use all reasonable endeavours to co-
ordinate the execution of any works under this Schedule—

296.a

in the interests of safety;

296.b

47.2 in the interest of the efficient and economic execution of both Exolum’s
works and the Authorised Development; and

296.c

47.3 taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation
of Apparatus and carrying out of Exolum’s functions.

297

Exolum must use all reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker
for the purposes outlined in paragraph 296.

298

The undertaker and Exolum must act reasonably in respect of any given term of
this Schedule and, in particular, (without prejudice to generality) where any
approval, consent or expression of satisfaction is required by this Schedule
it must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Emergency circumstances

299

The undertaker acknowledges that Exolum provides services to His Majesty’s
Government, using the Apparatus, which may affect any works to be carried
under this Schedule and the Authorised Development.

300

In the following circumstances, Exolum may on written notice to the undertaker
immediately suspend all works that necessitate the stopping or suspending of
the supply of product through any Apparatus under this Schedule and Exolum
will not be in breach of its obligations under this Schedule—

300.a

circumstances in which, in the determination of the Government, there subsists
a material threat to national security, or a threat or state of hostility or
war or other crisis or national emergency (whether or not involving hostility
or war); or

300.b

circumstances in which a request has been received, and a decision to act upon
such request has been taken, by the Government for assistance in relation to
the occurrence or anticipated occurrence of a major accident, crisis or
natural disaster; or

300.c

circumstances in which a request has been received from or on behalf of NATO,
the EU, the UN, the International Energy Agency (or any successor agency
thereof) or the government of any other state for support or assistance
pursuant to the United Kingdom’s international obligations and a decision to
act upon such request has been taken by the Government; or

300.d

any circumstances identified as such by the COBRA committee of the Government
(or any successor committee thereof); or

300.e

any situation in connection with which the Government requires fuel capacity,
including where the United Kingdom is engaged in any planned or unplanned
military operations within the United Kingdom or overseas.

301

The parties agree to act in good faith and in all reasonableness to agree any
revisions to any schedule, programme or costs estimate (which will include
costs of demobilising and remobilising any workforce, and any costs to protect
the Apparatus “mid-works”) to account for the suspension.

302

Exolum is not liable for any costs, expenses, losses or liabilities the
undertaker incurs as a result of the suspension of any activities under
paragraphs 299 to 301 or delays caused by it.

###### Escalation of differences

303

The undertaker and Exolum must use their reasonable endeavours to secure the
amicable resolution of any dispute or difference arising between them out of
or in connection with this Schedule in accordance with the following
provisions.

304

The undertaker and Exolum will each nominate a representative who will meet to
try to resolve the matter. If the matter is not resolved at that level within
ten working days of either the undertaker or Exolum requesting such a meeting
(or such longer period as may be agreed between the undertaker and Exolum) the
matter may at the request of either the undertaker or Exolum be referred for
discussion at a meeting to be attended by a senior executive from each party.

305

If the meeting between senior executives fails to result in a settlement
within 20 working days of the date of the request for such a meeting (or if it
is not possible to convene a meeting within this period) then either the
undertaker or Exolum may refer the matter to expert determination or
arbitration in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 303 to 314.

###### Dispute resolution

306

If any dispute or difference arising out of or in connection with this
Schedule is not resolved in accordance with paragraphs 303 to 305, either the
undertaker or Exolum may refer the matter to:

306.a

in the case of any dispute or difference pursuant to paragraphs 260, 265, 269
or 283, expert determination under paragraphs 306to 314; or

306.b

in the case of any dispute or difference not falling within paragraphs 306(a),
arbitration under article 49 (arbitration) of the Order.

307

The parties will agree on the appointment of an independent Expert and must
agree with the Expert the terms of their appointment.

308

If the parties are unable to agree on an Expert or the terms of their
appointment within five working days of either party serving details of a
suggested expert on the other, either party will then be entitled to request
the Institution of Civil Engineers or its successor to appoint an Expert and
to agree with the Expert the terms of their appointment.

309

The Expert is required to prepare a written decision including reasons and
give notice (including a copy) of the decision to the parties within a maximum
of three months of the matter being referred to them.

310

If the Expert dies or becomes unwilling or incapable of acting, or does not
deliver the decision within the time required by paragraph 309 then either
party may re-apply to the relevant professional body referred to above to
discharge the Expert and to appoint a replacement Expert with the required
expertise and paragraph 306 onwards will apply to the new Expert as if they
were the first Expert appointed.

311

The parties are entitled to make submissions to the Expert and will provide
the Expert with such assistance and documents as the Expert reasonably
requires for the purpose of reaching a decision.

312

The Expert will act as an expert and not as an arbitrator. The Expert may
award interest as part of their decision. The Expert’s written decision on the
matters referred to them will be final and binding on the parties in the
absence of manifest error or fraud.

313

The Expert may direct that any legal costs and expenses incurred by a party in
respect of the determination will be paid by another party to the
determination on the general principle that costs should follow the event,
except where it appears to the Expert that, in the circumstances, this is not
appropriate in relation to the whole or part of such costs. The Expert’s fees
and any costs properly incurred by them in arriving at his determination
(including any fees and costs of any advisers appointed by the Expert) will be
borne by the parties equally or in such other proportions as the Expert
directs.

314

The dispute resolution procedure set out in this Schedule will apply to
matters dealt with in this Schedule notwithstanding any dispute resolution
procedure provided for either in the Order or as part of any other consent in
respect of the Authorised Development.

###### Miscellaneous

315

Nothing in this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or prior
agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Exolum in
respect of any Apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker
on the date the Order is granted.

316

No failure or delay by a party to exercise any right or remedy provided under
this Schedule or by law will constitute a waiver of that or any other right or
remedy, nor will it prevent or restrict the further exercise of that or any
other right or remedy. No single or partial exercise of such right or remedy
will prevent or restrict the further exercise of that or any other right or
remedy.

##### For the protection of the Environment Agency

317

317.1

The following provisions apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

317.2

In this part of this Schedule –

      “ Agency ” means the Environment Agency;           “ drainage work ”
means any main river and includes any land which provides or is expected to
provide flood storage capacity for any main river and any bank, wall,
embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for land
drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring;           “ flood risk activity
permit ” means an environmental permit granted under regulation 13 of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 for the purposes
of a flood risk activity;           “main river” has the same meaning given in
section 113 of the Water Resources Act 1991;           “ specified work ”
means any development authorised by this Order and carried out in relation to
or which may affect any drainage work.

318

318.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (4) the undertaker must, for the duration of the
construction of the specified work, as far as reasonably practicable maintain
in good repair and condition and keep free from obstruction any part of any
drainage work which is situated on land held or occupied by the undertaker for
the purposes of or in connection with the specified work, whether or not the
drainage work is constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is
already in existence.

318.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, the Agency may by
notice in writing require the undertaker to repair and restore the work, or
any part of such work, or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to
remove the work and restore the site to its former condition, to such extent
and within such limits as the Agency reasonably requires.

318.3

If within a reasonable period, being not less than 28 days beginning with the
date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under sub-
paragraph (2) on the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking
steps to comply with the requirements of the notice and has not subsequently
made reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency
may undertake the works reasonably necessary for such compliance, subject to
the undertaker having the reasonable opportunity to supervise the planning and
execution of such works to the extent reasonably necessary to ensure they are
compliant with and do not compromise the undertaker’s ability to comply with
the Pipeline Safety Regulations 1996 and any expenditure reasonably and
properly incurred by the Agency in so doing is recoverable from the
undertaker. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agency may not under any
circumstances undertake any works to the pipeline itself which would or would
be likely to conflict with the duties and obligations of the undertaker under
the Pipeline Safety Regulations 1996, any direction issued by the Health and
Safety Executive under those regulations or any other health and safety
legislation relating the operation and maintenance of the pipeline.

318.4

This paragraph does not apply to-

318.4.a

drainage works which are vested in the Agency, or which the Agency or another
person is liable to maintain and is not proscribed by the powers of the Order
from doing so; and

318.4.b

any obstruction of a drainage work expressly authorised in the approval of a
flood risk activity permit and carried out in accordance with the provisions
of that flood risk activity permit provided that any obstruction is removed as
soon as reasonably practicable.

318.5

Where the authorised development involves the crossing of any watercourse by
open cut trench installation, the use of a dam as part of such installation
works shall not constitute an obstruction for the purpose of these provisions.

  Removal of hedgerows

Article 39

##### Removal of hedgerows

      (1) Area (2) Grid coordinates (3) Identifier (4) Grid coordinates (5)
Identifier   In the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester 346950 376184 1a
347003 375913 1b 346897 375898 2a 347019 375915 2b 346875 375645 3a 347001
375629 3b 346785 375868 4a 347022 375902 4b 346294 375265 6a 346575 375409 6b
346292 375019 8a 346448 375100 8b 346203 374951 9a 346332 374872 9b 345865
374566 11a 345928 374681 11b 345719 374573 13a 345752 374637 13b 345691 374534
14a 345700 374566 14b 345499 374566 16a 345508 374559 16b 345406 374424 17a
345527 374576 17b 345402 374427 18a 345406 374424 18b 345393 374649 19a 345473
374778 19b 345233 374763 20a 345325 374692 20b 345140 374609 21a 345241 374775
21b 345029 374340 23a 345037 374375 23b 345025 374399 24a 345121 374612 24b
338243 370613 25a 338253 370606 25b 345016 374362 26a 345021 374384 26b 344672
373470 30a 344798 373398 30b 344631 374707 31a 344681 374744 31b 344606 373756
32a 344727 373613 32b 344577 374124 34a 344612 374061 34b 344583 373750 35a
344649 373774 35b 344526 374826 38a 344550 374829 38b 344523 373977 39a 344618
374028 39b 344510 373273 40a 344552 373268 40b 344501 374115 41a 344557 374134
41b 344466 373286 43a 344492 373300 43b 344544 374793 44a 344505 374788 44b
343371 371565 45a 343383 371547 45b 343147 372270 47a 343217 372199 47b 342929
372091 51a 342957 372017 51b 342797 372709 52a 343066 372802 52b 342773 371940
53a 342957 372017 53b 342645 371389 54a 342686 371384 54b 342340 371321 57a
342551 371274 57b 342277 371214 58a 342303 371319 58b 342254 371171 59a 342291
371319 59b 342072 371246 61a 342184 371178 61b 341985 371184 62a 342057 371107
62b 341904 371138 63a 341970 371047 63b 341611 371039 65a 341700 371076 65b
341467 371130 66a 341529 371189 66b 341467 371130 67a 341515 371042 67b 341386
371217 69a 341555 371545 69b 341416 371081 71a 341473 371121 71b 340962 371264
76a 340981 371281 76b 340908 371357 79a 340954 371326 79b 340207 371124 84a
340234 371227 84b 339951 371169 85a 339989 371042 85b 339167 370831 87a 339224
370832 87b 338915 370692 89a 338980 370762 89b 338866 370911 90a 338877 370893
90b 338815 370876 91a 338866 370911 91b 338566 371004 98a 338651 371061 98b
338535 371059 99a 338623 371117 99b 338535 371059 100a 338566 371004 100b
338499 370956 101a 338512 370946 101b 338457 370927 102a 338566 371004 102b
338408 370977 103a 338499 371036 103b 338313 370737 105a 338336 370696 105b
338304 370502 107a 338345 370543 107b 338287 370485 108a 338293 370500 108b
338250 370603 109a 338253 370606 109b 338236 370569 110a 338341 370669 110b
338236 370569 111a 338304 370502 111b 338227 370562 112a 338293 370500 112b
338171 370148 114a 338255 370272 114b 338078 370262 116a 338189 370125 116b
338078 370068 117a 338162 370042 117b 338028 370227 118a 338078 370262 118b
338075 370052 119a 338069 370046 119b 337741 369579 121a 337741 369578 121b
337173 369465 127a 337399 369467 127b 337154 369441 128a 337172 369464 128b
337096 369519 129a 337108 369538 129b 337011 369425 130a 337072 369498 130b
336896 369517 131a 336929 369499 131b 336894 369447 132a 336922 369425 132b
336889 369434 133a 336929 369499 133b 336867 369418 134a 336889 369434 134b
336780 369506 135a 336889 369434 135b 336702 369326 136a 336733 369339 136b
336698 369446 137a 336778 369375 137b 336691 369439 139a 336766 369370 139b
336676 369301 140a 336697 369277 140b 336584 369273 142a 336702 369326 142b
336559 369147 143a 336637 369169 143b 336559 369148 144a 336588 369082 144b
336461 369054 145a 336562 369137 145b 336383 368928 146a 336415 368981 146b In
the Counties of Cheshire West and Chester and Flintshire 336303 368960 147a
336401 368893 147b In the County of Flintshire 336239 367713 148a 336360
367878 148b 336142 368871 149a 336266 368825 149b 336108 368859 150a 336234
368808 150b 336008 368717 151a 336140 368845 151b 335996 367600 152a 336373
367882 152b 335969 367585 153a 336229 367705 153b 335630 368512 154a 335687
368466 154b 335619 368523 155a 335629 368513 155b 335600 368570 156a 335677
368500 156b 335569 367286 158a 335621 367253 158b 335400 368466 159a 335507
368596 159b 335389 368464 160a 335499 368602 160b 335352 368028 161a 335423
367975 161b 335345 368019 162a 335419 367962 162b 335198 366277 163a 335205
366276 163b 335166 367550 164a 335412 367959 164b 335087 367588 165a 335156
367543 165b 335042 367607 166a 335152 367537 166b 334943 367786 167a 335039
367614 167b 334921 367141 168a 335150 367525 168b 334904 366740 169a 334997
366883 169b 334830 366923 170a 334859 366966 170b 334704 367059 172a 335344
366659 172b 334542 366813 173a 334668 366738 173b 334395 366600 174a 334541
366815 174b 334275 366437 175a 334316 366404 175b 334044 366404 176a 334146
366303 176b 333818 366173 177a 333966 366411 177b 333659 366309 178a 333729
366232 178b 333482 366284 179a 333529 366345 179b 333425 366475 180a 333431
366472 180b 333424 366475 181a 333427 366481 181b 333388 366375 182a 333441
366456 182b 333337 366435 183a 333388 366512 183b 333299 366475 184a 333356
366549 184b 333272 366507 185a 333329 366581 185b 333250 366666 186a 333253
366664 186b 333199 366592 187a 333250 366666 187b 333192 366603 188a 333249
366687 188b 333172 366557 189a 333189 366552 189b 333032 366784 190a 333090
366870 190b 332962 366852 191a 333032 366934 191b 332744 366971 192a 332785
367066 192b 332926 366929 193a 332962 366852 193b 332923 366932 194a 332981
366992 194b 332910 366919 195a 332941 366889 195b 332844 367101 197a 332944
366968 197b 332741 366946 198a 332748 366966 198b 332676 367377 199a 332790
367259 199b 332716 367301 200a 332718 367299 200b 332700 366983 201a 332759
366962 201b 332669 367371 202a 332787 367255 202b 332664 366908 203a 332700
366983 203b 332664 367347 204a 332717 367297 204b 332643 367203 205a 332717
367297 205b 332587 367258 208a 332643 367203 208b 332587 367258 209a 332664
367347 209b 332550 366995 210a 332613 367078 210b 332526 367028 211a 332590
367105 211b 332359 367497 215a 332432 367575 215b 332280 367529 216a 332341
367495 216b 331727 367302 224a 331857 367429 224b 331530 367209 228a 331541
367347 228b 331228 367137 230a 331311 367098 230b 331070 367005 231a 331205
366894 231b 330957 366836 232a 331000 366727 232b 330915 366760 235a 330942
366849 235b 330908 366762 236a 330931 366866 236b 330651 366885 237a 330714
366843 237b 330528 366750 238a 330706 366827 238b 330438 366842 241a 330491
366910 241b 330414 366978 242a 330438 366842 242b 330211 367080 243a 330235
367100 243b 330114 366912 244a 330180 366966 244b 330104 366922 245a 330138
366883 245b 330104 366922 246a 330117 366983 246b 330090 366996 248a 330133
366986 248b 329986 366784 249a 330104 366922 249b 329961 367023 250a 330015
367007 250b 329947 367027 251a 329948 367023 251b 329909 367035 253a 329943
367028 253b 329901 367043 254a 329954 367166 254b 329898 367037 255a 329898
367037 255b 329882 366859 256a 329916 366837 256b 329865 367251 257a 329954
367165 257b 329860 366914 258a 329903 366910 258b 329743 367134 261a 329898
367037 261b 329612 367250 263a 329684 367215 263b 329480 367398 264a 329569
367333 264b 329593 367247 265a 329570 367332 265b 329305 367310 268a 329378
367221 268b 329221 367018 269a 329224 367042 269b 329062 367150 270a 329221
367018 270b 328807 366603 275a 328888 366632 275b 328800 366502 276a 328875
366550 276b 328798 366607 277a 328867 366640 277b 328731 366404 278a 328753
366430 278b 328726 366466 280a 328753 366430 280b 328682 366490 281a 328711
366483 281b 328653 366393 282a 328770 366410 282b 328559 366439 283a 328681
366490 283b 328513 366475 286a 328620 366501 286b 328450 366614 287a 328480
366638 287b 328415 366670 288a 328429 366680 288b 328279 366680 291a 328280
366715 291b 327958 366851 294a 328010 366935 294b 327714 367029 297a 327781
367086 297b 327393 367320 301a 327512 367331 301b 327252 367349 303a 327298
367324 303b 327091 367365 304a 327094 367433 304b 326967 367405 305a 326973
367455 305b 326966 367405 306a 327019 367382 306b 326604 367661 310a 326692
367648 310b 326302 367738 315a 326330 367636 315b 326218 367619 316a 326239
367615 316b 326164 367732 317a 326269 367745 317b 326068 367737 318a 326127
367936 318b 325952 367770 319a 326068 367737 319b 325945 367768 320a 325948
367772 320b 325873 367846 321a 325943 367774 321b 325873 367846 322a 325948
368011 322b 325709 367995 323a 325722 368095 323b 325696 368121 324a 325745
368096 324b 325659 368161 325a 325742 368162 325b 325650 368091 326a 325722
368095 326b 325646 368419 327a 325721 368438 327b 325645 368137 328a 325748
368084 328b 325644 368147 329a 325696 368121 329b 325631 368243 330a 325730
368276 330b 325617 368405 331a 325646 368419 331b 325589 368654 335a 325601
368662 335b 325307 369097 339a 325390 369118 339b 325259 369284 343a 325436
369399 343b 325253 369808 344a 325328 369868 344b 325249 369750 345a 325317
369622 345b 325251 369729 346a 325314 369614 346b 325181 370133 351a 325202
370107 351b 325115 370883 353a 325236 370821 353b 325021 370722 355a 325149
370671 355b 325054 370798 357a 325069 370825 357b 321735 372374 360a 321853
372471 360b 321667 372508 361a 321730 372369 361b 321671 372509 362a 321733
372549 362b 321713 372597 363a 321730 372550 363b 317359 373302 365a 317408
373427 365b 317408 373427 366a 317441 373485 366b 317359 373295 367a 317441
373307 367b 314858 374549 368a 314982 374524 368b 314858 374549 369a 314832
374486 369b 314787 374642 370a 314712 374555 370b 344911 373387 371a 344910
373357 371b

##### Removal of important hedgerows

      (1) Area (3) Grid coordinates (4) Identifier (5) Grid coordinates (4)
Identifier   Easting Northing Easting Northing In the Borough of Cheshire West
and Chester 346624 375332 5a 346664 375246 5b 346292 375019 7a 346294 375264
7b 346049 374719 10a 346148 374646 10b 345039 374387 12a 345144 374595 12b
345627 374612 15a 345739 374541 15b 345137 374603 22a 345398 374429 22b 344751
374565 27a 344807 374608 27b 344707 374590 28a 344795 374656 28b 344694 373445
29a 344795 373389 29b 344599 374805 33a 344624 374809 33b 344539 373869 36a
344606 373763 36b 344534 373865 37a 344628 373892 37b 344502 373275 42a 344506
373277 42b 343217 372213 46a 343434 372429 46b 343076 372437 48a 343228 372556
48b 343063 372424 49a 343222 372203 49b 342945 371968 50a 343205 372217 50b
342551 371276 55a 342553 371198 55b 342371 371314 56a 342371 371220 56b 342191
371330 60a 342291 371319 60b 341633 371144 64a 341738 371041 64b 341398 371114
68a 341502 371217 68b 341369 371155 70a 341423 371258 70b 341357 371041 72a
341371 371028 72b 341344 371060 73a 341357 371041 73b 341137 371423 74a 341340
371196 74b 341127 371421 75a 341351 371185 75b 340954 371326 77a 340974 371368
77b 340954 371326 78a 340990 371269 78b 340778 371314 80a 340836 371229 80b
340643 371289 81a 340700 371201 81b 340364 371214 82a 340399 371152 82b 340231
371186 83a 340357 371251 83b 339914 371154 86a 339964 371033 86b 339077 370769
88a 339211 370710 88b 338811 370884 92a 338890 370951 92b 338646 371110 95a
338684 371119 95b 338646 371110 96a 338811 370884 96b 338623 371117 97a 338647
371068 97b 338404 370985 104a 338478 370910 104b 338312 370737 106a 338334
370755 106b 338199 369957 113a 338216 369986 113b 338081 370260 115a 338233
370393 115b 338033 369865 120a 338120 369812 120b 337739 369580 122a 337843
369618 122b 337586 369599 123a 337724 369622 123b 337412 369476 124a 337642
369511 124b 337389 369566 125a 337415 369465 125b 337383 369549 126a 337399
369466 126b 336696 369311 138a 336725 369327 138b 336639 369370 141a 336702
369326 141b In the County of Flintshire 335599 368576 157a 335897 368938 157b
334798 367194 171a 334925 367117 171b 332904 366926 196a 332964 366986 196b
332637 367004 206a 332691 366972 206b 332600 366945 207a 332647 367039 207b
332512 367500 212a 332574 367438 212b 332510 367498 213a 332512 367500 213b
332413 367593 214a 332512 367500 214b 332273 367501 217a 332288 367601 217b
332259 367501 218a 332272 367584 218b 332104 367495 219a 332272 367584 219b
332104 367495 220a 332142 367420 220b 331969 367402 221a 332062 367499 221b
331877 367426 222a 331943 367496 222b 331862 367425 223a 331921 367377 223b
331661 367352 225a 331713 367302 225b 331652 367350 226a 331688 367310 226b
331545 367204 227a 331556 367347 227b 331469 367345 229a 331537 367288 229b
330944 366855 233a 330955 366844 233b 330492 366911 239a 330508 366932 239b
330444 366959 240a 330492 366911 240b 330102 366928 247a 330103 366925 247b
329922 366843 252a 329986 366785 252b 329761 367123 259a 329864 367248 259b
329761 367123 260a 329901 367043 260b 329612 367366 262a 329612 367256 262b
328932 366825 271a 328966 366838 271b 328872 366730 272a 328893 366779 272b
328870 366885 273a 328932 366825 273b 328829 366781 274a 328886 366782 274b
328716 366479 279a 328751 366522 279b 328557 366467 284a 328653 366493 284b
328527 366460 285a 328557 366467 285b 328353 366747 289a 328460 366562 289b
328280 366717 290a 328306 366790 290b 328108 366779 292a 328280 366717 292b
328069 366797 293a 328119 366884 293b 327663 367004 295a 327813 367131 295b
327714 367027 296a 327781 366960 296b 327698 367024 298a 327720 367006 298b
327695 367023 299a 327698 367024 299b 327544 367308 300a 327550 367172 300b
327351 367408 302a 327405 367174 302b 326832 367465 307a 326966 367405 307b
326702 367616 308a 326841 367604 308b 326680 367522 309a 326694 367649 309b
326594 367585 311a 326604 367661 311b 326484 367713 312a 326550 367712 312b
326471 367636 313a 326484 367713 313b 326407 367723 314a 326426 367724 314b
325609 368499 332a 325704 368265 332b 325589 368493 333a 325684 368517 333b
325589 368653 334a 325655 368525 334b 325583 368501 336a 325678 368529 336b
325515 368599 337a 325601 368507 337b 325515 368599 338a 325589 368653 338b
325285 371191 340a 325386 371067 340b 325278 369143 341a 325343 368935 341b
325269 371159 342a 325280 371190 342b 325234 370069 347a 325282 370100 347b
325228 370076 348a 325257 370093 348b 325203 370107 349a 325280 370151 349b
325181 369471 350a 325299 369558 350b 325118 370888 352a 325269 371159 352b
325054 370382 354a 325136 370425 354b 324975 370644 356a 325094 370577 356b
324927 370546 358a 325114 370883 358b 324927 370546 359a 325136 370425 359b
317403 373102 364a 317359 373295 364b

  Arbitration rules

Article 47

##### Primary objective

1

1.1

The primary objective of these Arbitration Rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within 4 months from the date the Arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article 47 (arbitration) of the Order.

1.2

The Parties will first use their reasonable endeavours to settle a dispute
amicably through negotiations undertaken in good faith by the senior
management of the Parties. Any dispute which is not resolved amicably by the
senior management of the Parties within twenty business days of the dispute
arising, or such longer period as agreed in writing by the Parties, will be
subject to arbitration in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.

1.3

The Arbitration will be deemed to have commenced when a party (“the Claimant”)
serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (“the Respondent”).

##### Time periods

2

2.1

All time periods in these Arbitration Rules will be measured in business days
and this will exclude weekends, bank and public holidays.

2.2

Time periods will be calculated from the day after the Arbitrator is appointed
which will be either—

2.2.a

the date the Arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the Arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable

3

3.1

The timetable for the arbitration will be that set out in sub-paragraphs (2)
to (4) below unless amended in accordance with paragraph 5(3).

3.2

Within 15 days of the Arbitrator being appointed, the Claimant must provide
both the Respondent and the Arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written Statement of Claim which describes the nature of the difference
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the Claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, and the remedy it is seeking; and

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 15 days of receipt of the Claimant’s statements under sub-paragraph (2)
by the Arbitrator and Respondent, the Respondent must provide the Claimant and
the Arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written Statement of Defence responding to the Claimant’s Statement of
Claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the difference, the legal and
factual issues in the Claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any element(s) of
the Claimant’s claim, its contentions as to those elements of the Claimant’s
claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports; and

3.3.c

any objections it wishes to make to the Claimant’s statements, comments on the
Claimant’s expert report(s) (if submitted by the Claimant) and explanations
for the objections.

3.4

Within 5 days of the Respondent serving its statements sub-paragraph (3), the
Claimant may make a Statement of Reply by providing both the Respondent and
the Arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the Respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the Respondent; and

3.4.e

its written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure

4

4.1

The Arbitrator must make an award on the substantive difference based solely
on the written material submitted by the parties unless the Arbitrator decides
that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.2

Either party may, within 2 days of delivery of the last submission, request a
hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is required.

4.3

Within 5 days of receiving the last submission, the Arbitrator will notify the
parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.4

Within 10 days of the Arbitrator advising the parties that he will hold a
hearing, the date and venue for the hearing will be fixed by agreement with
the parties, save that if there is no agreement the Arbitrator must direct a
date and venue which he considers is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the Arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.5

A decision must be made by the Arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the Arbitrator, then any expert(s) attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the Arbitrator.

4.6

There is no process of examination and cross-examination of experts, but the
Arbitrator will invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way of
clarification of any answers given by the expert(s) in response to the
Arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing the procedure for the expert(s)
is—

4.6.a

at least 20 days before a hearing, the Arbitrator will provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the expert(s);

4.6.b

if more than one expert is called, they will jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within 10 days of the issues being provided; and

4.6.c

the form and content of a joint report will be as directed by the Arbitrator
and must be provided at least 5 days before the hearing.

4.7

Within 10 days of a Hearing or a decision by the Arbitrator that no hearing is
to be held the Parties may by way of exchange provide the Arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The Arbitrator will take these submissions into account in the
Award.

4.8

The Arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within 4 months of the date
on which they are appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree to an
extension to the date for the award.

4.9

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the Arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the information before them
attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond any
timetable or in breach of any procedure and/or direction.

4.10

The Arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties will accept that the
extent to which reasons are given is to be proportionate to the issues in
dispute and the time available to the Arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers

5

5.1

The Arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996 , including the
non-mandatory sections, save where modified by these Rules.

5.2

There will be no discovery or disclosure, except that the Arbitrator has the
power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the Statement of Reply, or by the
Arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders should be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the Arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the Arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the Arbitrator may vary the timescales and/or procedure—

5.3.a

if the Arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice and
then;

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the Arbitrator will notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it will be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the Arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs

6

6.1

The costs of the Arbitration must include the fees and expenses of the
Arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the Arbitration.

6.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the Arbitrator must award recoverable costs on
the general principle that each party should bear its own costs.

6.3

The Arbitrator may depart from the general principle in sub-paragraph (2) and
make such other costs award as it considers reasonable where a party has
behaved unreasonably as defined within the Planning Practice Guidance or such
other guidance as may replace it.

##### Confidentiality

7

7.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), any arbitration hearing and
documentation will be confidential and will only be publicly disclosed where
required by law or with the agreement of both parties.

7.2

The Arbitrator may direct that the whole or part of a hearing is to be private
or any documentation to be confidential where it is necessary in order to
protect commercially sensitive information.

7.3

Nothing in this paragraph prevents any disclosure of a document by a party
pursuant to an order of a court in England and Wales or where disclosure is
required under any enactment.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order grants development consent for, and authorises the construction,
operation and maintenance of a pipeline for the transport of carbon dioxide
from Ince, near Stanlow in the County of Cheshire and Chester West to the
Point of Ayr Terminal, Talacre, Flintshire. This Order imposes requirements in
connection with the development and authorises the compulsory purchase of land
(including rights in land) and the right to use land and to override easements
and other rights. A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in
this Order and certified in accordance with article 44 (certification of
plans) may be inspected free of charge at the offices of Liverpool Bay CCS at
Eni House, 10 Ebury Bridge Road, London SW1W 8PZ.

