Title: The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-09-17
Description: These Regulations require the Department to pay a winter fuel payment to a person who, in the week beginning on the third Monday in September in any year, has reached pensionable age, andis ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland and entitled to income support, income-based jobseeker’s allowance, state pension credit, income-related employment and support allowance or universal credit (“relevant benefits”) or an award of child tax credit or working tax credit of not less than £26 in respect of the tax year 2024-25; oris habitually resident in one of the countries listed in Schedule 1 and demonstrates an entitlement to a benefit in that country which is equivalent to a relevant benefit, if that person is covered by the Withdrawal Agreement or one of the other Agreements listed in regulation 2(3)(b) and they are able to demonstrate a genuine and sufficient link to the United Kingdom.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/160

## The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Social Security

  Made   9th September 2024

  Coming into operation   16th September 2024

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 134(2) and 171(1), (3) to (5) of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 ,
sections 5(1)(a) and (i) and 165(1), and (4) to (6) of the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , and Articles 16(1) and 74(1) of,
and paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to, the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order
1998  and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on 16th
September 2024.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

1.3

In these Regulations—

““child tax credit” and “working tax credit”” have the same meanings as in the
Tax Credits Act 2002 ; “ couple ” means— two people who are married to, or
civil partners of, each other and are members of the same household; or two
people who are not married to, or civil partners of, each other but are living
together as if they were a married couple or civil partners; “ polygamous
marriage ” means any marriage which took place under the laws of a country
which permits polygamy where— any member of the marriage is for the time being
married to more than one person; and all the members of the marriage are
members of the same household; “ qualifying week ” means in respect of any
year the week beginning on the third Monday in the September of that year.

### Entitlement to a Winter Fuel Payment

2

2.1

Subject to regulation 4, the Department must pay a winter fuel payment out of
the social fund to a person where—

2.1.a

that person has reached pensionable age in or before the qualifying week; and

2.1.b

in respect of any day falling within the qualifying week, paragraph (2) or (3)
applies to the person.

2.2

This paragraph applies if the person is—

2.2.a

ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland, and

2.2.b

entitled to—

2.2.b.i

a relevant benefit; or

2.2.b.ii

an award of child tax credit or working tax credit of not less than £26 in
respect of the tax year 2024-25.

2.3

This paragraph applies if the person is—

2.3.a

habitually resident in any of the countries listed in Schedule 1;

2.3.b

covered by—

2.3.b.i

Title III of Part 2 of the withdrawal agreement, as set out at Article 30 of
that agreement ;

2.3.b.ii

Title III of Part 2 of the EEA EFTA separation agreement, as set out at
Article 29 of that agreement ;

2.3.b.iii

Part Three of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement, as set out at Article 25
of that agreement ; or

2.3.b.iv

the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland signed at
Dublin on 1st February 2019, as set out in Article 2 of that Convention ; and

2.3.c

able to demonstrate—

2.3.c.i

entitlement to a benefit payable in the country in which the person is
habitually resident that is equivalent to a relevant benefit; and

2.3.c.ii

a genuine and sufficient link to the United Kingdom.

2.4

In this regulation—

“ pensionable age ” has the meaning given by the rules in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995; “ relevant benefit ”
means— income support under Part 7 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992; an income-based jobseeker’s allowance
under the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ; state pension credit
under the State Pension Credit Act (Northern Ireland) 2002 ; an income-related
employment and support allowance under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act
(Northern Ireland) 2007 ; universal credit under Part 2 of the Welfare Reform
(Northern Ireland) Order 2015 ; “ withdrawal agreement ”, “ EEA EFTA
separation agreement ” and “ Swiss citizens’ rights agreement ” have the same
meanings as in section 39(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act
2020 .

2.5

The reference in paragraph (2)(b) and (3)(c)(i) to a person being entitled to
a relevant benefit or tax credit includes where the person is a member of a
couple or polygamous marriage and the other member of the couple or another
member of that marriage is entitled to the benefit or tax credit.

### Amount of Winter Fuel Payment

3

The amount of a winter fuel payment is as follows—

3.a

if the person has reached the age of 80 in or before the qualifying week,
£300;

3.b

if the person has not reached the age of 80 in or before the qualifying week
but they are a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage and the other
member of the couple or another member of that marriage has reached that age
in or before that week, £300; or

3.c

in any other case, £200.

### Persons not entitled to a Winter Fuel Payment

4

4.1

Regulation 2 does not apply in respect of a person who—

4.1.a

throughout the qualifying week, is—

4.1.a.i

one member of a couple where the Department has paid a winter fuel payment in
respect of the qualifying week to the other member of that couple;

4.1.a.ii

a member of a polygamous marriage where the Department has paid a winter fuel
payment in respect of the qualifying week to another member of that marriage;

4.1.a.iii

receiving free in-patient treatment and has been receiving free in-patient
treatment for a period of at least 52 weeks ending immediately before the
qualifying week;

4.1.a.iv

detained in custody under a sentence imposed by a court; or

4.1.a.v

in residential care and has been in residential care for a period of at least
12 weeks ending immediately before the qualifying week;

4.1.b

having been ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on a day falling within
the qualifying week, becomes ordinarily resident in England and Wales or
Scotland by the last day of that week; or

4.1.c

subject to paragraph (2), has not made a claim for a winter fuel payment on or
before 31st March following the qualifying week in respect of the winter
following that week.

4.2

Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply where—

4.2.a

a payment has been made by virtue of regulation 5(1) in respect of the winter
following the qualifying week; or

4.2.b

regulation 5(2) applies.

4.3

In this regulation—

“ nursing home ” has the meaning assigned to it by Article 11 of the Health
and Personal Social Services (Quality, Improvement and Regulation) (Northern
Ireland) Order 2003  which is provided wholly or mainly to persons aged 18 or
over; “ free in-patient treatment ” is to be construed in accordance with
regulation 2(4) and (5) of the Social Security (Hospital In-Patients)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 ; “ independent hospital ” has the meaning
assigned to it by Article 2  of the Health and Personal Social Services
(Quality, Improvement and Regulation) (Northern Ireland) Order 2003; “
residential care ” means, disregarding any period of temporary absence, a
person residing in— a nursing home; an independent hospital; or accommodation
provided under section 3(1) of the Polish Resettlement Act 1947 .

### Making a Winter Fuel Payment without a claim

5

5.1

The Department may, on or before the 31st March following the qualifying week,
pay a winter fuel payment in respect of the winter following the qualifying
week to a person who (disregarding regulation 4(1)(c)) appears to the
Department to be entitled to a payment under regulation 2.

5.2

Where a person becomes entitled to state pension credit , universal credit ,
child tax credit or working tax credit in respect of any day falling within
the qualifying week by virtue of a decision made after that week by the
Department, the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, or the
Appeal Tribunals, the Department may pay a winter fuel payment to that person
in respect of the winter following the qualifying week if (disregarding
regulation 4(1)(c)) it appears to the Department that person is entitled to a
payment under regulation 2.

5.3

Subject to paragraph (4), for the purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2), official
records held by the Department as to a person’s circumstances are sufficient
evidence for the purpose of deciding a person’s entitlement to a winter fuel
payment and its amount.

5.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply so as to exclude the revision of a decision under
Article 10 (revision of decisions) of the Social Security (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998  or the supersession of a decision under Article 11 (decisions
superseding earlier decisions) of that Order or the consideration of fresh
evidence in connection with the revision or supersession of a decision.

### Consequential amendment to the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987

6

6.1

The Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987
are amended as follows.

6.2

In regulation 4(6A)(a)(ii) (making a claim for benefit)  for “regulation
3(1)(b) of the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2000” substitute  “regulation 4(1)(c) of the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024” .

6.3

Omit regulation 35(2) (payment to a partner as alternative payee) .

### Revocations

7

7.1

The Regulations and Orders specified in the first column of the table in
Schedule 2 are revoked to the extent specified in the third column of that
table.

7.2

The following provisions cease to have effect on 1st April 2025—

7.2.a

in regulation 2—

7.2.a.i

in paragraph (1)(b), the words “or (3)”;

7.2.a.ii

paragraph (3);

7.2.a.iii

in paragraph (4), the definition of “withdrawal agreement”, “EEA EFTA
separation agreement” and “Swiss citizens’ rights agreement”; and

7.2.a.iv

in paragraph (5), the words “and (3)(c)(i)”; and

7.2.b

Schedule 1.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 9th
September 2024. (L.S.) David Tarr A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## SCHEDULES

  Countries

Regulation 2(3)(a)

        Countries   Republic of Austria Republic of Latvia Kingdom of Belgium
the Principality of Liechtenstein Republic of Bulgaria Republic of Lithuania
Republic of Croatia Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Czech Republic Kingdom of the
Netherlands Kingdom of Denmark Kingdom of Norway Republic of Estonia Republic
of Poland Republic of Finland Romania Federal Republic of Germany Slovak
Republic Hungary Republic of Slovenia Iceland Kingdom of Sweden     Republic
of Ireland       Italian Republic     Swiss Confederation

  Regulations and Orders revoked

Regulation 7(1)

      Regulations and Orders revoked   Reference   Extent of revocation
The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000 S.R.
2000 No. 91 The whole regulations The Social Fund (Winter Fuel Payment and
Maternity and Funeral Expenses (General)) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2000 S.R. 2000 No. 259 Regulation 2 The Social Fund Winter Fuel
Payment (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000 S.R. 2000 No. 321 The
whole regulations The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Temporary Increase)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000 S.R. 2000 No. 340 The whole regulations
The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2001 S.R. 2001 No. 373 The whole regulations The Social Security (Claims and
Payments and Miscellaneous Amendments No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2002 S.R. 2002 No. 327 Regulation 3 The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 S.R. 2003 No. 349 The whole
regulations The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2003 S.R. 2003 No. 389 The whole regulations The Social
Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2004 S.R.
2004 No. 354 The whole regulations The Social Security (Residential Care
Homes, Nursing Homes and Independent Hospitals) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2005 S.R. 2005 No. 458 Regulation 10 The Social Security (Hospital In-
Patients) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 S.R. 2005 No. 580 Regulation 6
The Civil Partnership (Pensions, Social Security and Child Support)
(Consequential, etc. Provisions) Order (Northern Ireland) 2005 S.R. 2005 No.
536 Paragraph 26 of Schedule 3 The Employment and Support Allowance
(Consequential Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 S.R. 2008 No.
286 Regulation 24 The Social Security (Equalisation of State Pension Age)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 S.R. 2010 No. 103 Regulation 6 The Social
Security (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2012 S.R.
2012 No. 121 Regulation 16 The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2013 S.R. 2013 No. 191 The whole regulations
The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2015 S.R. 2015 No. 216 The whole regulations The Social Security
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 S.R. 2015 No.
34 Regulation 4 The Social Security (Reciprocal Agreements) (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2021 S.R. 2021 No. 207 Regulation 2
The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Temporary Increase) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 S.R. 2023 No. 85 The whole regulations

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations require the Department to pay a winter fuel payment to a
person who, in the week beginning on the third Monday in September in any
year, has reached pensionable age, and         is ordinarily resident in
Northern Ireland and entitled to income support, income-based jobseeker’s
allowance, state pension credit, income-related employment and support
allowance or universal credit (“relevant benefits”) or an award of child tax
credit or working tax credit of not less than £26 in respect of the tax year
2024-25; or           is habitually resident in one of the countries listed in
Schedule 1 and demonstrates an entitlement to a benefit in that country which
is equivalent to a relevant benefit, if that person is covered by the
Withdrawal Agreement or one of the other Agreements listed in regulation
2(3)(b) and they are able to demonstrate a genuine and sufficient link to the
United Kingdom.

  A person is not entitled to a winter fuel payment where the person:
is a member of a couple where the Department has paid a winter fuel payment in
respect of the qualifying week to the other member of the couple;           is
a member of a polygamous marriage where the Department has paid a winter fuel
payment in respect of the qualifying week to another member of that marriage.
has been in hospital getting free treatment for more than a year;           is
in prison serving a sentence throughout the qualifying week;           is in
residential care throughout the qualifying week and the period of 12 weeks
immediately before that week; or           has not made a claim for winter
fuel payment by 31 March following the qualifying week.

  There are exceptions to the requirements to make a claim for a winter fuel
payment. The first exception applies if the Department has paid a winter fuel
payment to a person who appears to be eligible (based on official records)
before 31 March.

  The second exception applies if a person becomes entitled to state pension
credit, universal credit, child tax credit or working tax credit in respect of
a day in the qualifying week by virtue of a decision made after that week. In
those circumstances, a winter fuel payment may be paid to the person if it
appears to the Department that they are eligible.

  The amount of a winter fuel payment is £300, if the person has reached the
age of 80 in or before the qualifying week or they are in a couple or a
polygamous marriage and the other member of that couple or marriage has
reached that age, and £200, in any other case.

  These Regulations revoke the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2000 ( S.R. 2000 No. 91 ) as well as provisions amending
those Regulations. Provision is also made for the provisions giving
entitlement to winter fuel payments to persons habitually resident in one of
the countries listed in Schedule 1 to expire on 1st April 2025.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 150(1)(a) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the
requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as it has
no impact on the private or voluntary sectors.

