Title: The Benefit Cap (Annual Limit) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-03-28
Description: These Regulations revoke and re-enact the provisions of the Benefit Cap (Annual Limit) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 which would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of Article 102(1A) of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/58

## The Benefit Cap (Annual Limit) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under Article 102(1A) of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order
2015 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months from the
date of their coming into operation.

    Social Security

  Made   20th March 2024

  Coming into operation in accordance with regulation 1

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 101(5) and (5B), 101A(1) and (2)
of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 . The Secretary of State
has made Regulations under section 96A(4) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012,
which amend section 96(5A)(b) of that Act and the Department exercises the
power to make corresponding Regulations amending Article 101(5A) of the
Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Benefit Cap (Annual Limit) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 21st March 2024.

1.3

The amendments made by regulations 2 and 3 apply in relation to an award of
universal credit whenever made but only in relation to each assessment period
in respect of that award which begins on or after 10th April 2023.

1.4

The amendments made by regulations 2 and 4 apply only on and after 3rd April
2023 in relation to housing benefit in respect of rent payable at intervals of
a week or any multiple of a week.

1.5

In this regulation “ housing benefit ” means housing benefit under section 129
of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992
.

### Amendment of the Welfare Reform Order

2

In Article 101(5A) of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015
(benefit cap)  for “£20,000 or £13,400” substitute  “£22,020 or £14,753” .

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations

3

In regulation 80A(2) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016 (relevant amount) —

3.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£13,400” substitute  “£14,753” ;

3.b

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£20,000” substitute  “£22,020” .

### Amendment of the Housing Benefit Regulations

4

In regulation 73CA(2) of the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2006 (determination of the relevant amount) —

4.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£13,400” substitute  “£14,753” ;

4.b

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£20,000” substitute  “£22,020” .

### Revocation

5

The Benefit Cap (Annual Limit) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023  are revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 20th
March 2024       (L.S.)   Paddy Rooney   A Senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## Explanatory Note

    (This is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations revoke and re-enact the provisions of the Benefit Cap
(Annual Limit) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 which
would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of Article 102(1A) of the
Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015.

  These Regulations are made following a review by the Secretary of State
under section 96A of the Welfare Reform Act  2012 (c. 5) , and amend the sums
specified as the annual limit for the purposes of the benefit cap.

  Regulation 1 brings these Regulations into operation for all purposes on
21st March 2024 subject to the provisions in regulation 1(3) and (4). The
amended annual limits will only apply to an award of universal credit in
relation to each assessment period commencing on or after 10th April 2023. For
an award of housing benefit in respect of which rent is paid at intervals of a
week or multiples thereof, the amended annual limits will only apply from 3rd
April 2023.

  Regulation 2 amends the annual limit as set out in Article 101(5A) of the
Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/2006 ).

  Regulation 3 makes a consequential amendment to the Universal Credit
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 216 ) as, in order to
calculate and apply the benefit cap, the annual limit is also specified in the
secondary legislation.

  Regulation 4 makes a consequential amendment to the Housing Benefit
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 ( S.R. 2006 No. 405 ) as, in order to
calculate and apply the benefit cap, the annual limit is also specified in the
secondary legislation.

  Regulation 5 revokes the Benefit Cap (Annual Limit) (Amendment No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 ( S.R. 2023 No. 147 ).

  These Regulations make provision corresponding to provision contained in
Regulations made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in relation
to Great Britain and accordingly, by virtue of section 149(3) of, and
paragraphs 3A and 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 8)  are not subject to the requirement of
section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social Security Advisory
Committee.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as no,
or no significant, impact on the private, public or voluntary sectors is
foreseen.

