Title: The Medical Certificate of Cause of Death Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-10-31
Description: These Regulations make provision for the certification of deaths in England and Wales by attending practitioners and medical examiners.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/492

## The Medical Certificate of Cause of Death Regulations 2024

    MEDICAL PROFESSION, ENGLAND AND WALES       CORONERS, ENGLAND AND WALES

  Made   at 6.25 p.m. on 11th April 2024

  Laid before Parliament   15th April 2024

  Coming into force   9th September 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 20(1)(a) to (k), (m) and (o), and 176(3) of the Coroners
and Justice Act 2009  and section 26(2) of the Welsh Language Act 1993 .
In accordance with section 20(3) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, the
Secretary of State has consulted the Welsh Ministers, the Registrar General
and the Statistics Board in relation to the forms prescribed under section
20(1)(m) of that Act.

### General

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death
Regulations 2024 and come into force on 9th September 2024.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to a death that is required to be
registered under Part 2 of the 1953 Act .

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Coroners and Justice Act 2009;           “
appropriate medical examiner ” means a medical examiner to whom the death has
been allocated by an English NHS body or a Welsh NHS body, as the case may be;
“ attending practitioner ” means a registered medical practitioner  who
attended the deceased before their death;           “ attending practitioner’s
certificate ” has the meaning given in regulation 3(3);           “ confirmed
attending practitioner’s certificate ” has the meaning given in regulation
11(3);           “ English NHS body ” has the meaning set out in section
18A(4) of the Act (Medical Examiners: England) ;           “ health record ”
has the meaning given by section 1 of the Access to Health Records Act 1990
(“health record” and related expressions) ;           “ medical examiner’s
certificate ” has the meaning given in regulation 19(2);           “ other
relevant medical practitioner ” means a registered medical practitioner  who,
in relation to a death, is not a relevant attending practitioner, but has—
made a notification or referral to a senior coroner under any enactment,
sought advice from a medical examiner; or           sought to fulfil any
function under these Regulations;                 “ relevant attending
practitioner ” means the attending practitioner who has—         prepared the
attending practitioner’s certificate under regulation 3(1)(b)(i), and
made available such certificate to the appropriate medical examiner under
regulation 3(1)(c)(i);                 “ relevant health records ” means
health records containing information about—         any disease or condition
which may have led directly or indirectly to the death, or           any other
disease or condition which may have significantly contributed to the death;
“ relevant senior coroner ”, in relation to a death, means the senior coroner
appointed for the coroner area  in which the body of the deceased person lies;
“ Welsh NHS body ” has the meaning set out in section 18B(3) of the Act
(Medical Examiners: Wales) .

### Attending practitioner’s certificate

#### Attending practitioner’s certificate

3

3.1

As soon as practicable after becoming aware of a death, an attending
practitioner must—

3.1.a

review—

3.1.a.i

the deceased person’s relevant health records;

3.1.a.ii

the results of any physical examination of the body of the deceased person
undertaken by the practitioner or any other registered medical practitioner;
and

3.1.a.iii

any other information which the practitioner considers relevant,

with a view to establishing the cause of death to the best of the
practitioner’s knowledge and belief;

3.1.b

either—

3.1.b.i

prepare and sign an attending practitioner’s certificate; or

3.1.b.ii

where they are not able to establish the cause of death, refer the death to
the relevant senior coroner; and

3.1.c

where they have prepared and signed an attending practitioner’s certificate,
make available to an appropriate medical examiner—

3.1.c.i

the attending practitioner’s certificate; and

3.1.c.ii

the deceased person’s relevant health records and any other information
reviewed under sub-paragraph (1)(a).

3.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply where—

3.2.a

another attending practitioner has given an attending practitioner’s
certificate to an appropriate medical examiner in relation to the death;

3.2.b

the relevant senior coroner has referred the death to an appropriate medical
examiner under regulation 15(1); or

3.2.c

the relevant senior coroner has decided that there is a duty to conduct an
investigation into the death under section 1 of the Act.

3.3

For the purposes of these Regulations, “ attending practitioner’s certificate
” means the certificate referred to in section 20(1)(a)(i) of the Act which
shall take the form of—

3.3.a

in the case of a death of a child within the period of 28 days beginning with
the day of the child’s birth, the certificate in either of the forms set out
in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 1;

3.3.b

in the case of any other death, the certificate in either of the forms set out
in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 2.

#### Attending practitioner’s referral to the relevant senior coroner

4

4.1

If at that time there are exceptional circumstances to justify doing so, a
referral under regulation 3(1)(b)(ii) may be made orally, but otherwise must
be in writing.

4.2

An attending practitioner who makes a referral to the relevant senior coroner
orally under paragraph (1) must, as soon as practicable thereafter, confirm
the referral in writing to the relevant senior coroner.

4.3

When making a referral under regulation 3(1)(b)(ii), or as soon as practicable
thereafter, in addition to complying with the duty set out in regulation 2 of
the Notification of Deaths Regulations 2019 , the attending practitioner must
provide to the relevant senior coroner any information referred to in
regulation 3(1)(a) not already provided to the relevant senior coroner.

4.4

Subject to paragraph (5), where the relevant senior coroner has—

4.4.a

received a referral or notification of a death under any enactment; and

4.4.b

decided that there is no duty under section 1 of the Act to conduct an
investigation into the death,

the relevant senior coroner must notify the attending practitioner of that
decision and the reasons for it.

4.5

Paragraph (4) does not apply to a referral to the relevant senior coroner
under regulations 10(1) or 20(1).

4.6

Where an attending practitioner receives a notification under paragraph (4),
the practitioner must, as soon as practicable, comply with any duties of the
practitioner under these Regulations that had not been complied with prior to
the referral or notification of the death to the relevant senior coroner.

#### Duties of medical examiner after receiving attending practitioner’s certificate

5

Regulations 6 to 13 apply where an appropriate medical examiner is provided
with an attending practitioner’s certificate under regulation 3(1)(c)(i) or
regulation 13(2)(b)(i) in relation to a death.

#### Medical examiner’s scrutiny of cause of death

6

6.1

The appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as practicable, with a view to
confirming the cause of death—

6.1.a

make whatever enquiries the examiner considers necessary;

6.1.b

take into account any conclusions drawn from any enquiries made under sub-
paragraph (a) and any information provided under regulations 3(1)(c) and
13(4); and

6.1.c

take into account any other information which the examiner considers relevant.

6.2

The appropriate medical examiner must make a record of any conclusions drawn
from the enquiries made and information considered in sub-paragraphs (1)(a),
(b) and (c).

6.3

The appropriate medical examiner may undertake an external examination of the
body of the deceased person, or, subject to paragraphs (4) to (7), instruct
another individual to do so on their behalf, with a view to confirming the
cause of death.

6.4

The appropriate medical examiner may only appoint another individual to
undertake an external examination of the body of the deceased person for the
purpose of paragraph (3) where—

6.4.a

in the opinion of the examiner that individual has suitable expertise; and

6.4.b

none of the circumstances in paragraph (5) apply.

6.5

The circumstances are that the individual—

6.5.a

is the spouse, ex-spouse, civil partner or ex-civil partner of—

6.5.a.i

the deceased person (“ D ”);

6.5.a.ii

the relevant attending practitioner (“ AP ”); or

6.5.a.iii

any other relevant medical practitioner (“ OP ”);

6.5.b

is, or was, living together with D, AP or OP as if they were a spouse or civil
partner;

6.5.c

is, or was, closely related to D, AP or OP;

6.5.d

is or, was, a partner, employer, employee or associate of D, AP or OP;

6.5.e

attended D during the course of D’s last illness;

6.5.f

had a financial interest in D’s estate; or

6.5.g

has or had any other association, relationship or connection with D, AP or OP
such as to give the appropriate medical examiner reasonable doubt as to the
practitioner’s objectivity to carry out an external examination of D.

6.6

In sub-paragraph (5)(c), “ closely related ” means a parent, sister, half-
sister, brother, half-brother, son, daughter, uncle, aunt, grandparent,
grandchild, first cousin, nephew, niece, parent-in-law, grandchild-in-law,
sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepchild, step-
parent, stepbrother or stepsister.

6.7

In paragraph (6), references to step relationships and in-laws are to be read
in accordance with section 246 (interpretation of statutory references to
stepchildren etc) of the Civil Partnership Act 2004 .

#### Relevant attending practitioner’s duty to respond to medical examiner enquiries

7

7.1

The relevant attending practitioner must be available, as far as reasonably
practicable, to respond to any enquiries that the appropriate medical examiner
may have in connection with the attending practitioner’s certificate.

7.2

The appropriate medical examiner must make a record of—

7.2.a

the relevant attending practitioner’s response to any enquiries made under
paragraph (1); and

7.2.b

any discussions that take place between the examiner and the relevant
attending practitioner in relation to the attending practitioner’s
certificate.

#### Medical examiner’s duty to discuss the cause of death

8

8.1

The appropriate medical examiner, or someone acting on behalf of the examiner,
must, as soon as practicable—

8.1.a

take reasonable steps to discuss the cause of death with a person who is
qualified to give information concerning the death under sections 16(2) or
17(2) of the 1953 Act or any other person whom the examiner considers
appropriate;

8.1.b

offer a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) an opportunity to raise any
matter which might cause the relevant senior coroner to think that there is a
duty to investigate the death under section 1 of the Act; and

8.1.c

make a summary record of any discussion under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) and
its outcome.

8.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply where, in the case of a death for which a revised
attending practitioner’s certificate has been completed under regulation
13(2)(a), the appropriate medical examiner or someone acting on their behalf
has previously complied with the requirements of paragraph (1) in relation to
the death.

#### Medical examiner’s confirmation of cause of death

9

9.1

Paragraph (2) applies where, after complying with regulations 6 and 8 in
relation to a death, the appropriate medical examiner is satisfied that—

9.1.a

the cause of death stated on the attending practitioner’s certificate relating
to the death is accurate; and

9.1.b

that certificate is duly completed.

9.2

The appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as practicable, confirm the
cause of death as stated on the attending practitioner’s certificate by
signing that certificate (“confirmed attending practitioner’s certificate”).

#### Medical examiner’s referral to the relevant senior coroner

10

10.1

The appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as practicable, refer the death
to the relevant senior coroner where—

10.1.a

after complying with regulations 6 and 8 in relation to the death, the
examiner is unable to confirm the cause of death; or

10.1.b

in the course of complying with regulations 6 and 8 in relation to the death,
the examiner forms the opinion that the duty to notify the relevant senior
coroner arises under regulation 2 of the Notification of Deaths Regulations
2019.

10.2

If at that time there are exceptional circumstances to justify doing so, a
referral under paragraph (1) may be made orally but otherwise must be in
writing.

10.3

The medical examiner who notifies the relevant senior coroner orally under
paragraph (2) must, as soon as practicable thereafter, confirm the referral in
writing to the relevant senior coroner.

10.4

When making a referral under paragraph (1), or as soon as practicable
thereafter, in addition to complying with the duties set out in regulation 2
of the Notification of Deaths Regulations 2019, the appropriate medical
examiner must provide the following information to the relevant senior coroner
in relation to the death—

10.4.a

the information provided under regulation 3(1)(c)(ii);

10.4.b

any record made under regulation 7(2);

10.4.c

any record made under regulation 8(1)(c); and

10.4.d

any other information the examiner considers appropriate,

except where that information has already been provided to the relevant senior
coroner.

10.5

Where, after receiving a referral under paragraph (1), the relevant senior
coroner decides that there is a duty to conduct an investigation into the
death under section 1 of the Act—

10.5.a

the relevant senior coroner must notify the appropriate medical examiner of
that decision; and

10.5.b

the appropriate medical examiner must notify the relevant attending
practitioner of that notification.

10.6

Where the relevant senior coroner has received a referral under paragraph (1)
and decided that there is no duty to conduct an investigation into the death
under section 1 of the Act, the relevant senior coroner must—

10.6.a

notify an appropriate medical examiner of that decision and the reasons for
it; and

10.6.b

provide the examiner with a copy of any information relied upon in making that
decision, except where that information was provided under paragraph (4).

10.7

After receiving a notification under paragraph (6), the appropriate medical
examiner must—

10.7.a

notify the attending practitioner of the relevant senior coroner’s decision
and reasons for it; and

10.7.b

make available to the attending practitioner any information provided under
paragraph (6)(b).

10.8

Where an appropriate medical examiner notifies an attending practitioner under
paragraph (7), the attending practitioner and appropriate medical examiner
must comply with any duties under these Regulations in relation to the death
that had not been complied with prior to the referral to the relevant senior
coroner under paragraph (1).

#### Confirmed attending practitioner’s certificate to be given to registrar

11

11.1

The appropriate medical examiner must, without unreasonable delay after
confirming the cause of death under regulation 9(2), notify a registrar that
the cause of death has been confirmed by giving the confirmed attending
practitioner’s certificate to the registrar.

11.2

After complying with the duty in paragraph (1), the appropriate medical
examiner must, without unreasonable delay, take reasonable steps to ensure
that a person mentioned in regulation 8(1)(a) is aware that the confirmed
attending practitioner’s certificate has been given to the registrar in
accordance with paragraph (1).

11.3

In these Regulations, “ confirmed attending practitioner’s certificate ” means
an attending practitioner’s certificate in respect of which the cause of death
has been confirmed by a medical examiner in accordance with regulation 9(2).

#### Invitation to attending practitioner to issue a revised attending practitioner’s certificate

12

12.1

Where an informant  provides the registrar with information which leads the
registrar to believe that the cause of death stated on the confirmed attending
practitioner’s certificate may need to be revised, the registrar must consult
an appropriate medical examiner as to any such revision.

12.2

After consultation with the registrar in accordance with paragraph (1), the
appropriate medical examiner must either—

12.2.a

make available to an attending practitioner the information provided under
paragraph (1), invite the attending practitioner to revise the attending
practitioner’s certificate and inform the registrar of the invitation to
revise; or

12.2.b

inform the registrar of the examiner’s reasons not to invite the attending
practitioner to revise the attending practitioner’s certificate.

#### Revised attending practitioner’s certificate

13

13.1

Where the attending practitioner has been invited to revise the attending
practitioner’s certificate under regulation 12, the attending practitioner
must, as soon as practicable, review—

13.1.a

the deceased person’s relevant health records;

13.1.b

the results of any physical examination of the body of the deceased person
undertaken by the practitioner or any other registered medical practitioner;

13.1.c

any information provided under regulation 12(2)(a); and

13.1.d

any other information which the practitioner considers relevant,

with a view to establishing the cause of death to the best of the
practitioner’s knowledge and belief.

13.2

Where the attending practitioner agrees to revise the attending practitioner’s
certificate, the attending practitioner must, as soon as practicable—

13.2.a

revise the attending practitioner’s certificate; and

13.2.b

make available to an appropriate medical examiner—

13.2.b.i

the revised attending practitioner’s certificate;

13.2.b.ii

any information considered under paragraph (1) that has not already been
provided to the examiner; and

13.2.b.iii

any other information relevant to establishing the cause of death, except
where that information was provided under regulation 3(1)(c).

13.3

Paragraphs (4) to (6) apply where, after fulfilling the duties in paragraph
(1), the attending practitioner does not agree to revise the attending
practitioner’s certificate in relation to a death.

13.4

The attending practitioner must, as soon as practicable, make available to an
appropriate medical examiner—

13.4.a

the attending practitioner’s certificate;

13.4.b

any information considered under sub-paragraph (1)(b);

13.4.c

any other information relevant to establishing the cause of death, except
where that information was provided under regulation 3(1)(c); and

13.4.d

the attending practitioner’s reasons for not agreeing to revise the attending
practitioner’s certificate.

13.5

The appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as practicable—

13.5.a

review the information provided under paragraph (4);

13.5.b

to the extent the examiner considers appropriate, comply with the duties set
out in regulations 6 to 8 afresh; and

13.5.c

comply with the duties set out in regulations 9 to 11 afresh.

13.6

When complying with regulation 11 afresh pursuant to sub-paragraph (5)(c), the
appropriate medical examiner must inform the registrar of—

13.6.a

the attending practitioner’s decision not to revise the attending
practitioner’s certificate and the reasons for that decision; and

13.6.b

any other information the examiner considers relevant.

#### Attending practitioner’s availability to fulfil duties

14

Where an attending practitioner is unable to carry out any duties imposed on
the practitioner under this Part within a reasonable time, another attending
practitioner must carry out those duties.

### Medical examiner’s certificate

#### Relevant senior coroner referral to a medical examiner

15

15.1

Where the relevant senior coroner is notified of a person’s death under
regulation 2 of the Notification of Deaths Regulations 2019 because the
circumstances described in regulation 3(1)(e) or (f) of those Regulations
apply, the relevant senior coroner must refer that death to an appropriate
medical examiner.

15.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply where—

15.2.a

the relevant senior coroner has decided that there is a duty to conduct an
investigation into the death under section 1 of the Act; or

15.2.b

at the time of the death, the deceased had a relevant association with a
visiting force.

15.3

In making a referral under paragraph (1), the relevant senior coroner must
make available to the appropriate medical examiner the reasons for the
referral and a copy of such information relied upon in making it.

15.4

In paragraph (2), references to a visiting force, and to a person’s having, at
the time of death, a relevant association with a visiting force, have the same
meaning given to those expressions in section 12 of the Visiting Forces Act
1952 .

#### Duties of medical examiner after receiving referral from relevant senior coroner

16

Regulations 17 to 23 apply where a death is referred by the relevant senior
coroner to an appropriate medical examiner under regulation 15(1).

#### Referral by relevant senior coroner: medical examiner’s duties

17

17.1

The appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as practicable and with a view
to establishing the cause of death to the best of the examiner’s knowledge and
belief—

17.1.a

review the deceased person’s relevant health records;

17.1.b

make whatever enquiries the examiner considers necessary; and

17.1.c

take into account any information—

17.1.c.i

provided under regulation 15(3); and

17.1.c.ii

which the examiner considers relevant.

17.2

The appropriate medical examiner must make a record of any conclusions drawn
from taking into account the information referred to in paragraph (1).

17.3

The appropriate medical examiner may undertake an external examination of the
body of the deceased person, or, subject to paragraphs (4) to (7), instruct
another individual to do so on their behalf, with a view to establishing the
cause of death to the best of their knowledge and belief.

17.4

The appropriate medical examiner may only appoint another individual to
undertake an external examination of the body of the deceased person for the
purpose of paragraph (3) where—

17.4.a

in the opinion of the examiner, the individual has suitable expertise; and

17.4.b

none of the circumstances in paragraph (5) apply.

17.5

The circumstances are that the individual—

17.5.a

is the spouse, ex-spouse, civil partner or ex-civil partner of—

17.5.a.i

the deceased person (“ D ”); or

17.5.a.ii

an other relevant medical practitioner (“ OP ”);

17.5.b

is, or was, living together with D or OP as if they were a spouse or civil
partner;

17.5.c

is, or was, closely related to D or OP;

17.5.d

attended D during the course of D’s last illness;

17.5.e

is or, was, a partner, employer, employee or associate of D or OP;

17.5.f

had a financial interest in D’s estate; or

17.5.g

has or had any other association, relationship or connection with D or OP such
as to give the appropriate medical examiner reasonable doubt as to the
individual’s objectivity to carry out an external examination of D.

17.6

In paragraph (5), “ closely related ” means a parent, sister, half-sister,
brother, half-brother, son, daughter, uncle, aunt, grandparent, grandchild,
first cousin, nephew, niece, parent-in-law, grandchild-in-law, sister-in-law,
brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepchild, step-parent,
stepbrother or stepsister.

17.7

In paragraph (6), references to step relationships and in-laws are to be read
in accordance with section 246 (interpretation of statutory references to
stepchildren etc) of the Civil Partnership Act 2004.

#### Medical examiner’s duty to discuss the cause of death

18

The appropriate medical examiner, or someone acting on behalf of the examiner,
must, as soon as practicable—

18.a

take reasonable steps to discuss the cause of death with a person who is
qualified to give information concerning the death under sections 16(2) or
17(2) of the 1953 Act or any other person whom the examiner considers
appropriate;

18.b

offer a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) an opportunity to raise any
matter which might cause the relevant senior coroner to think that there is a
duty to investigate the death under section 1 of the Act; and

18.c

make a summary record of any discussion under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) and
its outcome.

#### Preparation of medical examiner’s certificate

19

19.1

Subject to regulation 20(1), the appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as
practicable after complying with regulations 17 and 18 in relation to a death,
prepare and sign a medical examiner’s certificate.

19.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, “ medical examiner’s certificate ”
means the certificate referred to in section 20(1)(h)(i) of the Act which
shall take the form of—

19.2.a

in the case of a death of a child within the period of 28 days beginning with
the day of the child’s birth, the certificate in either of the forms set out
in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 3;

19.2.b

in the case of any other death, the certificate in either of the forms set out
in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 4.

#### Medical examiner’s referral back to the relevant senior coroner

20

20.1

The appropriate medical examiner must, as soon as practicable, refer the death
back to the relevant senior coroner where the examiner—

20.1.a

after complying with regulations 17 and 18 in relation to the death, is unable
to establish the cause of death to the best of the examiner’s knowledge and
belief; or

20.1.b

forms the opinion that the duty to notify the relevant senior coroner arises
under regulation 2 of the Notification of Deaths Regulations 2019.

20.2

If at that time there are exceptional circumstances to justify doing so, a
referral under paragraph (1) may be made orally but otherwise must be in
writing.

20.3

An appropriate medical examiner who refers a death back to the relevant senior
coroner orally under paragraph (2) must, as soon as practicable thereafter,
confirm the referral in writing to the relevant senior coroner.

20.4

When making a referral under paragraph (1), or as soon as practicable
thereafter, in addition to complying with the duties set out in regulation 2
of the Notification of Deaths Regulations 2019, the appropriate medical
examiner must provide the following information to the relevant senior
coroner—

20.4.a

the deceased person’s relevant health records and any other information that
was considered under regulation 17(1);

20.4.b

the record made under regulation 17(2);

20.4.c

any record made under regulation 18(c); and

20.4.d

any other information the medical examiner considers appropriate,

except where that information has already been provided to the relevant senior
coroner.

20.5

Where, after receiving a referral under paragraph (1), the relevant senior
coroner decides that there is a duty to conduct an investigation into the
death under section 1 of the Act, the relevant senior coroner must notify the
appropriate medical examiner of that decision.

20.6

Where the relevant senior coroner has received a referral under paragraph (1)
and decided that there is no duty to conduct an investigation into the death
under section 1 of the Act, the relevant senior coroner must—

20.6.a

notify the appropriate medical examiner of that decision and the reasons for
it; and

20.6.b

provide the examiner with a copy of any information relied upon in making that
decision, except where that information was provided under paragraph (4).

20.7

After receiving a notification under paragraph (6), the appropriate medical
examiner must comply with any duties of the examiner under regulations 17 to
19 and this regulation in relation to the death that had not been complied
with prior to the referral to the relevant senior coroner under paragraph (1).

#### Medical examiner’s certificate to be given to a registrar

21

21.1

The appropriate medical examiner must, without unreasonable delay after
preparing and signing a medical examiner’s certificate under regulation 19,
notify a registrar that a certificate has been prepared by giving the medical
examiner’s certificate to the registrar.

21.2

After complying with the duty in paragraph (1), the appropriate medical
examiner must, without unreasonable delay, take reasonable steps to ensure
that a person mentioned in regulation 18(a) is aware that the medical
examiner’s certificate has been given to the registrar in accordance with
paragraph (1).

#### Registrar’s invitation to medical examiner to issue a revised medical examiner’s certificate

22

Where an informant provides the registrar with information which leads the
registrar to believe that the cause of death stated on the medical examiner’s
certificate may need to be revised, the registrar must provide that
information to the appropriate medical examiner and invite the examiner to
revise the medical examiner’s certificate.

#### Revised medical examiner’s certificate

23

23.1

Where an appropriate medical examiner has been invited to revise the medical
examiner’s certificate under regulation 22, the examiner must, as soon as
practicable and to the extent they consider appropriate, review—

23.1.a

the deceased person’s relevant health records;

23.1.b

any information provided under regulation 22; and

23.1.c

any other information which the examiner considers relevant,

with a view to establishing the cause of death to the best of the examiner’s
knowledge and belief.

23.2

Where the appropriate medical examiner agrees to revise the medical examiner’s
certificate, the examiner must, as soon as practicable—

23.2.a

comply with the duties set out in regulation 18 afresh, to the extent that the
examiner considers appropriate;

23.2.b

comply with the duties set out in regulations 19, 20 and 21 afresh; and

23.2.c

without unreasonable delay, take reasonable steps to ensure that the informant
is aware that the revised medical examiner’s certificate has been given to the
registrar under regulation 21(1).

23.3

Where the appropriate medical examiner does not agree to revise the medical
examiner’s certificate, the examiner must either—

23.3.a

inform the registrar of their decision not to revise the certificate and the
reasons for it; or

23.3.b

make a referral to the relevant senior coroner under regulation 20.

### Miscellaneous provisions

#### Manner of providing documents

24

24.1

In these Regulations any requirement to—

24.1.a

give an attending practitioner’s certificate or a medical examiner’s
certificate or other document to a person may be satisfied by causing that
certificate or document to be given by an electronic communication; and

24.1.b

sign an attending practitioner’s certificate or medical examiner’s certificate
may be satisfied by providing an electronic signature but only where the
certificate to be signed is also in electronic form.

24.2

In this regulation—

24.2.a

“ electronic communication ” has the meaning given in section 15(1) of the
Electronic Communications Act 2000 ;

24.2.b

“ electronic signature ” has the meaning given in section 7(2) of that Act .

#### Availability of certificates and forms

25

The Secretary of State must—

25.a

make the certificates set out in Schedules 1 and 2 available to registered
medical practitioners;

25.b

make the certificates and forms set out in Schedules 3 and 4 available to
medical examiners.

### Transitional provision

#### Transitional provision

26

26.1

Except where paragraph (2) applies, these Regulations do not apply in relation
to a death which occurs before the coming into force of these Regulations.

26.2

This paragraph applies where, before the coming into force of these
Regulations—

26.2.a

the death has not been registered under Part 2 of the 1953 Act;

26.2.b

prior to the coming into force of these Regulations, a registered medical
practitioner had not signed a certificate in the prescribed form in accordance
with section 22(1) of the 1953 Act (Certificates of cause of death)  in
relation to the death; and

26.2.c

a senior coroner is not under a duty to hold an inquest into the death under
section 6 of the Act.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care
Maria Caulfield   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department of
Health and Social Care     at 6.25 p.m. on 11th April 2024

## Schedules

  Attending practitioner’s certificate – live-born child dying within the
period of 28 days beginning with the day of the child’s birth

Regulation 3

##### English form





##### English and Welsh form









  Attending practitioner’s certificate – other cases

Regulation 3

##### English form





##### English and Welsh Form











  Medical examiner’s certificate – live-born child dying within the period of
28 days beginning with the day of the child’s birth

Regulation 19

##### English form





##### English and Welsh form









  Medical examiner’s certificate – other cases

Regulation 19

##### English form





##### English and Welsh form











## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for the certification of deaths in England
and Wales by attending practitioners and medical examiners.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision for the completion and
confirmation of an attending practitioner’s certificate in relation to a
death.

  Regulation 3 requires an attending practitioner to prepare and sign an
attending practitioner’s certificate stating the cause of death, or
alternatively to refer the death to the relevant senior coroner in specified
circumstances.

  Regulation 4 sets out the obligations of attending practitioners and
relevant senior coroners where a case has been referred by an attending
practitioner to a senior coroner, and the process for making such a referral.

  Regulation 6 requires the appropriate medical examiner to make appropriate
enquiries and take into account specified information with a view to
confirming the cause of death.

  Regulation 7 requires the relevant attending practitioner to be available to
respond to any enquiries that the appropriate medical examiner might have in
connection to the attending practitioner’s certificate, and that the
appropriate medical examiner must make a record of any response to such
enquiries.

  Regulation 8 requires the appropriate medical examiner (or someone acting on
their behalf) to discuss the cause of death with the prospective informant or
such other person as the examiner considers appropriate.

  Regulation 9 requires the appropriate medical examiner to confirm the cause
of death by signing the attending practitioner’s certificate once they are
satisfied that the specified conditions have been met. In the alternative,
regulation 10 requires the appropriate medical examiner to refer the death to
the relevant senior coroner, and sets out the duties of appropriate medical
examiners and relevant senior coroners following such a referral.

  Regulation 11 requires that, where an appropriate medical examiner is able
to confirm the cause of death stated on the attending practitioner’s
certificate, that without unreasonable delay the confirmed attending
practitioner’s certificate is given to the registrar and reasonable steps are
taken to ensure that a prospective informant is aware that they have done so.

  Regulation 12 provides that a registrar must consult with an appropriate
medical examiner where an informant provides the registrar with information
which leads that registrar to believe that the cause of death stated on the
confirmed attending practitioner’s certificate may need to be revised. The
appropriate medical examiner may invite an attending practitioner to revise
the attending practitioner’s certificate.

  Regulation 13 sets out the duties of attending practitioners and appropriate
medical examiners where the appropriate medical examiner has invited the
attending practitioner to revise the attending practitioner’s certificate.

  Regulation 14 provides that where the attending practitioner is unable to
carry out their duties within a reasonable time, another attending
practitioner must carry out any duties imposed under Part 2.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision for the completion of a medical
examiner’s certificate in relation to a death.

  Regulation 15 requires a senior coroner to refer a death to the appropriate
medical examiner in certain cases.

  Regulation 17 requires a medical examiner, upon receipt of a referral made
under regulation 15, to review the deceased’s health records, make relevant
enquiries and consider any other relevant information with a view to
establishing the cause of death to the best of the examiner’s knowledge and
belief.

  Regulation 18 requires the appropriate medical examiner to discuss the cause
of death with the prospective informant or such other person as considered
appropriate.

  Regulation 19 requires the appropriate medical examiner to prepare and sign
a medical examiner’s certificate where the appropriate medical examiner is
able to establish a cause of death. In the alternative, regulation 20 requires
the appropriate medical examiner to refer the death back to the relevant
senior coroner, and sets out the requirements on appropriate medical examiners
and senior coroners following such a referral.

  Regulation 21 requires that, where an appropriate medical examiner has
issued a medical examiner’s certificate under regulation 19, that without
unreasonable delay the certificate is given to the registrar and reasonable
steps are taken to ensure that a prospective informant is aware that they have
done so.

  Regulation 22 provides for a registrar to invite an appropriate medical
examiner to revise the medical examiner’s certificate where an informant
provides the registrar with information which leads that registrar to believe
that the cause of death stated on the confirmed attending practitioner’s
certificate may need to be revised.

  Regulation 23 sets out the duties on appropriate medical examiners where the
registrar has invited the appropriate medical examiner to revise the medical
examiner’s certificate.

  Part 4 of the Regulations makes various miscellaneous provisions regarding
the electronic sending or completion of documents (regulation 24) and the
availability of certificates and forms (regulation 25).

  Part 5 of the Regulations include a transitional provision (regulation 26)
which provides that these regulations apply to deaths occurring before the
coming into force of these Regulations where a medical certificate of death
has not been signed and a senior coroner is not under a duty to hold an
inquest into the death.

  Full impact assessments of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business, the voluntary sector and the public sector were prepared in
2018 and 2022 and are available at
https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/death-certification-reforms  and
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/health-and-care-act-2022-combined-
impact-assessments . An updated summary document has also been prepared and is
available from  https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/changes-to-the-
death-certification-process . Hard copies can be obtained by writing to the
Department of Health and Social Care, 39 Victoria Street, London, SW1H 0EU.

