Title: The Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-11-12
Description: These Regulations restate with modifications the provisions of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017 (“the 2017 Regulations”) (S.I. 2017/699), with the broad exception of Part 3 of the 2017 Regulations referred to below. The 2017 Regulations made arrangements for the registration and supervision by the FCA of data reporting service providers. They are retained EU law and are revoked by section 1(1) of, and Schedule 1 to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (c. 29).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/107

## The Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024

    Financial Services And Markets

  Made   29th January 2024

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Treasury make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 4(1), 83(1) and (2), 84(2) and 86(5) and (6) of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 .           A draft of these
Regulations was laid before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each
House of Parliament in accordance with sections 4(9), 83(3) and 84(3) of that
Act.

### Introductory Provisions

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on the day on which the revocation of the
Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017  by section 1(1) of, and Schedule 1
to, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 comes into force.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2017;           “ APA ” means a person authorised under regulation 9 to
provide the service of publishing trade reports on behalf of investment firms
pursuant to Article 20 or 21 of the markets in financial instruments
regulation;           “ ARM ” means a person authorised under regulation 9 to
provide the service of reporting details to the FCA of transactions for
financial instruments listed in Article 26(2) of the markets in financial
instruments regulation on behalf of investment firms;           “ authorised
person ” has the meaning given in section 31(2) of FSMA 2000 ;           “
credit institution ” has the meaning given in Article 2(1)(19) of the markets
in financial instruments regulation;           “ CTP ” means a person
authorised under regulation 9 to provide the service of collecting trade
reports for financial instruments listed in Article 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 20 or 21
of the markets in financial instruments regulation from, as applicable, UK
regulated markets, UK multilateral trading facilities, UK organised trading
facilities and APAs and consolidating them into a continuous electronic live
data stream providing price and volume data per financial instrument;
“ CTP service ” means a service described in the definition of a CTP;
“ data reporting service ” means—         the service of publishing trade
reports on behalf of investment firms pursuant to Article 20 or 21 of the
markets in financial instruments regulation;           the service of
reporting details to the FCA of transactions for financial instruments listed
in Article 26(2) of the markets in financial instruments regulation on behalf
of investment firms; or           a CTP service;                 “ data
reporting service provider ” means an APA, an ARM or a CTP;           “ data
reporting service rules ” means any rules made by the FCA under section 300H
of FSMA 2000  in relation to providing a data reporting service, as those
rules have effect from time to time;           “ direction to tender ” has the
meaning given in regulation 6(1);           “ established in the United
Kingdom ” means constituted under the law of a part of the United Kingdom with
a head office, and if there is a registered office, that office, in the United
Kingdom;           “ financial instrument ” means an instrument specified in
Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated
Activities) Order 2001 ;           “ investment firm ” has the meaning given
in Article 2(1A) of the markets in financial instruments regulation;
“ management body ” in relation to a relevant person means—         the board
of directors, or if there is no such board, the equivalent body responsible
for the management of the relevant person; and           any person who
effectively directs the business of the relevant person;                 “ the
markets in financial instruments directive ” means  Directive 2014/65/EU  of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in
financial instruments (recast) ;           “ the markets in financial
instruments regulation ” means  Regulation (EU) No  600/2014  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial
instruments ;           “ UK multilateral trading facility ” has the meaning
given in Article 2(1)(14A) of the markets in financial instruments regulation;
“ UK organised trading facility ” has the meaning given in Article 2(1)(15A)
of the markets in financial instruments regulation;           “overseas
clearing house” and “overseas investment exchange” have the meanings given in
section 313(1) of FSMA 2000 ;           “ preferred bidder ” has the meaning
given in regulation 6(3)(b);           “ recognised body ” has the meaning
given in section 313(1) of FSMA 2000, but does not include—         an
overseas investment exchange, or           an overseas clearing house;
“ recognised clearing house ” has the meaning given in section 285(1)(b) of
FSMA 2000  but does not include an overseas clearing house;           “
recognised CSD ” means a legal person established in the United Kingdom who is
authorised by the Bank of England for the purposes of Article 16 of
Regulation (EU) No  909/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on
central securities depositories ;           “ recognised investment exchange ”
has the meaning given in section 285(1)(a) of FSMA 2000, but does not include
an overseas investment exchange;           “ recognition order ” has the
meaning given in section 313(1) of FSMA 2000;           “ register ” means the
register maintained by the FCA under regulation 4;           “ UK regulated
market ” has the meaning given in Article 2(1)(13A) of the markets in
financial instruments regulation;           “ relevant person ” means—
a data reporting service provider,           an authorised person who is not a
data reporting service provider, or           a recognised body which is not a
data reporting service provider;                 “ senior management ” means
natural persons who exercise executive functions within an investment firm, a
market operator (as defined in Article 2(1)(10) of the markets in financial
instruments regulation) or a data reporting service provider and who are
responsible, and accountable to the management body, for the day-to-day
management of the entity, including for the implementation of the policies
concerning the distribution of services and products to clients by the firm
and its personnel;           “ tender contract ” has the meaning given in
regulation 6(3)(a);           “ the Tribunal ” means the Upper Tribunal.

2.2

In this regulation, a “ person authorised under regulation 9 ” includes a
person whose compliance with these Regulations has been verified by the FCA
under regulation 7.

2.3

In these Regulations, a reference to an Article of the markets in financial
instruments regulations includes a reference to any assimilated law made under
that Article.

2.4

In Part 3, any reference to a requirement imposed by or under these
Regulations includes a reference to a requirement imposed on a person to whom
these Regulations apply under—

2.4.a

any assimilated law made under the markets in financial instruments directive
or the markets in financial instruments regulation;

2.4.b

the markets in financial instruments regulation; or

2.4.c

data reporting service rules.

### Authorisation of Data Reporting Services

#### Prohibition on the provision of a data reporting service

3

3.1

A person must not provide a data reporting service in the United Kingdom as a
regular occupation or business unless the person is—

3.1.a

acting in accordance with an authorisation to provide that data reporting
service granted under these Regulations;

3.1.b

an investment firm which is operating a UK multilateral trading facility or a
UK organised trading facility where the FCA has verified under these
Regulations that the firm complies with these Regulations in respect of the
data reporting service concerned;

3.1.c

a credit institution which is operating a UK multilateral trading facility or
a UK organised trading facility where the FCA has verified under these
Regulations that the institution complies with these Regulations in respect of
the data reporting service concerned; or

3.1.d

a recognised investment exchange operating a trading venue where the FCA has
verified under these Regulations that the exchange complies with these
Regulations in respect of the data reporting service concerned.

3.2

A person who breaches a prohibition imposed by paragraph (1) is to be taken to
have contravened a requirement imposed on it under these Regulations.

3.3

In this regulation, “ trading venue ” has the meaning given in Article
2(1)(16) of the markets in financial instruments regulation.

#### Register of data reporting service providers

4

4.1

The FCA must maintain a register of all persons—

4.1.a

it has authorised to provide a data reporting service under these Regulations,
or

4.1.b

whose compliance with these Regulations it has verified in accordance with
regulation 7.

4.2

The FCA must—

4.2.a

publish the register online; and

4.2.b

ensure that the register contains information on the services which persons on
the register are authorised to provide including, where a tender contract to
provide a CTP service is awarded, details of—

4.2.b.i

the service to which the tender contract applies, and

4.2.b.ii

the term of the tender contract and, where applicable, any extension to that
term.

#### Application for authorisation to provide a data reporting service

5

5.1

An application for authorisation to provide a data reporting service must be
made to the FCA.

5.2

An application made under paragraph (1) must be—

5.2.a

made in such manner as the FCA may direct; and

5.2.b

contain, or be accompanied by, all the information required to demonstrate, in
respect of the data reporting service the applicant wishes to provide, that
the applicant meets the conditions for authorisation to provide a data
reporting service under regulation 8.

5.3

At any time after receiving an application and before determining it the FCA
may require the applicant to provide it with such further information as it
reasonably considers necessary to enable it to determine the application.

5.4

The FCA may give different directions, and may impose different requirements,
in relation to different applications or categories of application.

#### Direction to tender

6

6.1

The FCA may give a direction that a tender is to take place in order to select
a person to provide a CTP service (a “direction to tender”).

6.2

A direction to tender must specify—

6.2.a

the steps to be taken by prospective bidders wishing to participate in the
tender, and

6.2.b

the nature of the CTP service to which the tender applies, by reference to the
description of financial instrument for which trade reports are to be
collected and, where applicable, the relevant class of assets within that
financial instrument.

6.3

The FCA must make a determination as to whether—

6.3.a

a bidder is to be awarded a contract to provide the CTP service to which the
tender applies (a “tender contract”), or

6.3.b

where a bidder is not authorised or verified to provide the CTP service
concerned, the bidder is a person to whom the FCA proposes to award a tender
contract subject to that person being authorised or verified (a “preferred
bidder”).

6.4

The maximum term for which the tender contract may be awarded by the FCA
following a direction to tender (“the initial tender term”) is a period of
five years beginning on such day as the FCA may determine.

6.5

The initial tender term may be extended by a period of no more than two years
where—

6.5.a

the FCA intends to give a direction to tender in respect of the CTP service
concerned and—

6.5.a.i

significant changes to the arrangements for the selection of a person to
provide the service, or to the obligations associated with the provision of
the service, are anticipated by the FCA which would not otherwise be in effect
before the commencement of the tender, or

6.5.a.ii

following consultation with prospective bidders, the FCA cannot identify any
likely participants in the tender other than the incumbent to whom the tender
contract was awarded; or

6.5.b

following a direction to tender, a preferred bidder is not authorised or
verified to provide the CTP service concerned.

6.6

For the duration of the period during which a tender contract is in effect
(including any period during which the tender contract is extended) no person
other than a person who has been awarded a contract to provide the CTP service
concerned may provide that service.

6.7

A person who breaches a prohibition imposed by paragraph (6) is to be taken to
have contravened a requirement imposed on it under these Regulations.

6.8

In this regulation, reference to a person “ authorised or verified ” means a
person who is authorised under regulation 9 to provide the CTP service to
which the tender applies or a person whose compliance with these Regulations
in connection with the provision of that service has been verified by the FCA
under regulation 7.

#### Verification of compliance

7

7.1

Regulations 5, 8 and 9(1) to (5) apply to an application to the FCA for
verification of compliance with these Regulations, as those regulations apply
to an application for authorisation to provide a data reporting service.

7.2

If the FCA verifies that an investment firm, credit institution or recognised
investment exchange complies with these Regulations, it must give the
applicant notice of its decision specifying—

7.2.a

the data reporting services to which the verification relates; and

7.2.b

any restrictions imposed under regulation 9(5) (as applied by this
regulation).

7.3

The notice must state the date on which the verification takes effect.

7.4

The FCA must give the applicant a warning notice if it proposes to—

7.4.a

impose a restriction on the applicant; or

7.4.b

refuse an application.

7.5

The FCA must, having considered any representations made in response to the
warning notice—

7.5.a

if it grants the verification without imposing restrictions, give the
applicant notice of its decision complying with paragraphs (2) and (3);

7.5.b

if it grants the verification subject to the imposition of restrictions on the
applicant, give the applicant a decision notice; or

7.5.c

if it refuses the application, give the applicant a decision notice.

7.6

The applicant may refer the matter to the Tribunal if the FCA—

7.6.a

grants the application subject to the imposition of restrictions on the
applicant; or

7.6.b

refuses the application.

7.7

Regulations 10, 11(1) to (6) and 13 apply to a verification under paragraph
(2) as they apply to an authorisation to provide a data reporting service.

#### Conditions for authorisation to provide a data reporting service

8

8.1

The FCA may only grant an application for authorisation to provide a data
reporting service if—

8.1.a

the applicant has complied with all the directions and requirements under
regulation 5;

8.1.b

where a direction to tender applies in respect of the data reporting service
concerned, the applicant is a preferred bidder;

8.1.c

the applicant—

8.1.c.i

is established in the United Kingdom, or

8.1.c.ii

is a person not established in the United Kingdom who—

8.1.c.ii.aa

is applying to provide a service described in the definition of an APA or an
ARM, and

8.1.c.ii.bb

has a branch in the United Kingdom;

8.1.d

the FCA is satisfied that the applicant complies with all the requirements
imposed by or under—

8.1.d.i

these Regulations,

8.1.d.ii

data reporting service rules,

8.1.d.iii

the markets in financial instruments regulation,

8.1.d.iv

the assimilated law made under the markets in financial instruments directive
or the markets in financial instruments regulation; and

8.1.e

the FCA is satisfied that the persons who effectively direct the business of
the applicant are of good repute.

8.2

In this regulation, “ branch ” means a place of business other than the head
office or registered office which—

8.2.a

is part of the applicant,

8.2.b

has no legal personality, and

8.2.c

provides a data reporting service.

#### Determination of an application for authorisation to provide a data reporting service

9

9.1

The FCA must determine an application for an authorisation to provide a data
reporting service before the end of the period of six months beginning with
the date on which it received the completed application.

9.2

The FCA may determine an incomplete application if it considers it is
appropriate to do so.

9.3

An applicant may withdraw its application, by giving the FCA notice, at any
time before the FCA determines it.

9.4

The FCA may grant authorisation to carry out the data reporting services to
which the application relates or such of them as may be specified in the
authorisation.

9.5

The FCA may grant authorisation subject to the imposition of such restrictions
on the applicant as it considers appropriate.

9.6

If the FCA grants an application for authorisation, it must give the applicant
notice of its decision specifying—

9.6.a

which data reporting services the applicant has been granted authorisation to
provide; and

9.6.b

any restrictions imposed under paragraph (5).

9.7

The notice must state the date on which the authorisation takes effect.

9.8

The FCA must give the applicant a warning notice if it proposes to—

9.8.a

impose a restriction on the applicant, or

9.8.b

refuse an application.

9.9

The FCA must, having considered any representations made in response to the
warning notice—

9.9.a

if it grants authorisation without imposing restrictions, give the applicant
notice of its decision complying with paragraphs (6) and (7),

9.9.b

if it grants authorisation subject to the imposition of restrictions on the
applicant, give the applicant a decision notice, or

9.9.c

if it refuses the application, give the applicant a decision notice.

9.10

The applicant may refer the matter to the Tribunal if the FCA—

9.10.a

grants authorisation subject to the imposition of restrictions on the
applicant; or

9.10.b

refuses the application.

#### Cancellation of an authorisation to provide a data reporting service

10

10.1

The FCA may cancel a person’s authorisation to provide a data reporting
service where—

10.1.a

the person requests, or consents to, the cancellation of the authorisation;

10.1.b

in the case of an authorisation to provide a CTP service in respect of which a
direction to tender is given, the person is not awarded the tender contract;

10.1.c

the person has not provided the data reporting service which the person is
authorised to provide for the preceding six months;

10.1.d

the person has obtained the authorisation through false statements or other
irregular means;

10.1.e

the person no longer meets the conditions under which the authorisation was
granted;

10.1.f

the FCA is not satisfied the persons who effectively direct the business of
the person are of good repute;

10.1.g

the person has seriously and systematically infringed requirements imposed by
or under—

10.1.g.i

these Regulations,

10.1.g.ii

data reporting service rules,

10.1.g.iii

the markets in financial instruments regulation, or

10.1.g.iv

any assimilated law made under the markets in financial instruments directive
or the markets in financial instruments regulation.

10.2

A request made under paragraph (1)(a) must be made in such manner as the FCA
may direct.

10.3

The FCA may refuse a request under paragraph (1)(a).

10.4

The FCA must give a person a warning notice where it proposes to—

10.4.a

cancel a person’s authorisation, other than at the person’s request; or

10.4.b

refuse a request under paragraph (1)(a).

10.5

The FCA must, having considered any representations made in response to the
warning notice—

10.5.a

give the person notice of its decision if it decides—

10.5.a.i

not to cancel the authorisation, or

10.5.a.ii

to approve the request under paragraph (1)(a); or

10.5.b

give the person a decision notice if it decides—

10.5.b.i

to cancel the authorisation, or

10.5.b.ii

to refuse the request under paragraph (1)(a).

10.6

The person may refer the matter to the Tribunal if the FCA decides—

10.6.a

to cancel the authorisation, other than at the person’s request, or

10.6.b

to refuse the request under paragraph (1)(a).

10.7

Where the period for a reference to the Tribunal has expired without such
reference being made, the FCA must as soon as practicable update the register
accordingly.

#### Variation of an authorisation to provide data reporting services

11

11.1

A data reporting service provider may apply to the FCA to—

11.1.a

vary its authorisation to enable it to provide one or more additional data
reporting services,

11.1.b

remove one or more data reporting services, or

11.1.c

remove a restriction imposed on an applicant under regulation 9.

11.2

An application under paragraph (1) (“an application for a variation”) must be
made in such manner as the FCA may direct.

11.3

If the FCA proposes to refuse a person’s application for a variation it must
give the person a warning notice.

11.4

The FCA must, having considered any representations made in response to the
warning notice—

11.4.a

if it grants the person’s application for a variation, give the person notice
of its decision; or

11.4.b

if it refuses the person’s application for a variation, give the person a
decision notice.

11.5

If the FCA refuses a person’s application for a variation the person may refer
the matter to the Tribunal.

11.6

Where the period for a reference to the Tribunal has expired without a
reference being made, the FCA must as soon as practicable update the register
accordingly.

11.7

In this regulation, “ authorisation ” means an authorisation under regulation
9.

### Administration and enforcement

#### The FCA

##### Functions of the FCA

###### Consulting the Bank of England

12

The FCA must consult the Bank of England before—

12.a

authorising a recognised clearing house or a recognised CSD to provide a data
reporting service;

12.b

varying or cancelling a recognised clearing house’s or a recognised CSD’s
authorisation to provide a data reporting service;

12.c

imposing, varying or withdrawing a restriction on a recognised clearing
house’s or a recognised CSD’s authorisation to provide a data reporting
service under regulation 13;

12.d

publishing a statement under section 312E FSMA 2000  (public censure) as
applied by regulation 19 in relation to a contravention by a recognised
clearing house or a recognised CSD;

12.e

imposing a penalty under section 312F FSMA 2000  (financial penalties) as
applied by regulation 19 in relation to a contravention by a recognised
clearing house or a recognised CSD;

12.f

appointing a person to prepare a report under section 166(3)(b) of FSMA 2000
(reports by skilled persons) as applied by regulation 18 in relation to a
recognised clearing house or a recognised CSD;

12.g

exercising a power under section 166A(2) of FSMA 2000  (appointment of skilled
person to collect and update information) as applied by regulation 18 in
relation to a recognised clearing house or a recognised CSD;

12.h

appointing a person to carry out an investigation under section 167(1) of FSMA
2000  (appointment of persons to carry out general investigations) as applied
by regulation 18 in relation to a recognised clearing house or a recognised
CSD;

12.i

appointing a person to carry out an investigation under section 168(3) of FSMA
2000 (appointment of persons to carry out investigations in particular cases)
as applied by regulation 18 in relation to a recognised clearing house or a
recognised CSD;

12.j

appointing a person to carry out an investigation under section 169(1)(b) of
FSMA 2000  (investigations etc. in support of overseas regulator) as applied
by regulation 18 in relation to a recognised clearing house or a recognised
CSD.

###### Restrictions on authorisation to carry on data reporting services

13

13.1

If the FCA considers that a data reporting service provider (“ P ”) has
contravened a requirement imposed by or under these Regulations, it may
impose, for such period as it considers appropriate, such restrictions in
relation to the carrying on of data reporting services by P as it considers
appropriate.

13.2

If the FCA considers that there are objective and demonstrable grounds for
believing that a change or proposed change to the management of P poses a
threat to—

13.2.a

the sound and prudent management of P,

13.2.b

the adequate consideration of the interests of P’s clients, or

13.2.c

the integrity of the market,

it may impose, for such period as it considers appropriate, such restrictions
in relation to the carrying on of data reporting services by P as it considers
appropriate.

13.3

A restriction may, in particular, be imposed so as to require P to take, or
refrain from taking, specified action.

13.4

The FCA may—

13.4.a

withdraw a restriction; or

13.4.b

vary a restriction so as to reduce the period for which it has effect or
otherwise to limit its effect.

13.5

The power under this regulation may (but need not) be exercised so as to have
effect in relation to all the data reporting services that P carries on.

13.6

Where the FCA proposes to impose a restriction under this regulation, section
55Y of FSMA 2000  (exercise of own-initiative power: procedure) applies as if—

13.6.a

subsections (1A) and (1B) (applying section 55Y to an exercise of the FCA’s
power under section 55NA) were omitted;

13.6.b

each reference to either regulator’s own-initiative variation power or own-
initiative requirement power were a reference to the FCA’s power to impose a
restriction under this regulation;

13.6.c

each reference to the regulator were a reference to the FCA, and each
reference to either regulator were a reference to the FCA only;

13.6.d

each reference to an authorised person were a reference to P;

13.6.e

each reference to a variation of permission, or the imposition or variation of
a requirement, were a reference to a restriction imposed on an authorisation
granted under these Regulations to P; and

13.6.f

the reference in subsection (12) to section 391(8) were a reference to section
391(8) as applied by these Regulations.

###### Breach of the prohibition on the provision of a data reporting service

14

14.1

Unless paragraph (2) applies, a person who breaches a prohibition imposed by
regulation 3(1) is guilty of an offence.

14.2

This regulation does not apply to—

14.2.a

an authorised person;

14.2.b

a recognised body.

14.3

A person guilty of an offence under this regulation is liable—

14.3.a

on summary conviction—

14.3.a.i

in England and Wales, to a fine;

14.3.a.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum; or

14.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

#### Application of FSMA 2000 for the purposes of the Regulations

##### FCA’s general duties

15

15.1

Section 1B of FSMA 2000  (FCA’s general duties)—

15.1.a

applies with respect to the FCA’s discharging of its functions in relation to
persons on whom requirements are imposed by or under these Regulations, as it
applies to arrangements for the discharge of the FCA’s general functions under
that Act, with the modifications specified in paragraph (2);

15.1.b

in its application to the discharging by the FCA of its functions under
section 1B(6)(a) of that Act, has effect with the modifications specified in
paragraph (2).

15.2

For the purposes of the interpretation of section 1B(2) of FSMA 2000—

15.2.a

section 1F applies as if “relevant markets” included the market for data
reporting services;

15.2.b

section 1H(2) applies as if “ regulated financial services ” (for the purposes
of the interpretation of that term in section 1F) included services provided
by data reporting service providers.

##### Supervision, monitoring and enforcement

16

Section 1L of FSMA 2000  (supervision, monitoring and enforcement) applies
with respect to the supervision, monitoring and enforcement of persons on whom
requirements are imposed by or under these Regulations, as it applies to
arrangements for supervision, monitoring and enforcement of persons under that
Act as if—

16.a

subsection (1) were omitted;

16.b

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

16.b.2

The FCA must maintain arrangements designed to enable it to determine whether
persons in respect of whom requirements are imposed by or under the Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2024, within the meaning of regulation 2(4) of
those Regulations, are complying with them.

;

16.c

for subsection (3) there were substituted—

16.c.3

The FCA must also maintain arrangements for enforcing compliance with the
provisions of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024.

.

##### Application of Part 9 of FSMA 2000 (hearings and appeals)

17

17.1

Part 9 of FSMA 2000  (hearings and appeals) applies with respect to
proceedings pursuant to references to the Tribunal under these Regulations and
under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations (“relevant proceedings”) as it
applies with respect to proceedings pursuant to references to the Tribunal
under that Act, with the following modifications.

17.2

Section 133 of FSMA 2000 (proceedings before the Tribunal: general provision)
applies as if—

17.2.a

in subsection (1)—

17.2.a.i

“(whether made under this or any other Act)” were omitted;

17.2.a.ii

in paragraph (a) “or the PRA” were omitted;

17.2.a.iii

paragraphs (b) and (c) were omitted;

17.2.b

subsection 1A were omitted;

17.2.c

in subsection (2) “, (b) or (c)” were omitted;

17.2.d

in subsection (5) the reference to section 393(11) were a reference to section
393(11) as applied by these Regulations;

17.2.e

subsection (5A) were omitted;

17.2.f

for subsection (7A) there were substituted—

17.2.f.7A

A reference is a “ disciplinary reference ” for the purposes of this section
if it is in respect of either of the following decisions—

17.2.f.7A.a

a decision to publish a statement under section 312E as applied by regulation
19 of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024;

17.2.f.7A.b

a decision to impose a penalty under section 312F as applied by regulation 19
of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024.

.

17.3

Section 133A of FSMA 2000 (proceedings before Tribunal: decision and
supervisory notices, etc.) applies as if—

17.3.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

17.3.a.1

In determining in accordance with section 133(5) (as applied by the Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2024) a reference made as a result of a
decision notice given by the FCA, the Tribunal may not direct the FCA to take
action which it would not, under the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024
or this Act as applied by those Regulations, have had power to take when
giving the notice.

;

17.3.b

in subsections (4) and (5) “(whether made under this or any other Act)” were
omitted;

17.3.c

in subsection (5) “or the PRA” were omitted.

17.4

Section 133B of FSMA 2000 (offences) applies as if in subsection (1)—

17.4.a

in paragraph (a) “or the PRA” were omitted;

17.4.b

paragraphs (b) and (c) were omitted.

##### Application of Part 11 of FSMA 2000 (information gathering and investigations)

18

18.1

Part 11 of FSMA 2000  (information gathering and investigations)—

18.1.a

applies with respect to the discharge by the FCA of its functions under these
Regulations, as it applies with respect to the discharge by the FCA of its
functions under FSMA 2000, with the modifications specified in paragraphs (2)
to (18);

18.1.b

in its application to the discharge by the FCA of its functions under sections
165, 166 to 167 and 176, as those functions apply in respect of data reporting
service rules, has effect with the modifications specified in paragraphs
(2)(c) to (e), (3), (5) to (7) and (17).

18.2

Part 11 of FSMA 2000 applies as if—

18.2.a

each reference to that Act included a reference to these Regulations;

18.2.b

each reference to a section or Part of, or Schedule to, that Act were a
reference to that section, Part or Schedule as applied by these Regulations;

18.2.c

each reference to an authorised person were a reference to a data reporting
service provider;

18.2.d

each reference to the PRA were omitted;

18.2.e

each reference to a regulator were a reference to the FCA, and each reference
to either regulator, the regulator in question, the regulator exercising the
power, or each regulator were a reference to the FCA only.

18.3

Section 165 of FSMA 2000 (regulators’ power to require information: authorised
persons etc.) applies as if—

18.3.a

subsection (4)(b) were omitted;

18.3.b

in subsection (7)(a), after “a person”, there were inserted  “who provides, or
has provided, a service to an authorised person or to a relevant parent
undertaking of an authorised person, or” ;

18.3.c

subsections (7)(b) to (d), (8A), (11)(e), (12) and (13) were omitted.

18.4

Sections 165A (PRA’s power to require information: financial stability), 165B
(safeguards etc. in relation to exercise of power under section 165A) and 165C
(orders under section 165A(2)(d)) of FSMA 2000 do not apply.

18.5

Section 166 of FSMA 2000 (reports by skilled persons) applies as if—

18.5.a

in subsection (10) for “subsection (11), (12) or (13)” there were substituted
“subsection (12)” ;

18.5.b

subsection (11) were omitted;

18.5.c

in subsection (12) from “an FCA investment firm” to the end there were
substituted  “a data reporting service provider or to a relevant parent
undertaking of that service provider” ;

18.5.d

subsections (13) and (14) were omitted.

18.6

Section 166A of FSMA 2000 (appointment of skilled person to collect and update
information) applies as if—

18.6.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

18.6.a.1

This section applies if the FCA considers that a person has contravened a
requirement imposed by or under the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024,
within the meaning given in regulation 2(4) of those Regulations, to collect,
and keep up to date, information of a description specified in those
Regulations.

;

18.6.b

subsections (9A) and (10) were omitted.

18.7

Section 167 of FSMA 2000 (appointment of persons to carry out general
investigations) applies as if—

18.7.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

18.7.a.1

If it appears to the FCA that there is good reason for doing so, the FCA may
appoint one or more competent persons to conduct an investigation on its
behalf into—

18.7.a.1.a

the nature, conduct or state of the business of a person in respect of whom a
requirement is imposed by or under the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2024 within the meaning given in regulation 2(4) of these Regulations (“ a
person subject to the 2024 Regulations ”) or a person who provides a service
to that person or to a relevant parent undertaking of that person;

18.7.a.1.b

a particular aspect of that business;

18.7.a.1.c

the ownership or control of a person subject to the 2024 Regulations.

;

18.7.b

subsection (1A) and (2)(c) were omitted;

18.7.c

for subsection (4A) there were substituted—

18.7.c.4A

The power conferred by this section may be exercised in relation to a person
who has at any time been a person in respect of whom a requirement was imposed
by or under the 2017 Regulations or a person who has at any time been a person
described in subsection (1)(a) but only in relation to—

18.7.c.4A.a

business carried on when the person was a person in respect of whom a
requirement was imposed by or under the 2017 Regulations or a person described
in subsection (1)(a); or

18.7.c.4A.b

the ownership or control of the person at such a time.

;

18.7.d

subsections (4B), (5A) and (6) were omitted.

18.8

Section 168 of FSMA 2000 (appointment of persons to carry out investigations
in particular cases) applies as if—

18.8.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

18.8.a.1

Subsection (3) applies if it appears to the FCA that there are circumstances
suggesting that—

18.8.a.1.a

a relevant person may have contravened a requirement imposed by or under the
Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024, within the meaning given in
regulation 2(4) of those Regulations;

18.8.a.1.b

a member of the management body of a relevant person or another member of the
senior management of a relevant person may be responsible for the
contravention of a requirement imposed by or under those Regulations; or

18.8.a.1.c

a person may be guilty of an offence under those Regulations or under this Act
as applied by those Regulations.

;

18.8.b

subsection (2) were omitted;

18.8.c

in subsection (3) for “investigating authority” there were substituted  “FCA”
;

18.8.d

subsections (4) and (5) were omitted;

18.8.e

for subsection (6) there were substituted—

18.8.e.6

“Management body” “relevant person” and “senior management” have the meanings
given in regulation 2(1) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024.

.

18.9

Section 169 of FSMA 2000 (investigations etc. in support of overseas
regulator) applies as if—

18.9.a

subsection (2A) were omitted;

18.9.b

for subsection (13) there were substituted—

18.9.b.13

“ Overseas regulator ” means an authority in a country or territory outside
the United Kingdom which has functions corresponding to those of the FCA under
the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024.

.

18.10

Section 169A of FSMA 2000 (support of overseas regulator with respect to
financial stability) does not apply.

18.11

Section 170 of FSMA 2000 (investigations: general) applies as if—

18.11.a

each reference to the investigating authority were a reference to the FCA;

18.11.b

in subsection (1) “or (5)” were omitted;

18.11.c

for subsection (3) there were substituted—

18.11.c.3

Subsections (2) and (9) do not apply if the investigator is appointed as a
result of section 168(1) and the FCA believes that the notice required by
subsection (2) or (9) would be likely to result in the investigation being
frustrated.

;

18.11.d

subsection (10) were omitted.

18.12

Section 171 of FSMA 2000 (powers of persons appointed under section 167)
applies as if—

18.12.a

for subsection (1A)(c) and (d) there were substituted—

18.12.a.c

where the person under investigation is a data reporting service provider, a
person who provides, or has provided, a service to that person or to a
relevant parent undertaking of that person;

18.12.a.d

where the person under investigation is a relevant parent undertaking of a
data reporting service provider, a person who provides, or has provided, a
service to the parent undertaking or to that person;

;

18.12.b

subsections (3A) and (7) were omitted.

18.13

Section 172 of FSMA 2000 (additional power of persons appointed as a result of
section 168(1) or (4)) applies as if in the heading and in subsection (4) “or
(4)” were omitted.

18.14

Section 173 of FSMA 2000 (powers of persons appointed as a result of section
168(2)) does not apply.

18.15

Section 174 of FSMA 2000 (admissibility of statements made to investigators)
applies as if—

18.15.a

in subsection (2) “or in proceedings in relation to action to be taken against
that person under section 123 to which this subsection applies” were omitted;

18.15.b

subsection (3A) were omitted;

18.15.c

in subsection (4) the words from “or (5),” to the end were omitted;

18.15.d

in subsection (5) “, 173” were omitted.

18.16

Section 175 of FSMA 2000 (information and documents: supplemental provisions)
applies as if —

18.16.a

in subsection (5)(d) for “investigating authority” there were substituted
“FCA” ;

18.16.b

subsection (8) were omitted.

18.17

Section 176 of FSMA 2000 (entry of premises under warrant) applies as if—

18.17.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

18.17.a.1

A justice of the peace may issue a warrant under this section if satisfied on
information on oath given by or on behalf of the FCA or an investigator that
there are reasonable grounds for believing that the first, second or third set
of conditions is satisfied.

18.17.b

in subsection (3A)—

18.17.b.i

paragraph (b) were omitted;

18.17.b.ii

for paragraphs (c) and (d) there were substituted—

18.17.b.ii.c

a relevant parent undertaking of a data reporting service provider;

18.17.b.ii.d

a person who provides a service to such a data reporting service provider or
to a relevant parent undertaking of that service provider.

;

18.17.c

in subsection (10) “or (5)” were omitted;

18.17.d

in subsection (11)—

18.17.d.i

in paragraph (a) “87C, 87J,” and “,165A, 169A” were omitted;

18.17.d.ii

in paragraph (b) “, 173” were omitted.

18.18

Section 177A of FSMA 2000 (interpretation of part 11) applies as if—

18.18.a

for the definition of “FCA investment firm” there were substituted—

      “ data reporting service provider ” has the meaning given in regulation
2(1) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024;

;

18.18.b

in the definition of “relevant parent undertaking”, for “an FCA investment
firm” there were substituted  “a data reporting service provider” .

##### Disciplinary measures

19

19.1

Chapter 3B of Part 18 of FSMA 2000  (disciplinary measures in respect of
recognised bodies)—

19.1.a

applies with respect to the discharge by the FCA of its functions under these
Regulations, as it applies with respect to the discharge by the FCA of its
functions under FSMA 2000, with the modifications specified in paragraphs (2)
to (9);

19.1.b

in its application to the discharge by the FCA of its functions under section
312E to 312H of FSMA 2000, as those functions apply in relation to data
reporting service rules, has effect with the modifications specified in
paragraphs (3) to (9).

19.2

Chapter 3B of Part 18 of FSMA 2000 applies as if—

19.2.a

each reference to a section or Part of FSMA 2000 were a reference to that
section or Part as applied by these Regulations;

19.2.b

each reference to an appropriate regulator or each appropriate regulator were
a reference to the FCA;

19.2.c

references to a recognised investment exchange were omitted;

19.2.d

each reference to a relevant requirement were a reference to a requirement
which is imposed by or under these Regulations, or FSMA 2000 as applied by
these Regulations.

19.3

Section 312E of FSMA 2000 (public censure) applies as if—

19.3.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

19.3.a.1

If the FCA considers that—

19.3.a.1.a

a relevant person has contravened a relevant requirement, or

19.3.a.1.b

a member of the management body, or another member of the senior management,
of a relevant person is responsible for the contravention of a relevant
requirement by the relevant person,

it may publish a statement to that effect.

;

19.3.b

in subsection (2) paragraphs (b) to (d) were omitted;

19.3.c

subsection (3) were omitted;

19.3.d

in subsection (4) from “has the meaning” to the end, there were substituted
“, “ management body ”, “ relevant person ” and “ senior management ” have the
meanings given by regulation 2(1) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2024.” .

19.4

Section 312F of FSMA 2000 (financial penalties) applies as though for
subsection (1) there were substituted—

19.4.1

If the FCA considers that a relevant person has contravened a relevant
requirement, it may impose a penalty of such amount as it considers
appropriate on—

19.4.1.a

the relevant person;

19.4.1.b

a member of the management body of the relevant person if the FCA considers
the member is responsible for the contravention;

19.4.1.c

another member of the senior management of the relevant person if the FCA
considers the member is responsible for the contravention.

.

19.5

Section 312G of FSMA 2000 (proposal to take disciplinary measures) applies as
if for subsection (1) there were substituted—

19.5.1

If the FCA proposes to impose a sanction in respect of any person under
section 312E or 312F (as applied by the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2024) it must give the person a warning notice.

.

19.6

Section 312H of FSMA 2000 (decision notice) applies as if—

19.6.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

19.6.a.1

If the FCA decides to impose a sanction in respect of any person under section
312E or 312F (as applied by the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024) it
must give the person a decision notice.

;

19.6.b

subsection (3A) were omitted;

19.6.c

for subsection (4) there were substituted—

19.6.c.4

If the FCA decides to impose a sanction in respect of any person under section
312E or 312F (as applied by the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024) the
person may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

.

19.7

Section 312J of FSMA 2000 (statement of policy) applies as if—

19.7.a

in subsection (1)—

19.7.a.i

the references to section 312FA were omitted from paragraph (a);

19.7.a.ii

paragraph (c) were omitted;

19.7.b

in subsection (5) the reference to section 312FA were omitted.

##### Information given by an auditor

20

Sections 342 (information given by auditor or actuary to a regulator), 343
(information given by auditor or actuary to a regulator: person with close
links) and 344 (duty of auditor or actuary resigning etc. to give notice) of
FSMA 2000  apply with respect to the auditor of a data reporting service
provider as if—

20.a

each reference to an authorised person were a reference to a data reporting
service provider;

20.b

each reference to a regulator or to “the appropriate regulator” were a
reference to the FCA;

20.c

references to a recognised investment exchange and to an actuary were omitted;

20.d

sections 342(2), 343(2) and 344(4) were omitted.

##### Restrictions on disclosure of information

21

Sections 348 (restrictions on disclosure of confidential information by FCA,
PRA etc.), 349 (exceptions from section 348) and 352 (offences) of FSMA 2000
apply with respect to information received under these Regulations and under
FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations as they apply with respect to
information received under FSMA 2000 as if—

21.a

each reference to that Act included a reference to these Regulations;

21.b

each reference to a section or Part of that Act were a reference to that
section or Part as applied by these Regulations;

21.c

each reference to the PRA were omitted;

21.d

in section 348, each reference to the Secretary of State were omitted;

21.e

in section 348, subsections (2A), (5)(aa), (da), (6)(a) and (8) were omitted;

21.f

in section 352—

21.f.i

in subsection (1) “or 350(5)” were omitted;

21.f.ii

subsection (4) were omitted;

21.f.iii

in subsection (5) “or (4)” were omitted;

21.f.iv

in subsection (6)(a) “or that it had been disclosed in accordance with section
350” were omitted.

##### Application of Part 25 of FSMA 2000 (injunctions and restitution)

22

22.1

Part 25 of FSMA 2000  (injunctions and restitution) applies for the purposes
of these Regulations and FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations, with the
following modifications.

22.2

Part 25 FSMA 2000 applies as if—

22.2.a

each reference to that Act included a reference to these Regulations;

22.2.b

each reference to a section of that Act were a reference to that section as
applied by these Regulations;

22.2.c

each reference to a regulator, the regulator concerned or the appropriate
regulator were a reference to the FCA;

22.2.d

references to the Secretary of State were omitted;

22.2.e

each reference to a relevant requirement were a reference to a requirement
which is imposed by or under these Regulations, or that Act as applied by
these Regulations.

22.3

Section 380 of FSMA 2000 applies as if subsections (6) to (12) were omitted.

22.4

Section 381 of FSMA 2000 (injunctions in case of market abuse) does not apply.

22.5

Section 382 of FSMA 2000 (restitution orders) applies as if subsections (9) to
(15) were omitted.

22.6

Section 383 of FSMA 2000 (restitution orders in case of market abuse) does not
apply.

22.7

Section 384 of FSMA 2000 (power of FCA or PRA to require restitution) applies
as if—

22.7.a

in subsection (1)—

22.7.a.i

the reference to an authorised person were a reference to a data reporting
service provider; and

22.7.a.ii

the reference to a recognised investment exchange were omitted;

22.7.b

subsections (2) and (3) and references to those subsections were omitted;

22.7.c

subsections (7) to (13) were omitted.

##### Application of Part 26 of FSMA 2000 (notices)

23

23.1

Part 26 of FSMA 2000  (notices) applies with respect to the giving of notices
under these Regulations and under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations as
it applies with respect to the giving of notices under FSMA 2000, with the
following modifications.

23.2

Part 26 of FSMA 2000 applies as if—

23.2.a

each reference to that Act included a reference to these Regulations;

23.2.b

each reference to a section of that Act were a reference to that section as
applied by these Regulations;

23.2.c

each reference to a regulator or to the regulator concerned were a reference
to the FCA;

23.2.d

references to the PRA were omitted.

23.3

Section 387 of FSMA 2000 (warning notices) applies as if subsections (1A) and
(3A) were omitted.

23.4

Section 388 of FSMA 2000 (decision notices) applies as if subsections (1A) and
(2) were omitted.

23.5

Section 391 of FSMA 2000 (publication) applies as if—

23.5.a

in subsection (1) the reference to a warning notice falling within subsection
(1ZB) were to a warning notice given under section 312G as applied by these
Regulations;

23.5.b

in subsection (1ZA) the reference to a warning notice not falling within
subsection (1ZB) were to a warning notice given under any other provision of
these Regulations or under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations;

23.5.c

subsection (1ZB) were omitted;

23.5.d

in subsection (4A) the reference to sections 391A, 391B, 391C, 391E and 391F
were omitted;

23.5.e

subsection (5A) were omitted;

23.5.f

in subsection (6) for “consumers” there were substituted  “persons to whom
data reporting services are provided” ;

23.5.g

subsections (6A), (8A), (8AA), (8B), (8BA), (8C), (8D), (8E) and (8G) were
omitted;

23.5.h

for subsection (11) there were substituted—

23.5.h.11

Section 425A  (Consumers regulated activities etc carried on by authorised
persons) applies for the purposes of this section as if—

23.5.h.11.a

subsection (2)(c) and (d) were omitted;

23.5.h.11.b

for subsection (3) there were substituted—

23.5.h.11.b.3

The services within this subsection are data reporting services within the
meaning of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024.

;

23.5.h.c

subsection (7) were omitted.

.

23.6

Sections 391A (publication: special provisions relating to capital
requirements), 391B (publication: special provisions relating to transparency
obligations), 391C (publication: special provision relating to UCITS), 391E
(publication: special provision relating to insurance distribution) and 391F
(publication: special provisions relating to the prospectus regulation) of
FSMA 2000 do not apply.

23.7

Section 391D (publication: special provisions relating to markets in financial
instruments) applies as if, in subsections (4)(c) and (8)(a), for “financial
markets” there were substituted  “market for data reporting services” .

23.8

Section 392 of FSMA 2000 (application of sections 393 and 394) applies as if
for paragraphs (a) and (b) there were substituted—

23.8.a

a warning notice given in accordance with—

23.8.a.i

regulation 10(4)(a) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024 (including
that provision as applied by regulation 7 of those Regulations);

23.8.a.ii

section 312G as applied by those Regulations; or

23.8.a.iii

section 385 as applied by those Regulations;

23.8.b

a decision notice given in accordance with—

23.8.b.i

regulation 10(5)(b)(i) of those Regulations (including that provision as
applied by regulation 7);

23.8.b.ii

section 312G as applied by those Regulations; or

23.8.b.iii

section 386 as applied by those Regulations;

.

23.9

Section 395 of FSMA 2000 (the FCA’s and PRA’s procedures) applies as if—

23.9.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

23.9.a.1

The FCA must determine the procedure that it proposes to follow in relation to
a decision which gives rise to an obligation for it to give—

23.9.a.1.a

a supervisory notice, warning notice or decision notice; or

23.9.a.1.b

a decision under section 391(1)(c) to publish information about the matter to
which a warning notice relates.

;

23.9.b

in subsection (2)(a) for “any of the paragraphs (a) to (c)” there were
substituted  “paragraph (a)” ;

23.9.c

in subsection (2)(b) for “(d)” there were substituted  “(b)” ;

23.9.d

in subsection 2(c)—

23.9.d.i

for “(d)” there were substituted  “(b)” ;

23.9.d.ii

for “(b) or (c)” there were substituted  “(a)” ;

23.9.e

subsection 3(b) and (4) were omitted;

23.9.f

in subsection (9) “other than a warning notice or decision notice relating to
a decision of the PRA that is required by a decision of the FCA of the kind
mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(ii)” were omitted;

23.9.g

subsection (9A) were omitted;

23.9.h

for subsection (13) there were substituted—

23.9.h.13

“ Supervisory notice ” means a notice given in accordance with section 55Y of
FSMA 2000 as applied by regulation 13 of the Data Reporting Services
Regulations 2024.

.

23.10

In paragraph (1), “ notices under these Regulations ” does not include a
notice under—

23.10.a

regulation 7(2) or (5)(a);

23.10.b

regulation 9(6)(a) or (9)(a);

23.10.c

regulation 10(5)(a) (including that provision as applied by regulation 7).

##### Application of Part 27 of FSMA 2000 (offences)

24

24.1

Part 27 of FSMA 2000  (offences) applies with respect to offences under these
Regulations and FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations as it applies with
respect to offences under FSMA 2000, with the following modifications.

24.2

Part 27 of FSMA 2000 applies as if—

24.2.a

each reference to that Act included a reference to these Regulations;

24.2.b

each reference to a section of that Act were a reference to that section as
applied by these Regulations;

24.2.c

references to the Secretary of State were omitted;

24.2.d

references to a regulator or the appropriate regulator were references to the
FCA.

24.3

Section 398 of FSMA 2000 (misleading FCA or PRA: residual cases) applies as if
—

24.3.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

24.3.a.1

A person who, in purported compliance with any requirement imposed by or under
the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024 within the meaning of regulation
2(4) of those Regulations, knowingly or recklessly gives information which is
false or misleading in a material particular to—

24.3.a.1.a

the FCA, or

24.3.a.1.b

another person, knowing that the information is to be provided to, or to be
used for the purposes of providing information to the FCA,

is guilty of an offence.

;

24.3.b

subsection (1A) were omitted;

24.3.c

in subsection (2) for “this Act” there were substituted  “FSMA 2000 as applied
by the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024” .

24.4

Section 399 of FSMA 2000 of FSMA 2000 (misleading the CMA) does not apply.

24.5

Section 400 of FSMA 2000 (offences by bodies corporate) applies as if
subsection (6A) were omitted.

24.6

Section 401 of FSMA 2000 (proceedings for offences) applies as if—

24.6.a

subsection 1(c) were omitted;

24.6.b

subsections (3A) to (3B) were omitted.

24.7

Section 402 of FSMA 2000 (power of FCA to institute proceedings for certain
other offences) does not apply.

24.8

Section 403(7) of FSMA 2000 (jurisdiction and procedure in respect of
offences) applies as if the words from “or an offence” to the end were
omitted.

##### Application of section 413 of FSMA 2000 (protected items)

25

Section 413 of FSMA 2000 (protected items) applies for the purposes of these
Regulations as it applies for the purposes of that Act.

##### Application of section 415AA of FSMA 2000 (application of powers to formerly authorised persons)

26

26.1

Section 415AA of FSMA 2000  (application of powers to formerly authorised
persons) applies for the purposes of these Regulations and FSMA 2000 as
applied by these Regulations as if—

26.1.a

each reference to an authorised person were a reference to a data reporting
service provider;

26.1.b

each reference to a section of that Act were a reference to that section as
applied by these Regulations;

26.1.c

for subsections (1)(b) and (c) there were substituted—

26.1.c.b

section 312E (public censure);

26.1.c.c

section 312F (financial penalties)

;

26.1.d

in subsection (2) “, and in sections 207 to 209,” were omitted.

##### FCA: penalties, fees and exemption from liability in damages

27

27.1

Paragraphs 19 to 23 (penalties and fees) and 25 (exemption from liability in
damages) of Schedule 1ZA to FSMA 2000  apply with respect to the discharge by
the FCA of its functions under these Regulations as they apply with respect to
the discharge by it of its functions under FSMA 2000, with the following
modifications.

27.2

Those paragraphs apply as if—

27.2.a

each reference to penalties imposed under that Act included a reference to
penalties imposed under these Regulations;

27.2.b

each reference to a section or Part of that Act included a reference to that
section or Part as applied by these Regulations;

27.2.c

each reference to the functions of the FCA included a reference to its
functions under these Regulations.

27.3

Paragraph 20 applies as if references to the FCA’s enforcement powers
included—

27.3.a

its powers under these Regulations and under Part 25 of FSMA 2000 as applied
by these Regulations;

27.3.b

its powers in relation to investigation of offences under these Regulations or
under FSMA 2000 as applied by these Regulations;

27.3.c

its powers in England and Wales or Northern Ireland in relation to the
prosecution of offences under these Regulations or under FSMA 2000 as applied
by these Regulations.

27.4

Paragraph 21 applies as if regulated persons included data reporting service
providers.

27.5

Paragraph 23 applies as if references to qualifying functions included
references to the functions of the FCA under these Regulations and under FSMA
2000 as applied by these Regulations.

27.6

Paragraph 25 applies as if sub-paragraph (1A) were omitted.

#### Application of secondary legislation for the purposes of the Regulations

##### Service of notices

28

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Service of Notices) Regulations
2001  (“ Notice Regulations ”) apply in respect of any notice or document to
be given by the FCA under these Regulations, or under FSMA 2000 as applied by
these Regulations, as if—

28.a

that notice or document were “a relevant document” under the Notice
Regulations;

28.b

each reference to that Act included a reference to these Regulations and to
that Act as applied by these Regulations;

28.c

each reference to a section of that Act were a reference to that section as
applied by these Regulations.

##### Disclosure of confidential information

29

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Disclosure of Confidential
Information) Regulations 2001  apply for the purposes of section 349 of FSMA
2000 (exceptions from section 348) as applied by regulation 21.

##### Communications by auditors

30

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Communications by Auditors)
Regulations 2001  apply with respect to the auditor of a data reporting
service provider as if—

30.a

each reference to an authorised person were a reference to a data reporting
service provider;

30.b

each reference to a recognised body were omitted;

30.c

each reference to the PRA were omitted;

30.d

each reference to the Bank of England were omitted;

30.e

in regulation 1(2) (citation, commencement and interpretation) “ relevant
requirement ” means a requirement which is imposed by or under these
Regulations;

30.f

in regulation 2(2)(a)(ii) (circumstances in which an auditor is to
communicate) the reference to functions were a reference to the FCA’s
functions under these Regulations and under FSMA 2000 as applied by these
Regulations;

30.g

in regulation 2(2)(b) the reference to threshold conditions were a reference
to the conditions in regulation 8 of these Regulations.

### Amendment of primary and secondary legislation

#### Amendment of FSMA 2000

31

In sections 300H(5) (rules relating to investment exchanges and data reporting
service providers) and 312E(4) (public censure) of FSMA 2000, for “Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/699 )” substitute  “Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2024” .

#### Amendment of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Recognition requirements for Investment Exchanges, Clearing Houses and Central Securities Depositaries) Regulations 2001

32

Omit paragraph 9I(a) and (c) of the Schedule to the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Recognition requirements for Investment Exchanges, Clearing
Houses and Central Securities Depositaries) Regulations 2001  (provision of
data reporting services).

#### Amendment of the Financial Services Act 2012 (Relevant Functions in relation to Complaints Scheme) Order 2014

33

For article 2(f) of the Financial Services Act 2012 (Relevant Functions in
relation to Complaints Scheme) Order 2014  (relevant functions of the FCA),
substitute—

33.f

its functions under the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024.

.

#### Amendment of the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order 2014

34

In the Schedule to the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order
2014  (prescribed persons), in the entry for the “Financial Conduct
Authority”, for paragraph (m)(ii) substitute—

34.ii

the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024

.

#### Amendment of the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order (Northern Ireland) 1999

35

In the Schedule to the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order
(Northern Ireland) 1999  (prescribed persons), in the entry for the “Financial
Conduct Authority”, for paragraph (m)(ii) substitute—

35.ii

the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024

.

### Amendment of assimilated legislation

#### Amendment of the markets in financial instruments regulation

36

In the markets in financial instruments regulation—

36.a

in Article 2(1) of Title 1 (definitions)—

36.a.i

in sub-paragraph (18), for “, or by regulation 17 of the Data Reporting
Services Regulations 2017” substitute  “or, for the purposes of the Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2024, the FCA” ;

36.a.ii

in sub-paragraphs (34) to (36), for “under regulation 10 or 12A of the Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2017” in each place it occurs, substitute
“under regulation 9 of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024” ;

36.b

in Chapter 1 of Title 2, in Article 7(2) (authorisation of deferred
publication), for “regulation 14 of the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2017” substitute  “data reporting service rules (within the meaning of
regulation 2(1) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024)” ;

36.c

in Chapter 2 of Title 2, in Article 11(4) (authorisation of deferred
publication), for “regulation 14 of the Data Reporting Services Regulations
2017” substitute  “data reporting service rules (within the meaning of
regulation 2(1) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024)” ;

36.d

in Article 21(5) of Title 3 (post-trade disclosure by investment firms,
including systematic internalisers, in respect of bonds, structured finance
products, emission allowances and derivatives), for “regulation 14 of the Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2017” substitute  “data reporting service rules
(within the meaning of regulation 2(1) of the Data Reporting Services
Regulations 2024)” ;

36.e

in Article 26(7) of Title 4 (obligation to report transactions), for
“regulation 16(3)(d) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017”
substitute  “data reporting service rules (within the meaning of regulation
2(1) of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024)” .

#### Amendment of Commission Delegated 

37

In Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) 2017/565  of 25 April 2016
supplementing  Directive 2014/65/EU  of the European Parliament and of the
Council as regards organisational requirements and operating conditions for
investment firms and defined terms for the purposes of that Directive —

37.a

in Article A1(1)(b) (application) for “Data Reporting Services Regulations
2017” substitute  “Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024” ;

37.b

in Article 2(17)(c) (definitions), for “Data Reporting Services Regulations
2017” substitute  “Data Reporting Services Regulations 2024” ;

37.c

in Article 70(1) (prompt fair and expeditious execution of client orders and
publication of unexecuted client limit orders for shares traded on a trading
venue) for “Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017” substitute  “Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2024” .

### Transitional and saving provision

#### The register

38

38.1

The existing entries made on the register maintained by the FCA in accordance
with regulation 6 of the 2017 Regulations are to be treated on the coming into
force of these Regulations as having been entered on the register maintained
in accordance with regulation 4 of these Regulations and have effect as if
entered under these Regulations.

38.2

Any information concerning anything done in respect of the 2017 Regulations,
or anything to be done as though those Regulations remained in force, which—

38.2.a

would have been entered on the register maintained by the FCA in accordance
with the 2017 Regulations had those Regulations remained in force, and

38.2.b

has not been so entered on the coming into force of these Regulations

must be entered on the register in accordance with these Regulations.

#### Authorisation and verification under the 2017 Regulations

39

39.1

This regulation applies to an authorisation or verification which, immediately
before the coming into force of these Regulations, was—

39.1.a

an authorisation by the FCA to provide a data reporting service which had
effect by virtue of Part 2 the 2017 Regulations (“an authorisation to which
this regulation applies”), or

39.1.b

a verification by the FCA of a person’s compliance with the 2017 Regulations
which had effect by virtue of Part 2 of the 2017 Regulations (“a verification
to which this regulation applies”).

39.2

An authorisation to which this regulation applies has effect, from the coming
into force of these Regulations, as though it had been granted by the FCA
under regulation 9 of these Regulations.

39.3

A verification to which this regulation applies has effect, from the coming
into force of these Regulations, as though it were a verification made by the
FCA under regulation 7 of these Regulations.

39.4

Any restriction that was—

39.4.a

imposed by the FCA on an authorisation to which this regulation applies in
accordance with regulation 10 of the 2017 Regulations, and

39.4.b

in effect immediately before the coming into force of these Regulations

has effect, from the coming into force of these Regulations, as though it had
been imposed under regulation 9 of these Regulations.

39.5

Where, before the coming into force of these Regulations, the FCA had proposed
in accordance with regulation 11 of the 2017 Regulations to cancel an
authorisation or verification to which this regulation applies, or to refuse a
request for such a cancellation—

39.5.a

the 2017 Regulations continue to have effect for the purposes of anything
remaining to be done in respect of that proposal; and

39.5.b

paragraphs (2) and (3) do not have effect unless, following a final
determination made in accordance with the 2017 Regulations, the authorisation
or verification is not cancelled.

39.6

Where, immediately before the coming into force of these Regulations, the FCA
had grounds under regulation 11(1)(h) of the 2017 Regulations to believe that
a person had seriously and systematically infringed the requirements imposed
by or under the 2017 Regulations but had not issued a warning notice under
regulation 11(4)(a) of those Regulations, regulation 10(1)(g) of these
Regulations applies as though it included a reference to the 2017 Regulations.

#### Undetermined applications

40

40.1

Where an application referred to in paragraph (2) was made under the 2017
Regulations and had not been determined before the coming into force of these
Regulations, the 2017 Regulations continue to have effect for the purposes of
anything remaining to be done to determine that application.

40.2

The applications are—

40.2.a

an application for authorisation to provide a data reporting service under
regulation 7 of the 2017 Regulations;

40.2.b

an application for verification of compliance with the 2017 Regulations under
regulation 8 of the 2017 Regulations;

40.2.c

an application for a variation of an authorisation to provide a data reporting
service or for a variation of verification of compliance with the 2017
Regulations under regulation 12 of the 2017 Regulations (including that
regulation as applied by regulation 8(10) of those Regulations).

40.3

Following the final determination of—

40.3.a

an application referred to in paragraph (2)(a), any authorisation granted by
the FCA is to be treated as though it had been granted under regulation 9 of
these Regulations;

40.3.b

an application referred to in paragraph (2)(b), any verification of compliance
made by the FCA is to be treated as though it had been made under regulation 7
of these Regulations;

40.3.c

an application referred to in paragraph (2)(c), any variation of an
authorisation or verification of compliance is to be treated as though it had
been granted under regulation 11 of these Regulations (including that
regulation as applied by regulation 7(7)).

#### References to the Tribunal

41

41.1

This Regulation applies where, immediately before the coming into force of
these Regulations a person has—

41.1.a

a right to make a reference to the Tribunal in respect of any decision of the
FCA—

41.1.a.i

to refuse an application referred to in regulation 40(2),

41.1.a.ii

in the case of an authorisation to provide a data reporting service, to grant
the authorisation subject to restrictions under regulation 10 of the 2017
Regulations,

41.1.a.iii

to cancel that person’s authorisation or verification of compliance with the
2017 Regulations under regulation 11 of the 2017 Regulations or to refuse a
request to cancel that authorisation or verification under those Regulations;
or

41.1.b

a reference to the Tribunal has been made but not determined.

41.2

These Regulations do not affect the reference to the Tribunal or the right to
make a reference to the Tribunal.

41.3

In this regulation, reference to a right to make a reference to the Tribunal
includes a prospective right to make such a reference, where the decision
concerned remains to be determined by the FCA immediately before the coming
into force of these Regulations.

#### Administration and determinations

42

Any restriction imposed by the FCA in accordance with regulation 22 of the
2017 Regulations that was in effect immediately before the coming into force
of these Regulations has effect from the coming into force of these
Regulations as though it had been imposed under regulation 13 of these
Regulations.

43

In this Part, reference to a final determination made in accordance with the
2017 Regulations includes the determination of any reference made to the
Tribunal, where applicable.

      Amanda Milling   Joy Morrissey   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty’s Treasury     29th January 2024

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations restate with modifications the provisions of the Data
Reporting Services Regulations 2017 (“ the 2017 Regulations ”) ( S.I. 2017/699
), with the broad exception of Part 3 of the 2017 Regulations referred to
below. The 2017 Regulations made arrangements for the registration and
supervision by the FCA of data reporting service providers. They are retained
EU law and are revoked by section 1(1) of, and Schedule 1 to, the Financial
Services and Markets Act  2023 (c. 29) .

  Certain of the revoked provisions are being replaced in rules made by the
Financial Conduct Authority under section 300H of FSMA 2000 (“ data reporting
service rules ” as defined in regulation 2). These relate principally to
operating requirements for authorised or verified persons, for which Part 3 of
the 2017 Regulations had made provision. Corresponding modifications to these
Regulations include—         in Part 3, references to a requirement imposed by
or under these Regulations includes data reporting service rules (regulation
2(4));           applicants for authorisation to provide a data reporting
service or for verification of compliance with these Regulations must
demonstrate compliance with the data reporting service rules (regulations 5, 7
and 8);           an authorisation or verification may be cancelled where data
reporting service rules have been contravened (regulations 7 and 10);
an authorisation or verification may be subject to the imposition of
restrictions where data reporting service rules are contravened (regulation
13).           Chapter 2 of Part 3 (Application of FSMA 2000 for the purposes
of the Regulations) and Part 5 (amendment of assimilated legislation) now
include modifications and amendments relating to data reporting service rules.

  Other modifications include—         arrangements for the provision of a CTP
service to be put out to tender by the FCA, following which the service
concerned may not be provided by anyone other than a person to whom the tender
contract is awarded (regulation 6). The FCA has discretion to cancel an
existing authorisation or verification where a person providing the service
concerned is not awarded the tender contract (regulation 7(7) and 10(1)(b));
some administrative and enforcement arrangements for which Part 4 of the 2017
Regulations had made provision are now restated by applying equivalent
provisions under FSMA 2000 with appropriate modifications; these include the
FCA’s general duties (regulation 15), provision for supervision, monitoring
and enforcement (regulation 16), disciplinary measures (regulation 19), the
offence of misleading the FCA (regulation 24(3)) and the application of powers
to formerly authorised persons (regulation 26).

  A de minimis impact assessment of the effect of this instrument is available
from HM Treasury, 1 Horse Guards Road, London, SW1A 2HQ and is published with
the Explanatory Memorandum alongside this instrument at
www.legislation.gov.uk .

