Title: The Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-06-11
Description: These Regulations make provision as to the amount payable in certain circumstances as non-domestic rates in Scotland. They apply to the financial year 2024-2025. The Regulations do not apply where a non-domestic property is shown in a merged, split or reorganised entry in the valuation roll which takes effect during the financial year 2024-2025.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2024/5

## The Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2024

    Rating And Valuation

  Made   9th January 2024

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   11th January 2024

  Coming into force   1st April 2024

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 153 of the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act
1994 , section 14(1) of the Non-Domestic Rates (Scotland) Act 2020  (“ the
2020 Act ”) and all other powers enabling them to do so.           In
accordance with section 145 of the 2020 Act the Scottish Ministers have
consulted such persons as they consider appropriate.

### Introductory

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief)
(Scotland) Regulations 2024 and come into force on 1 April 2024.

#### Interpretation – general 

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1962 Act ” means the Local Government (Financial Provisions etc.)
(Scotland) Act 1962 ,           “ the 1966 Act ” means the Local Government
(Scotland) Act 1966 ,           “ the 1975 Act ” means the Local Government
(Scotland) Act 1975 ,           “ the 1997 Act ” means the Local Government
and Rating Act 1997 ,           “ the 2022 Regulations ” means the Non-
Domestic Rates (Levying and Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations
2022 ,           “ the 2023 Regulations ” means the Non-Domestic Rates
(Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023 ,           “ the 2024
Regulations ” means the Non-Domestic Rates (Levying and Miscellaneous
Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations 2024 ,           “ electronic communication
” has the meaning given in section 15(1) of the Electronic Communications Act
2000 ,           “ new entry ”, in relation to a split, merged or reorganised
entry, means an entry in the roll taking effect from the day on which the
merged, split or reorganised entry takes effect,           “ New and Improved
Property Relief Regulations ” means the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and
Improved Properties) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 ,           “ old entry ”, in
relation to a merged, split or reorganised entry, means an entry in the roll
for the day immediately prior to the day from which the merged, split or
reorganised entry takes effect,           “ part residential subjects ” has
the meaning given in section 99(1) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 ,
“ rateable value ”, in relation to lands and heritages at a particular date,
means—         in the case of part residential subjects, the rateable value
entered in the roll for that date and apportioned to the non-residential use
of those subjects,           in any other case, the rateable value entered in
the roll for that date in respect of those lands and heritages,   and includes
a rateable value so entered with retrospective effect,                 “ rates
” means non-domestic rates levied under section 7B of the 1975 Act ,
“ the relevant year ” means the period of 12 months beginning with 1 April
2024,           “ revaluation ” means the calculation of the rateable value of
lands and heritages in connection with the making up of a valuation roll under
section 1(1) of the 1975 Act,           “ the roll ” means a valuation roll
made up under section 1(1) of the 1975 Act.

#### Interpretation – mergers

3

In these Regulations—

      “ merged entry ” means any entry in the roll taking effect on a day in
the relevant year as a result of the lands and heritages shown in two or more
old entries being shown in a single new entry where—         none of the lands
and heritages shown in the relevant old entries are shown in a new entry,
other than in the merged entry, and           the merged entry does not show
any lands and heritages shown in an old entry, other than in the relevant old
entries,                 “ the relevant old entries ”, in relation to a merged
entry, means the old entries which showed the lands and heritages shown in the
merged entry.

#### Interpretation - splits

4

In these Regulations—

      “ split entry ” means any entry in the roll taking effect on a day in
the relevant year as a result of lands and heritages shown in a single old
entry being shown in two or more new entries, where—         none of those new
entries show lands and heritages shown in an old entry, other than in the
relevant old entry, and           no lands and heritages shown in the relevant
old entry are shown in a new entry, other than in those new entries,
“ the relevant old entry ”, in relation to a split entry, means the old entry
which showed the lands and heritages shown in the split entry.

#### Interpretation – reorganisations

5

In these Regulations—

      “ reorganised entry ” means any entry in the roll taking effect on a day
in the relevant year which is not a split or a merged entry and which shows
lands and heritages—         which were to any extent shown in two or more old
entries, or           which are part only of lands and heritages shown in a
single old entry and the other part of which is shown to any extent in one or
more other new entries,                 “ the relevant old entries ”, in
relation to a reorganised entry, means the old entries affected by the
reorganisation which gave rise to that entry,           “ reorganisation ”
means a situation where, with effect from a day in the relevant year, lands
and heritages shown immediately before that day in two or more old entries are
shown in two or more new entries, each of which is a reorganised entry.

### Lands and heritages in the roll on 1 April 2023

#### Application of Parts 2 and 4

6

6.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), this Part and Part 4 apply to lands and
heritages—

6.1.a

which were shown in the roll on 1 April 2023, and

6.1.b

in respect of all or any part of which there was an entry, or were entries, in
the roll on 31 March 2023.

6.2

This Part does not apply to lands and heritages shown in an entry in the roll
on 1 April 2023 if—

6.2.a

that entry showed a nil rateable value, or

6.2.b

the only lands and heritages shown in that entry which were to any extent
shown in the roll on 31 March 2023 had a nil rateable value on 1 April 2023.

6.3

This Part does not apply to any lands and heritages shown in an entry if the
only lands and heritages that were to any extent shown in the roll on 31 March
2023 had a nil rateable value on 31 March 2023 but had a rateable value above
zero on 1 April 2023.

6.4

Where a merged, split or reorganised entry takes effect on a date after 1
April 2023, this Part and Part 4 cease to apply to the lands and heritages
shown in that entry, as from the date on which the merged, split or
reorganised entry takes effect.

#### Amount payable as rates

7

Where the notional liability in respect of any lands and heritages to which
this Part applies on any day in the relevant year is more than the
transitional limit in respect of those lands and heritages on that day, the
amount payable as rates in respect of those lands and heritages on that day
is, subject to Part 3, that transitional limit, calculated in accordance with
regulation 9.

#### Notional liability

8

The notional liability of any lands and heritages to which this Part applies
on any day is to be calculated in accordance with the formula—

        R V × P F 365               where—         RV is the rateable value of
those lands and heritages on that day, and           PF is the poundage figure
of —         0.559 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value
exceeding £100,000,           0.545 where the lands and heritages have a
rateable value exceeding £51,000 but not exceeding £100,000,           0.498
where the lands and heritages which have a rateable value of £51,000 or less.

#### Transitional limit

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (3), in respect of lands and heritages to which this Part
applies on any day—

9.1.a

where the rateable value for that day exceeds the rateable value on 1 April
2023, the transitional limit is calculated in accordance with the formula—

        B L × X ± C R V - R V × P F 365

9.1.b

in any other case the transitional limit is calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        B L × X × C R V 365 × R V

9.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

      BL is the base liability of the lands and heritages, calculated in
accordance with regulation 10,           CRV is the rateable value of the
lands and heritages on the day with reference to which the transitional limit
is calculated,           RV is the rateable value of the lands and heritages
entered in the roll at revaluation on 1 April 2023,           PF is the
poundage figure of—         0.559 where the lands and heritages have a
rateable value exceeding £100,000,           0.545 where the lands and
heritages have a rateable value exceeding £51,000 but not exceeding £100,000,
0.498 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value of £51,000 or less,
and                 X is—         2.406 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023
the lands and heritages had a rateable value of more than £100,000,
1.875 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages had a
rateable value between £20,001 and £100,000,           1.406 where at
revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages had a rateable value of
£20,000 or less.

9.3

Where relief is granted under regulation 10A  (relief granted – financial year
2024-25- lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant increase has been
made within the previous 12 months) of the New and Improved Property Relief
Regulations the transitional limit is calculated in accordance with paragraph
(5) of that regulation.

#### Base liability

10

10.1

The base liability in respect of any lands and heritages is—

10.1.a

in the case of lands and heritages shown in a split or reorganised entry
taking effect on 1 April 2023, to be calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        ( N L × 365 ) / X               where—         NL is the notional
liability of those lands and heritages, calculated in accordance with
regulation 8, and           X is—           1.4 where at revaluation on 1
April 2023 the lands and heritages had a rateable value of more than £100,000,
1.25 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages had a
rateable value between £20,001 and £100,000,           1.2 where at
revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages had a rateable value of
£20,000 or less,

10.1.b

in any other case, the deemed amount (or, in the case of a merged entry taking
effect on 1 April 2023, the total deemed amount) in respect of those lands and
heritages calculated in accordance with paragraph (2).

10.2

In paragraph (1)(b), the deemed amount in respect of any lands and heritages
is the amount which would have been payable as rates in respect of those lands
and heritages for the financial year ending 31 March 2023, had that amount
been calculated on the basis of the rateable value of the lands and heritages
on 31 March 2023, including any additional amounts of rates payable in terms
of regulation 4 (amount payable as rates – lands and heritages with rateable
value exceeding £51,000, but not exceeding £95,000) or 5 (amount payable as
rates – lands and heritages with rateable value exceeding £95,000) of the 2022
Regulations, but before applying any reliefs.

### Reductions, remissions and exemptions

#### Charitable and other reductions

11

11.1

This regulation has effect for determining the amount payable as rates in
respect of lands and heritages on a day in the relevant year where—

11.1.a

that amount falls to be reduced by relief provided for in one or more
enactments, other than in Part 2 of these Regulations,

11.1.b

regulation 7 has effect as regards those lands and heritages on that day, and

11.1.c

regulation 12 does not have effect as regards those lands and heritages on
that day.

11.2

The amount payable is to be determined by applying the enactment referred to
in paragraph (1)(a) by which the amount in question is reduced to the amount
determined under regulation 7, in the same manner as that enactment would be
applied to the full amount payable as rates in a case where the only relief
applicable was the relief under that enactment.

#### Partially unoccupied lands and heritages

12

12.1

This regulation has effect for determining the amount payable as rates in
respect of lands and heritages on a day in the relevant year where—

12.1.a

on that day those lands and heritages are subject to an apportionment under
section 24A of the 1966 Act , and

12.1.b

regulation 7 has effect as regards those lands and heritages on that day.

12.2

The amount payable is, subject to paragraph (3), to be calculated in
accordance with the formula—

A × A R V R V where— A is the amount payable for the day determined under
regulation 7, ARV is the applicable rateable value, being the rateable value
treated for rating purposes as the rateable value of the lands and heritages
in terms of section 24A(2) of the 1966 Act, and RV is the rateable value shown
in the roll for those lands and heritages.

12.3

Where—

12.3.a

this regulation has effect as regards lands and heritages on a day, and

12.3.b

the amount payable as rates in respect of those lands and heritages on that
day falls to be reduced   by virtue of relief described to in regulation
11(1)(a) ,

the amount payable is to be determined in accordance with regulation 11(2) but
as though for “regulation 7” there were substituted  “regulation 12(2)” .

12.4

This regulation ceases to apply where a merged entry takes effect on or after
1 April 2023, unless relief under regulation 11 was in place in respect of the
lands and heritages in each of the entries which forms part of the merged
entry, immediately before the merged entry took effect.

#### Exemptions and discretionary reductions and remissions

13

Nothing in these Regulations—

13.a

requires rates to be paid in respect of lands and heritages for a day where
those lands and heritages are entirely exempt from rates for that day under
any enactment, or

13.b

prejudices the power of a rating authority to grant a reduction or remission
of rates under section 3A or 4(5) of the 1962 Act , section 25A of the 1966
Act  or paragraph 4 of schedule 2 of the 1997 Act .

### Cases involving small business bonus scheme relief or rural property relief as at 31 March 2023

#### Cap for properties with small business bonus scheme relief or rural property relief

14

14.1

This regulation applies in relation to lands and heritages where the amount of
rates payable in respect of the lands and heritages was reduced by any of the
following as at 31 March 2023—

14.1.a

regulation 3 (amount payable as rates – lands and heritages with a rateable
value of £18,000 or less) of the 2022 Regulations,

14.1.b

paragraph 3 or 4  of schedule 2 of the 1997 Act (relief from non-domestic
rates for general stores etc. in rural settlements: Scotland), where
entitlement to the reduction is lost on 1 April 2023 as a result of an
increase in rateable value of the lands and heritages above the limit provided
for in—

14.1.b.i

article 3(1)(a) or, as the case may be, article 3(1)(b) of the 2005 Order, or

14.1.b.ii

article 3(2) of the 2005 Order.

14.2

Where the net notional liability in respect of any lands and heritages to
which this regulation applies on any day in the relevant year is more than the
transitional limit in respect of those lands and heritages on that day,
calculated in accordance with paragraph (4), the amount payable as rates in
respect of those lands and heritages on that day is the limit calculated in
accordance with paragraph (4).

14.3

The net notional liability of any lands and heritages to which this regulation
applies on any day is equal to the notional liability calculated in accordance
with regulation 8, after any reliefs have been applied, including under
regulation 7.

14.4

In respect of lands and heritages to which this regulation applies on any day—

14.4.a

where the rateable value for that day exceeds the rateable value on 1 April
2023, the transitional limit is calculated in accordance with the formula—

        D A ± 1200 ± C R V - R V × P F - A × 100 % - Z 365

14.4.b

in any other case the transitional limit is calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        D A ± 1200 × C R V 365 × R V               where—         A is the
amount of relief granted under regulation 10 of the New and Improved Property
Relief Regulations in respect of the day with reference to which the
transitional limit is calculated, multiplied by 365,           CRV is the
rateable value of the lands and heritages on the day with reference to which
the transitional limit is calculated,           DA is the deemed amount within
the meaning given in paragraph (5),           PF is the poundage figure of—
0.559 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding £100,000,
0.545 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding £51,000
but not exceeding £100,000,           0.498 where the lands and heritages have
a rateable value of £51,000 or less,                   RV is the rateable
value of the lands and heritages on 1 April 2023, and           Z is the
percentage of relief other than relief under regulation 10A of the New and
Improved Property Relief Regulations granted in respect of the day with
reference to which the transitional limit is calculated.

14.5

For the purposes of this regulation the deemed amount in respect of any lands
and heritages is the amount which would have been payable as rates in respect
of those lands and heritages for the financial year ending 31 March 2023, had
that amount been calculated on the basis of the rateable value of the lands
and heritages on 31 March 2023, including any additional amounts of rates
payable in terms of regulation 4 (amount payable as rates – lands and
heritages with rateable value exceeding £51,000 but not exceeding £95,000) or
5 (lands and heritages with rateable value exceeding £95,000) of the 2022
Regulations, and after applying any reliefs.

14.6

Where there is an entitlement to relief under both this regulation and
regulation 7, relief under this regulation is to be applied to the amount of
rates payable after regulation 7 is applied.

14.7

Subject to paragraph (8), relief under this regulation may only be granted
where an application is made in accordance with regulation 16.

14.8

Where relief under regulation 14 of the 2023 Regulations has been granted in
respect of the financial year 2023-24, no application need be made in respect
of the relevant year.

14.9

In this regulation “ the 2005 Order ” means the Non-Domestic Rating (Rural
Areas and Rateable Value Limits)(Scotland) Order 2005 .

### Parks

#### Relief for parks or parts of parks previously exempt from rating and becoming rateable on 1 April 2023

15

15.1

In relation to the relevant year, this regulation grants relief in relation to
lands and heritages where the lands and heritages were entered in the roll on
1 April 2023, in terms of section 19(1ZA) of the Local Government (Financial
Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1963 , together with section 19(1ZB) or, as the
case may be, section 19(1ZC) of that Act.

15.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the relief granted is that the rates
payable in respect of a day in the relevant year are reduced by 33% of the
daily gross rates payable in respect of the lands and heritages for that day.

15.3

Where the entry in a roll in relation to lands and heritages is split or
reorganised on or after 1 April 2023, the gross rates liability of each part
of the lands and heritages which is the subject of an entry is reduced by 33%.

15.4

Subject to paragraph (5), relief may only be granted under this regulation
where an application is made in accordance with regulation 16.

15.5

Where relief under regulation 15 of the 2023 Regulations has been granted in
respect of the financial year 2023-2024, no application need be made in
respect of the relevant year.

### General

#### Applications for relief

16

16.1

An application for relief under these Regulations must be signed by the
ratepayer, or a person authorised to sign on behalf of the ratepayer.

16.2

An application under paragraph (1) must be made to the local authority by—

16.2.a

addressing it to the authority, and

16.2.b

delivering or sending it to the authority’s office by post or electronic
communication.

16.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

16.3.a

“ person authorised to sign on behalf of the ratepayer ” means, where the
ratepayer is—

16.3.a.i

a partnership, a partner of that partnership or any other person authorised by
it,

16.3.a.ii

a trust, a trustee of that trust or any other person authorised by it,

16.3.a.iii

a body corporate, a director of that body, and

16.3.b

“sign” or “ signed ” in relation to an application made by electronic
communication means an electronic signature, as defined in section 7(2) of the
Electronic Communications Act 2000 .

#### Amendment of the New and Improved Property Relief Regulations

17

17.1

The New and Improved Property Relief Regulations are amended in accordance
with paragraphs (2) to (4).

17.2

In regulation 10 (relief granted – lands and heritages in respect of which a
relevant increase has been made within the previous 12 months)—

17.2.a

in paragraph (1), at the beginning, for “The” substitute  “In relation to the
financial year 2023-2024, the” ,

17.2.b

in paragraph (4), at, the beginning, for “2017” substitute  “2023” ,

17.2.c

in paragraph (5)(b)—

17.2.c.i

in the formula—

17.2.c.i.aa

for “2.247” substitute  “X” ,

17.2.c.i.bb

for “365” substitute  “366” , and

17.2.c.ii

in the description of “BL, ARV and RV” for “BL, ARV and RV” substitute  “BL,
ARV, RV and X” .

17.3

After regulation 10 insert—

########## Relief granted – financial year 2024-2025 – lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant increase has been made within the previous 12 months

17.3.10A

17.3.10A.1

In relation to the financial year 2024-2025 the relief granted is that the
amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be reduced as set out in paragraph
(4) or, as the case may be, paragraph (5).

17.3.10A.2

The amount of relief granted depends on—

17.3.10A.2.a

whether regulation 7 of the 2024 Regulations applies (transitional relief in
the amount of rates payable),

17.3.10A.2.b

the total amount of any relevant increases made in respect of the lands and
heritages taking effect on a day within the previous 12 months (“the reference
amount”).

17.3.10A.3

No relief is granted unless an application is made in accordance with
regulation 12.

17.3.10A.4

Where regulation 7 of the 2024 Regulations does not apply to the lands and
heritages—

17.3.10A.4.a

the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be calculated on the rateable
value minus the reference amount, but

17.3.10A.4.b

if the rateable value minus the reference amount is a negative figure, then no
relief is granted (and the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be
calculated on the rateable value).

17.3.10A.5

Where regulation 7 of the 2024 Regulations applies, the amount of non-domestic
rates payable is the transitional limit calculated in accordance with
regulation 9 of those Regulations, and for these purposes the transitional
limit is to be calculated—

17.3.10A.5.a

in respect of the lands and heritages for which the rateable value exceeds the
sum of the rateable value on 1 April 2023 and the reference amount, in
accordance with the formula—

        B L × X ± A R V - R V × P F 365               where—         ARV is
the adjusted rateable value, found by subtracting the reference amount from
the rateable value of the land and heritages,           BL is the base
liability of the lands and heritages calculated in accordance with regulation
10 of the 2024 Regulations,           RV is the rateable value of the lands
and heritages on 1 April 2023,           PF is the poundage figure of—
0.559 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding £100,000,
0.545 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding £51,000
but not exceeding £100, 000,           0.498 where the lands and heritages
have a rateable value of £51,000 or less, and                 X is—
1.406 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages had a
rateable value of £20,000 or less,           1.875 where at revaluation on 1
April 2023 the lands and heritages had a rateable value between £20,001 and
£100,000,           2.406 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and
heritages had a rateable value of more than £100,000, or

17.3.10A.5.b

in any other case in accordance with the formula—

        B L × X × A R V 365 × R V               where—         BL, ARV, RV and
X have the same meanings as in sub-paragraph (a).

17.3.10A.6

In this regulation, “ the 2024 Regulations ” means the Non-Domestic Rates
(Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2024 .

.

17.4

In regulation 16 (exclusion of relief in respect of parks) after “2023”
insert—

or regulation 15 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland)
Regulations 2024

.

#### Amendment of the Non-Domestic Rates (Restriction of Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023

18

18.1

The Non-Domestic Rates (Restriction of Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023
are amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

18.2

In regulation 3(2) (conditions on granting non-domestic rates relief)—

18.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (h) omit “and”,

18.2.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) insert—

18.2.b.j

Regulation 15 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland)
Regulations 2024, and

18.2.b.k

Regulation 4 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Islands and Remote Areas Hospitality
Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2024 .

#### Amendment of the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023

19

19.1

The Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023  are
amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

19.2

In regulation 15 (relief for parks or parts of parks previously exempt from
rating and becoming rateable on 1 April 2023) for “This” substitute  “In
relation to the relevant year, this” .

      TOM ARTHUR   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       9th January 2024

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision as to the amount payable in certain
circumstances as non-domestic rates in Scotland. They apply to the financial
year 2024-2025. The Regulations do not apply where a non-domestic property is
shown in a merged, split or reorganised entry in the valuation roll which
takes effect during the financial year 2024-2025.

  Part 1 makes provision as to citation, commencement and interpretation.

  Part 2 deals with amounts payable in respect of lands and heritages which
were shown in the valuation roll as at 31 March 2023 and 1 April 2023. For
every day of the financial year 2024-25 the notional rates liability for a
non-domestic property (that is, the gross amount ordinarily payable as rates
before any reliefs are applied, calculated in accordance with regulation 8)
must be compared against that property’s transitional limit. If the notional
liability, calculated in accordance with regulation 8, is more than the
transitional limit, the amount payable will be equal to the transitional
limit. This is provided for by regulation 7. The transitional limit is
calculated by multiplying the base liability of the lands and heritages,
calculated under regulation 10, by whichever is the appropriate factor as
provided for by regulation 9.

  Part 3 deals with reductions, remissions and exemptions. Regulation 11
provides for reductions under other enactments to apply in cases where the
amount of rates payable is determined under regulation 7 of these Regulations
in the same way as they apply in cases where regulation 7 does not have
effect.

  Regulation 12 provides for calculation of rates liability in respect of
lands and heritages which are partially unoccupied, and to which regulation 7
applies, where there is an apportionment between the rateable value of the
parts of the lands and heritages which are occupied, and those which are
unoccupied. In determining liability, the rateable value is taken to be the
figure attributed only to the part of the property which is occupied.

  In terms of regulation 13, nothing in the Regulations requires the payment
of rates on property on a day on which it is entirely exempt from rates under
any other enactment, or prejudices the power of a rating authority to grant
discretionary reductions or remissions.

  Part 4 (regulation 14) provides for a cap on increase in rates liability on
certain lands and heritages in respect of which there was entitlement to small
business bonus scheme relief under regulation 3 of the Non-Domestic Rates
(Levying and Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 or rural
property relief under schedule 2 of the Local Government and Rating Act 1997,
as at 31 March 2023. In relation to rural property relief, the cap applies
only where entitlement to the relief was lost on 1 April 2023 as a result of
an increase in rateable value taking it above whichever limit as set down by
article 3(1) of the Non-Domestic Rating (Rural Areas and Rateable Value
Limits) (Scotland) Order 2005 applies (in relation to mandatory relief) or
article 3(2), in the case of discretionary relief. The cap can be relied upon
as an alternative to reliance on regulation 7, where reliance on this Part
provides a more favourable result in relation to entitlement to relief than
application of the transitional limit calculated in accordance with regulation
9. Regulation 14(6) provides that where there is an entitlement to relief
under both regulations 7 and 14, relief under regulation 14 is to be applied
to the rates liability arrived at through applying regulation 7.

  Part 5 (regulation 15) provides for relief for lands and heritages
consisting of certain types of parks or parts of parks which became rateable
on 1 April 2023 as a result of the taking effect of amendments to section 19
of the Local Government (Financial Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1963. The relief
granted is 33% relief on the daily gross rates payable in respect of the lands
and heritages for a day in the financial year 2024-2025. Where the entry in a
valuation roll is split or reorganised on or after 1 April 2023, a 33%
reduction is made on the gross rates liability on each part of the lands and
heritages which is the subject of an entry in the valuation roll.

  Part 6 deals with general matters. Regulation 16 provides the process for
making an application for relief. An application is required for relief under
regulations 14 and 15, unless relief under the equivalent provisions of the
Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023 has been
granted in respect of the financial year 2023-2024. In that case no
application for relief is required for the financial year 2024-2025.

  Regulation 17 amends regulation 10 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New
and Improved Properties) (Scotland) Regulations 2022, to narrow its
application so that it only applies to the financial year 2023-24, as well as
making some changes to clarify the provision in relation to its application to
transitional relief. It also inserts a new regulation 10A to deal with the
financial year 2024-2025. Further, it expands regulation 16 to refer to the
provision of the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland)
Regulations 2024 which provides relief for parks which became rateable on 1
April 2023 as a result of the taking effect of amendments to section 19 of the
Local Government (Financial Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1963.

  Regulation 18 amends the Non-Domestic Rates (Restriction of Relief)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 to add relief under regulation 15 of the Non-
Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2024 to the list
of reliefs which require to meet certain conditions if they are to be given as
minimal financial assistance.

  Regulation 19 amends regulation 15 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional
Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023, on parks which became rateable on 1 April
2023, to restrict its application to the financial year 2023-24.

  Correction Note: The consultation requirement in section 14 of the Non-
Domestic Rates (Scotland) Act 2020, though cited in the preamble as being in
section 145, is in section 14(5). The Scottish Government’s explanation is
available on the Scottish Parliament website at
https://www.parliament.scot/~/media/committ/7519 .

