Title: The Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-11-06
Description: These Regulations designate areas in England (“designated areas”) for the purpose of paragraph 39(1) of Schedule 7B to the Local Government Finance Act 1988 (“the 1988 Act”) (local retention of non-domestic rates). They provide rules for calculating in respect of a billing authority in England all or part of whose area falls within a designated area—the billing authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of the designated area for a specified year; andthe proportion of that non-domestic rating income that is to be disregarded for the purpose of specified calculations under Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/183

## The Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas) Regulations 2024

    Rating And Valuation, England

  Made   20th February 2024

  Laid before Parliament   22nd February 2024

  Coming into force   1st April 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 143(1) of, and paragraph 39 of Schedule 7B to, the Local
Government Finance Act 1988  (“ the 1988 Act ”).           These Regulations
are made with the consent of the Treasury in accordance with paragraph 39(13)
of Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas)
Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st April 2024 and extend to England and
Wales.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1988 Act ” means the Local Government Finance Act 1988;
“ billing authority ” means a billing authority in England, part of whose area
falls within a designated area;           “ designated area ” means an area
designated under regulation 3(1);           “ local list ” means a local non-
domestic rating list ;           “ non-domestic rating income ”, in relation
to a billing authority, means the amount calculated under Part 2 of Schedule 2
in respect of a designated area for a specified year;           “ non-domestic
rating multiplier ”, in relation to a chargeable financial year, means the
non-domestic rating multiplier for the year calculated by the Secretary of
State under Schedule 7 to the 1988 Act ;           “ preceding year ” means
the chargeable financial year  immediately preceding the specified year for
which a calculation under Part 3 of Schedule 2 is made;           “
revaluation year ” means a year in which a local list must be compiled under
section 41 of the 1988 Act ;           “ Schedule 7B ” means Schedule 7B to
the 1988 Act;           “ small business non-domestic rating multiplier ”, in
relation to a chargeable financial year, means the small business non-domestic
rating multiplier for that year calculated by the Secretary of State under
Schedule 7 to the 1988 Act;           “ small business rate baseline amount ”,
in relation to a billing authority, means the amount calculated under
paragraph 3 or 4 (as appropriate) of Schedule 2 in respect of a designated
area for a specified year;           “ specified year ” means, in relation to
a designated area, a chargeable financial year falling within the period of
years specified in relation to that area in regulation 3(2) or (3) (as the
case may be);           “ standard business rate baseline amount ”, in
relation to a billing authority, means the amount calculated under paragraph 5
or 6 (as appropriate) of Schedule 2 in respect of a designated area for a
specified year;           “ total baseline amount ”, in relation to a billing
authority, means the amount calculated under paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 in
respect of a designated area for a specified year.

### Designation of areas

3

3.1

The areas listed in Schedule 1 are designated for the purposes of these
Regulations.

3.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the designations take effect on 1st April 2024 for
the period of 25 years beginning with that date.

3.3

The designations of the following areas take effect on 1st April 2024 for the
period of 24 years beginning with that date—

3.3.a

Able Marine Energy Park (AMEP);

3.3.b

Dagenham;

3.3.c

Goole Tax Site;

3.3.d

Hull East – East Riding of Yorkshire;

3.3.e

London Gateway;

3.3.f

Tilbury.

### Proportion of non-domestic rating income for a designated area to be disregarded

4

4.1

Part 1 of Schedule 2 provides rules for calculating the proportion of a
billing authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of a designated area
for a specified year.

4.2

The proportion is to be disregarded for the purpose of calculations under—

4.2.a

any of the following provisions of Schedule 7B—

4.2.a.i

paragraph 6 (payments to the Secretary of State in respect of the central
share);

4.2.a.ii

paragraph 13 (calculations following local government finance report);

4.2.a.iii

paragraph 16 (calculations following amending report);

4.2.a.iv

paragraph 23 (calculation of levy payments) ;

4.2.a.v

paragraph 26 (calculations of safety net payments) ;

4.2.a.vi

paragraph 30 (distribution of remaining balance) ;

4.2.b

regulations made under any of the following provisions of Schedule 7B—

4.2.b.i

paragraph 7 (administrative arrangements for payments in respect of the
central share);

4.2.b.ii

paragraph 9 (payments by billing authorities to major precepting authorities);

4.2.b.iii

paragraph 10 (administrative arrangements for payments by billing authorities
to major precepting authorities);

4.2.b.iv

paragraph 28 (regulations about payments on account).

### Amendment of the Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas etc) Regulations 2017

5

5.1

The Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas etc) Regulations 2017  are amended
as follows.

5.2

In regulation 3 (interpretation), for the definition of “period of
designation” substitute—

      “ period of designation ” means—         for the York Central Enterprise
Zone–York Central Site Designated Area, the period of 35 years specified in
regulation 4(3);           for any other designated area, the period of 25
years specified in regulation 4(2);

5.3

In regulation 4 (designation of areas)—

5.3.a

in paragraph (2), after “and”, insert  “, subject to paragraph (3),” ;

5.3.b

after paragraph (2), insert—

5.3.b.3

The designation of the York Central Enterprise Zone–York Central Site
Designated Area has effect for the period of 35 years which comprises—

5.3.b.3.a

the period of 25 years specified in paragraph (2), and

5.3.b.3.b

a further period of 10 years beginning immediately after the end of the period
specified in paragraph (2).

.

      We consent to the making of these Regulations       Scott Mann   Joy
Morrissey   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury     19th
February 2024             Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities       Simon Hoare   Parliamentary Under
Secretary of State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities
20th February 2024

  Local retention of non-domestic rates: designation of areas

Regulation 3

1

Each of the areas listed in column 2 of the table in this Schedule is
designated by reference to the area or areas bounded externally by the outer
edge of the red line shown on the map specified in column 1 of the table.

2

A reference in this Schedule to a map is to one of the maps numbered 1 to 29
and entitled “Maps referred to in Schedule 1 to the Non-Domestic Rating
(Designated Areas) Regulations 2024” of which prints, signed by a member of
the Senior Civil Service in the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities, are deposited and available for inspection at the offices of the
Secretary of State for   Housing, Communities and Local Government   and, in
relation to each map, at the offices of the billing authority to which the map
relates as specified in column 3 of the table in this Schedule.

3

For the purposes of determining a designated area, where part only of a
hereditament is situated within an area shown on a map, the whole of the
hereditament is taken to be included within that designated area.

      Numbered map (Column 1) Designated area (Column 2) Billing authority
(Column 3) Value of J (£) (see paragraph 8 of Schedule 2) (Column 4) Value of
N (£) (see paragraph 8 of Schedule 2) (Column 5)   1 Able Marine Energy Park
(AMEP) North Lincolnshire 22,207 0 2 Dagenham Barking & Dagenham 0 3,732,520 3
Goole Tax Site East Riding of Yorkshire 0 0 4 Hull East – East Riding of
Yorkshire East Riding of Yorkshire 0 399,379 5 London Gateway Thurrock 22,227
551,422 6 Tilbury Thurrock 0 218,477 7 City Centre and North East – Manchester
City Manchester City 3,626,815 17,664,506 8 City Centre and North East –
Salford City Salford City 299,726 1,857,560 9 East Birmingham and North
Solihull Growth Zone – Birmingham City Birmingham City 2,209,930 5,563,765 10
East Birmingham and North Solihull Growth Zone - Solihull Solihull 51,366
202,349 11 Salford Quays and Trafford Wharfside - Salford Salford City
4,033,649 19,582,617 12 Salford Quays and Trafford Wharfside - Trafford
Trafford 1,386,476 9,152,600 13 Sandwell and Dudley Growth Zone - Dudley
Dudley 42,176 89 14 Sandwell and Dudley Growth Zone - Sandwell Sandwell 80,607
364,802 15 Trafford Park Trafford 1,469,910 12,426,293 16 Walsall Levelling Up
Zone Walsall 2,444 0 17 Birmingham Knowledge Quarter Birmingham City 2,937,452
4,851,857 18 Northumberland Energy Park Northumberland County 24,326 100,096
19 South Yorkshire Investment Zone (Sheffield) – Business Rates Retention Area
Sheffield City 956,441 2,383,376 20 Coventry and Warwick Gigapark - Coventry
Coventry City 1,043 0 21 Coventry and Warwick Gigapark – Warwick Warwick 1,277
260,718 22 Gateway East Doncaster 0 0 23 IAMSS (Northern Employment Area) –
South Tyneside South Tyneside 0 0 24 IAMSS (Northern Employment Area) –
Sunderland City Sunderland City 998 0 25 Manchester-Salford Smile Investment
Zone Manchester City 2,701,045 13,130,111 26 Manchester-Salford Smile
Investment Zone Salford City 1,025,151 2,796,508 27 Northern Gateway: Atom
Valley - Bury Bury 0 0 28 Northern Gateway: Atom Valley - Rochdale Rochdale 0
0 29 St Helens Manufacturing and Innovation Campus St Helens Borough 0 521,078

  Calculations for designated areas

Regulations 2 and 4

##### Proportion of non-domestic rating income to be disregarded

1

1.1

Unless sub-paragraph (2) applies, the proportion of a billing authority’s non-
domestic rating income in respect of a designated area for a specified year is
the difference between the authority’s—

1.1.a

non-domestic rating income in respect of the designated area for that year,
and

1.1.b

total baseline amount in respect of the designated area for that year.

1.2

If the total baseline amount is greater than or equal to the non-domestic
rating income, the proportion is zero.

##### Calculation of non-domestic rating income

2

2.1

A billing authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of a designated
area for a specified year is the amount calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        A - B + C - D + E + F + G - H               where—       A is the
total of the amounts credited to the authority’s collection fund income and
expenditure account in that year in accordance with proper practices  in
respect of non-domestic rates payable under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988 Act
in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area;       B is the
total of the amounts charged to the authority’s collection fund income and
expenditure account in that year in accordance with proper practices in
respect of non-domestic rates payable under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988 Act
in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area;       C is the
amount of any transitional protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of
Schedule 7B made to the authority in that year in respect of hereditaments
situated in the designated area;       D is the amount of any transitional
protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of Schedule 7B made by the authority
in that year in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area;
E is the total of the amounts credited to the authority’s collection fund
income and expenditure account in that year in accordance with proper
practices in respect of non-domestic rates payable under sections 43 and 45 of
the 1988 Act in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area to
which sub-paragraph (2) applies;       F is the total of the amounts charged
to the authority’s collection fund income and expenditure account in that year
in accordance with proper practices in respect of non-domestic rates payable
under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988 Act in respect of hereditaments situated
in the designated area to which sub-paragraph (2) applies;       G is the
amount of transitional protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of Schedule
7B made by the authority in that year in respect of hereditaments situated in
the designated area to which sub-paragraph (2) applies;   H is the amount of
transitional protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of Schedule 7B made to
the authority in that year in respect of hereditaments situated in the
designated area to which sub-paragraph (2) applies.

2.2

This sub-paragraph applies to a hereditament which—

2.2.a

is to be treated as one hereditament by virtue of regulations made under
section 64(3)(b) of the 1988 Act, and

2.2.b

would have constituted three or more separate hereditaments had regulations
under section 64(3)(b) not been made.

2.3

In this paragraph, references to an authority’s collection fund income and
expenditure account are a reference to a revenue account to which, in
accordance with proper practices, amounts are credited or charged in respect
of the authority’s income or expenditure relating to sums paid or to be paid
into or payments met or to be met from the authority’s collection fund.

##### Calculation of the baseline amounts

###### Small business rate baseline: non-revaluation year

3

3.1

If a specified year is not a revaluation year, a billing authority’s small
business rate baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the
specified year is the amount calculated under sub-paragraph (2) or (3).

3.2

For the specified year beginning with 1st April 2024, a billing authority’s
small business rate baseline amount is calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        J × K 2 K 1

3.3

For a subsequent specified year that is not a revaluation year, the small
business rate baseline amount is calculated in accordance with the formula—

        L × K 2 K 1

###### Small business rate baseline: revaluation year

4

If a specified year is a revaluation year, a billing authority’s small
business rate baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the
specified year is the amount calculated in accordance with the formula—

        L × M 2 × K 2 M 1 × K 1

###### Standard business rate baseline: non-revaluation year

5

5.1

If a specified year is not a revaluation year, a billing authority’s standard
business rate baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the
specified year is the amount calculated under sub-paragraph (2) or (3).

5.2

For the specified year beginning with 1st April 2024, a billing authority’s
standard business rate baseline amount is calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        N × P 2 P 1

5.3

For a subsequent specified year that is not a revaluation year, the standard
business rate baseline amount is calculated in accordance with the formula—

        Q × P 2 P 1

###### Standard business rate baseline: revaluation year

6

If a specified year is a revaluation year, a billing authority’s standard
business rate baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the
specified year is the amount calculated in accordance with the formula—

        Q × R 2 × P 2 R 1 × P 1

###### Total baseline

7

A billing authority’s total baseline amount in respect of a designated area
for the specified year is the sum of the small business rate baseline for the
specified year and the standard business rate baseline for the specified year.

###### Interpretation of Part 3

8

8.1

In this Part—

      J is the amount provided in column 4 of the table in Schedule 1 in
relation to the designated area;           K1 is the small business non-
domestic rating multiplier for the preceding year;           K2 is the small
business non-domestic rating multiplier for the specified year;           L is
the small business rate baseline amount in relation to the designated area
calculated for the preceding year;           M1 is the aggregate rateable
values shown in the billing authority’s local list for 31st March in the
preceding year for the hereditaments, other than those hereditaments to which
paragraph 2(2) applies—         that fall within the designated area, and
in respect of which “M” is “D” on 31st March in the preceding year pursuant to
paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA to the 1988 Act (interpretation) ;
M2 is the aggregate rateable values shown in the billing authority’s local
list for 1st April in the specified year for the hereditaments, other than
those hereditaments to which paragraph 2(2) applies—         that fall within
the designated area, and           in respect of which “M” is “D” on 1st April
in the specified year pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA to the 1988
Act;                 N is the amount provided in column 5 of the table in
Schedule 1 in relation to the designated area;           P1 is the non-
domestic rating multiplier for the preceding year;           P2 is the non-
domestic rating multiplier for the specified year;           Q is the standard
business rate baseline amount in relation to the designated area calculated
for the preceding year;           R1 is the aggregate rateable values shown in
the billing authority’s local list for 31st March in the preceding year for
the hereditaments, other than those hereditaments to which paragraph 2(2)
applies—         that fall within the designated area, and           in
respect of which “M” is “B” on 31st March in the preceding year pursuant to
paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA to the 1988 Act ;                 R2 is the
aggregate rateable values shown in the billing authority’s local list for 1st
April in the specified year for the hereditaments, other than those
hereditaments to which paragraph 2(2) applies, that—         fall within the
designated area, and           in respect of which “M” is “B” on 1st April in
the specified year pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA to the 1988
Act.

8.2

For the purposes of paragraphs 4 and 6 of this Schedule, the rateable value of
a hereditament shown in the billing authority’s local list for 31st March in
the preceding year is taken to be the rateable value that would have been
shown in that list for that day had the circumstances relating to that
hereditament been as they were on 1st April in the specified year.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations designate areas in England (“designated areas”) for the
purpose of paragraph 39(1) of Schedule 7B to the Local Government Finance Act
1988 (“ the 1988 Act ”) (local retention of non-domestic rates). They provide
rules for calculating in respect of a billing authority in England all or part
of whose area falls within a designated area—     a     the billing
authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of the designated area for a
specified year; and         b     the proportion of that non-domestic rating
income that is to be disregarded for the purpose of specified calculations
under Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.

  The calculations are to be made separately for each designated area within a
billing authority’s area.

  Regulation 3(1) and Schedule 1 designate the areas. Copies of the maps
referred to may be inspected free of charge by prior appointment with the
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities Business Rates Retention
Team at 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF and the principal office of the
billing authority.

  Regulation 3(2) and (3) provide that the designation of the areas takes
effect on 1st April 2024 and, depending on the area, will have effect for the
period of 25 or 24 years beginning with that date. The effect of specifying
the period of designation is to trigger paragraph 39(9) of Schedule 7B to the
1988 Act which prevents the revocation of the Regulations and certain kinds of
amendments to the Regulations until after the end of that period.

  Regulation 4 and Schedule 2 provide the rules for the calculations. Part 1
of Schedule 2 provides rules for calculating the proportion of non-domestic
rating income in respect of a designated area for a specified year that is to
be disregarded for specified calculations under Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.
The proportion is calculated by subtracting the baseline amount in respect of
the designated area for the specified year (calculated under Part 3 of
Schedule 2) from the non-domestic rating income in respect of that area for
that year (calculated under Part 2 of Schedule 2). Non-domestic rating income
in respect of a designated area for a specified year is essentially the
amounts payable to a billing authority under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988
Act for that year in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area,
subject to several adjustments.

  The total baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the specified
year beginning with 1st April 2024 is the sum of the amounts specified in
columns 4 and 5 of the table in Schedule 1 as uprated in accordance with the
formulae in paragraphs 3(2) and 5(2) of Schedule 2. The amounts in columns 4
and 5 of the table represent the existing non-domestic rating income for the
designated area, split by hereditaments subject to the small business non-
domestic rating multiplier and those subject to the non-domestic rating
multiplier. For each subsequent specified year, the baseline amount is an
uprated amount representing growth in the billing authority’s income in the
designated area.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument because it
amends an existing local tax regime. Publication of a full impact assessment
is not necessary for such legislation, but the impact assessment prepared for
the Local Government Finance Act  2012 (c. 17)  is relevant:

  https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/84
70/2054063.pdf

