Title: The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-06-25
Description: These Regulations further amend the Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 (S.R.1995 No. 95) (“the 1995 Regulations”), the Health and Social Services (Superannuation) (Additional Voluntary Contributions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999 (S.R.1999 No.294), the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (S.R. 2008 No.256) (“the 2008 Regulations”), the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (S.R. 2015 No. 120) (“the 2015 Regulations”), the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (S.R. 2015 No.122) (“the 2015 Transitional Regulations”), the Health and Social Care (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (S.R. 2023 No.33) and the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Partial Retirement etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 (S.R. 2024 No. 50).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/117

## The Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Health And Personal Social Services   Public Sector Pensions

  Made   2 1st May 2024

  Coming into operation  - -   12th June 2024

      The Department of Health makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 12(1), (2) and (3), and (14)(1) and (2) of,
and Schedule 3 to the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 (“ the 1972
Order ”) and sections 1 (1) and (2)(e), 2(1) and 3(1) to (3) of, and paragraph
5 of Schedule 2 and Schedule 3 to, the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern
Ireland) 2014  (“ the 2014 Act ”).       In accordance with Article 12(4) of
the 1972 Order and section 21(1) of the 2014 Act, the Department of Health has
consulted such persons as appear to the Department of Health likely to be
affected by these Regulations.       In accordance with section 22(2)(b) of
the 2014 Act, the Department of Health has laid a report before the Assembly.
In accordance with Article 12(1) of the 1972 Order and section 3(5) of the
2014 Act, these Regulations are made with the consent of the Department of
Finance.

#### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes
(Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 12th June 2024 and have effect from
1st April 2024 with the exception of regulation 25(3)(a), (c), (d) and (e)
which has effect from 1st April 2015.

### Amendments to the Health and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995

#### General

2

The Heath and Personal Social Services (Superannuation) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1995  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 2

3

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the appropriate places insert—

“ lump sum and death benefit allowance ” in relation to a person, has the
meaning given in section 637R of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act
2003

;

“ salary sacrifice arrangement ” means an arrangement under which the member
gives up the right to receive an amount of superannuable pay in return for the
provision of a benefit in kind including, but not limited to, a benefit
consisting of a motor car or other vehicle, meals, care or vouchers;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 11A

4

In regulation 11A (further contributions by employing authorities in respect
of excessive pay increases) , in paragraph (21) omit sub-paragraph (i).

#### Amendment of regulation 16A

5

5.1

Regulation 16A (partial retirement pension)  is amended as follows.

5.2

In paragraph (1)—

5.2.a

after the first occurrence of “superannuable employment”, insert  “or who is a
non-superannuable 1995 Section member” ;

5.2.b

in sub-paragraph (a)(iii), after the first occurrence of “superannuable
employment”, insert  “for the purposes of the 2015 Scheme” ;

5.2.c

in sub-paragraph (c), after “is reduced”, insert  “(disregarding any reduction
in superannuable pay resulting from the member entering into a salary
sacrifice arrangement)” .

5.3

In paragraph (2), after all three occurrences of “superannuable employment”,
insert  “for the purposes of the 2015 Scheme” .

5.4

In paragraph (7)(b), for “lifetime allowance”, substitute  “lump sum and death
benefit allowance” .

5.5

After paragraph (11), insert—

5.5.11A

For the purposes of this regulation, in the case of a non-superannuable 1995
Section member, “ superannuable pay ” means the member’s superannuable
earnings for the purposes of the 2015 Scheme.

5.6

In paragraph (12), at the appropriate place, insert—

“ Non-superannuable 1995 Section member ” has the same meaning as in
regulation 2 of the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and
Consequential Provisions) Regulations 2015 ;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 16B

6

6.1

Regulation 16B (1) (increase in superannuable pay following exercise of option
under regulation 16A)   is amended as follows.

6.2

In sub-paragraph (b), after “is increased”, insert  “(disregarding any
increase in superannuable pay resulting from the member leaving a salary
sacrifice arrangement)” .

6.3

In sub-paragraph (c), after “is reduced” insert  “(disregarding any reduction
in superannuable pay resulting from the member entering into a salary
sacrifice arrangement)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 16C

7

7.1

Regulation 16C (application of regulations 16A and 16B with modifications
where concurrent part-time employments held)  is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph (1), after “superannuable employment”, insert  “in the 2015
scheme” .

7.3

In paragraph (3), after “is reduced”, insert  “(disregarding any reduction in
superannuable pay resulting from the member entering into a salary sacrifice
arrangement)” .

7.4

In paragraph (5), after “is increased”, insert  “(disregarding any increase in
superannuable pay resulting from the member leaving a salary sacrifice
arrangement)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 85

8

8.1

Regulation 85 (reduction of pension on return to HSC employment) is amended as
follows.

8.2

In paragraph (1A)  —

8.2.a

in sub-paragraph (b)(iii)—

8.2.a.i

for “paragraph (c) applies”, substitute  “regulation 75(3)(b) (nurses,
physiotherapists, midwives and health visitors) or regulation 76(9) (mental
health officers) applies to the member” ;

8.2.a.ii

substitute “,or” with “.”;

8.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (c).

8.3

In paragraph (3), omit “or (c)”.

##### Amendment of regulation 11

9

In the Health and Social Services (Superannuation) (Additional Voluntary
Contributions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999,  in regulation 11
(retirement and dependants’ benefits), after paragraph (1)(d), insert—

;

9.e

a pension commencement excess lump sum referred to in section 166(1)(aa) of
the 2004 Act .

.

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008

#### General

10

The Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2008  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 6

11

In regulation 6 (interpretation: general), at the appropriate places, insert—

“ lump sum and death benefit allowance ” in relation to a person, has the
meaning given in section 637R of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act
2003

;

“ salary sacrifice arrangement ” means an arrangement under which the member
gives up the right to receive an amount of pensionable pay in return for the
provision of a benefit in kind including, but not limited to, a benefit
consisting of a motor car or other vehicle, meals, care or vouchers;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 49

12

12.1

Regulation 49 (partial retirement (members aged at least 55))  is amended as
follows.

12.2

In paragraph (1)—

12.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “or a non-contributing member”, substitute  “of the
2015 scheme” .

12.2.b

in sub-paragraph (d), after “is reduced”, insert “(disregarding any reduction
in pensionable pay resulting from the member entering into a salary sacrifice
arrangement)”.

12.3

In paragraph (2), after each occurrence of “active member”, insert  “of the
2015 Scheme” .

12.4

In paragraph (6)(a)(ii), for “lifetime allowance”, substitute  “lump sum and
death benefit allowance” .

12.5

In paragraph (9)(b), after “service”, insert  “in the 2015 scheme” .

12.6

After paragraph (9) insert—

12.6.9A

For the purposes of this regulation, in the case of a non-contributing member,
“ pensionable pay ” means the member’s pensionable earnings for the purposes
of the 2015 Scheme.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 50

13

13.1

Regulation 50(1) (increase in pensionable pay following exercise of option
under regulation 49) is amended as follows.

13.2

In sub-paragraph (b), after “is increased”, insert  “(disregarding any
increase in pensionable pay resulting from the member leaving a salary
sacrifice arrangement)” .

13.3

In sub-paragraph (c), after “is reduced”, insert  “(disregarding any reduction
in pensionable pay resulting from the member entering into a salary sacrifice
arrangement)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 51

14

14.1

Regulation 51 (application of regulations 49 and 50 where concurrent part-time
employments held)  is amended as follows

14.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for “or a non-contributing member”, substitute  “of the
2015 scheme” .

14.3

In paragraph (3), after “is reduced”, insert  “(disregarding any reduction in
pensionable pay resulting from the member entering into a salary sacrifice
arrangement)” .

14.4

In paragraph (5), after “is increased”, insert  “(disregarding any increase in
pensionable pay resulting from the member ending a salary sacrifice
arrangement)”

#### Amendment of regulation 137

15

In regulation 137 (interpretation of Part 3: general), at the appropriate
place, insert—

“ lump sum and death benefit allowance ” in relation to a person, has the
meaning given in section 637R of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act
2003;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 180

16

16.1

Regulation 180 (partial retirement (members aged at least 55))  is amended as
follows.

16.2

In paragraph (1)(a), for “or a non-contributing member”, substitute  “of the
2015 scheme” .

16.3

In paragraph (5)(a)(ii), for “lifetime allowance”, substitute  “lump sum and
death benefit allowance” .

#### Amendment of regulation 181

17

In regulation 181(4) (increase in level of engagement following exercise of
option under regulation 180), for “or a non-contributing member of this
Section of the Scheme”, substitute  “of the 2015 Scheme” .

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

18

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment of regulation 21

19

—In Regulation 21 (absence from work)  after paragraph (1)(e) omit “, or”.

#### Amendment of regulation 30

20

20.1

Regulation 30 (members’ contributions: employees) is amended as follows.

20.2

In paragraph (3)—

20.2.a

for “year 2022/23 (from 1 November 2022) and scheme year 2023/24 and each
subsequent scheme year” substitute  “years 2024/25 to 2027/28” ;

20.2.b

for the table, substitute—

Table Scheme Years 2024/25 to 2027/28 Column 1 Column 2 Pensionable earnings
band Contribution percentage rate Up to £13,259 5.2% £13,260 to £26,831 6.5%
£26,832 to £32,691 8.3% £32,692 to £49,078 9.8% £49,079 to £62,924 10.7%
£62,925 and above 12.5%

.

20.3

In paragraph (3A)—

20.3.a

for “year 2022/2023 (from 1 November 2022) and scheme year 2023/24 and each
subsequent scheme year” substitute  “years 2024/25 to 2027/28” ;

20.3.b

for the table, substitute—

Table Scheme Years 2024/25 to 2027/28 Column 1 Column 2 Pensionable earnings
band Contribution percentage rate Up to £13,259 5.2% £13,260 to £26,831 6.5%
£26,832 to £32,691 8.3% £32,692 to £49,078 9.8% £49,079 to £62,924 10.7%
£62,925 and above 12.5%

.

20.4

After paragraph (6), insert—

20.4.7

The figures in column 1 of the tables in paragraph (3) and (3A) (except for
the figures £13,259 and £13,260) are to be increased at the beginning of each
scheme year starting with the scheme year 2025/26, and ending with (and
including) scheme year 2027/28, if there is a relevant increase in the
consumer price index for that scheme year, by the appropriate percentage for
the scheme year rounded up to the nearest £1.

20.4.8

For the purposes of paragraph (7)—

20.4.8.a

there is a relevant increase in the consumer prices index for a scheme year if
the consumer prices index for the month of September before that scheme year
is higher than that for the previous September;

20.4.8.b

the appropriate percentage for the scheme year is the same percentage as any
percentage increase in the consumer prices index over the period specified by
sub-paragraph (a);

20.4.8.c

the “ consumer price index ” means the general index of consumer prices (for
all items) published by the Statistics Board, a body corporate established by
section 1 of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007 ;

20.4.8.d

where there is a relevant increase after the 1 st  April 2025, the figures to
be increased on the relevant date are the figures applicable to the previous
scheme year.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 31

21

21.1

Regulation 31 (members’ contributions: practitioners and non-GP providers)  is
amended as follows.

21.2

In paragraph (9)—

21.2.a

after subparagraph (b), insert—

;

21.2.a.c

in respect of the scheme years 2024/25 to 2027/28, Table 3

.

21.2.b

after table 2, insert—

Table 3 Scheme Years 2024/25 to 2027/28 Column 1 Column 2 Pensionable earnings
band Contribution percentage rate Up to £13,259 5.2% £13,260 to £26,831 6.5%
£26,832 to £32,691 8.3% £32,692 to £49,078 9.8% £49,079 to £62,924 10.7%
£62,925 and above 12.5%

.

21.3

After paragraph (10), insert—

21.3.11

The figures in column 1 of Table 3 (except the figures £13,259 and £13,260)
are to be increased at the beginning of each scheme year starting with the
scheme year 2025/26 and ending with (and including) scheme year 2027/28, if
there is a relevant increase in the consumer prices index for that scheme
year, by the appropriate percentage for the scheme year rounded up to the
nearest £1.

21.3.12

For the purposes of paragraph (11)—

21.3.12.a

there is a relevant increase in the consumer prices index for a scheme year if
the consumer prices index for the month of September before that scheme year
is higher than that for the previous September;

21.3.12.b

the appropriate percentage for the scheme year is the same percentage as any
percentage increase in the consumer prices index over the period specified by
sub-paragraph (a);

21.3.12.c

the “ consumer prices index ” means the general index of consumer prices (for
all items) published by the Statistics Board, a body corporate established by
section 1 of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007;

21.3.12.d

where there is a relevant increase after the 1 st  April 2025, the figures to
be increased on the relevant date are the figures applicable to the previous
scheme year.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 83

22

22.1

Regulation 83 (election for partial retirement (members over normal retirement
age)) is amended as follows.

22.2

In paragraph (2)(a), after “reduced”, insert  “(disregarding any reduction in
pensionable earnings resulting from the member entering into a salary
sacrifice arrangement)” .

22.3

In paragraph (5)(a)(ii), for “life-time allowance”, substitute  “lump sum and
death benefit allowance” .

#### Amendment of regulation 85

23

In regulation 85(2)(a) (terms of employment improve after election), after
“increased”, insert  “(disregarding any increase in pensionable earnings
resulting from the member leaving a salary sacrifice arrangement)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 88

24

24.1

Regulation 88 (application of regulations 83 to 87: concurrent employments) is
amended as follows.

24.2

In paragraph (3), after “reduced”, insert  “(disregarding any reduction in
pensionable earnings resulting from the member entering into a salary
sacrifice arrangement)” .

24.3

In paragraph (4), after “increased”, insert  “(disregarding any increase in
pensionable earnings resulting from the member leaving a salary sacrifice
arrangement)” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 13

25

25.1

Schedule 13 (definitions) is amended as follows.

25.2

For the entry in Column 2 corresponding to the expression “over time”,
substitute—

any period of time worked in excess of— whole-time, according to the terms of
the member’s employment contract; or the terms of the member’s employment
contract, during the period of 12 months following the election for partial
retirement made under regulation 83.

.

25.3

At the appropriate places, insert

25.3.a

“adoption leave” and for the corresponding entry in column 2 “has the meaning
given in regulation 2(1) of the Paternity and Adoption Leave Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2002 ”;

25.3.b

“lump sum and death benefit allowance” and for the corresponding entry in
column 2 “in relation to a person, has the meaning given in section 637R of
the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 ”;

25.3.c

“maternity leave” and for the corresponding entry in column 2 “ordinary
maternity leave or additional maternity leave as defined in regulation 2(1) of
the Maternity and Parental Leave etc. Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999 ”;

25.3.d

“parental leave” and for the corresponding entry in column 2 “leave under
regulation 2(1) of the Maternity and Parental Leave etc. Regulations (Northern
Ireland) “1999”;

25.3.e

“paternity leave” and for the corresponding entry in column 2 “has the meaning
given in regulation 4 or 8 of the Paternity and Adoption Leave Regulations
(Northern Ireland) “2002” ;”

25.3.f

“salary sacrifice arrangement” and for the corresponding entry in column 2 “an
arrangement under which the member gives up the right to receive an amount of
pensionable earnings in return for the provision of a benefit in kind
including, but not limited to, a benefit consisting of a motor car or other
vehicle, meals, care or vouchers”.

### Amendments to the Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

#### General

26

The Health and Social Care Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential
Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  are amended in accordance
with this Part.

#### 

27

In regulation 2 (interpretation) at the appropriate place, insert—

“ lump sum and death benefit allowance ” in relation to a person, has the
meaning given in section 637R of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act
2003 .

.

#### Amendment of regulation 31

28

In regulation 31 (partial retirement)  in paragraph (3)(b), for “lifetime
allowance”, substitute  “lump sum and death benefit allowance” .

#### Amendment of regulation 35A

29

29.1

Regulation 35A (variations to lump sums for 1995 and 2008 pensioners joining
new scheme) (pensioners who have taken a partial retirement pension)   is
amended as follows.

29.2

In paragraph (2)—

29.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a), after “if the member”, insert  “is not a non-pensionable
old scheme member and” , and at the end of the paragraph, omit  “and” ;

29.2.b

after sub-paragraph (b), insert—

29.2.b.aa

paragraph (3A) if the member is a non-pensionable old scheme member and has
taken an old scheme partial retirement pension but has not taken a new scheme
partial retirement pension;

.

29.3

After paragraph (3), insert—

29.3.3A

Where paragraph (2)(aa) applies, the lump sum is an amount equal to the
appropriate fraction of either—

29.3.3A.a

the lump sum on death found in column 2 of Part 1 of Table 2 (non-pensionable
old scheme member entitlements) in regulation 38(1A)(death in service)  if the
member is a non-pensionable 1995 Section member; or

29.3.3A.b

the lump sum on death found in column 2 of Part 2 of that Table if the member
is a non-pensionable 2008 Section member.

.

#### Omission of regulation 37

30

Omit regulation 37 (abatement: special classes).

### Amendment to the Health and Social Care (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

#### Amendment of regulation 28

31

In the Health and Social Care (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
, for regulation 28 (expiry of modifications in this Part) (including the
heading), substitute—

######## Application and expiry of modifications in this Part

31.28

The modifications in this Part apply only—

31.28.a

for the purposes of members’ contributions payable under the Health and Social
Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 in respect of the
scheme year 2022/23;

31.28.b

until the end of 31 st  March 2025.

.

### Amendment to the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Partial Retirement etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

#### Amendment of regulation 32

32

In the Health and Social Care Pension Schemes (Partial Retirement etc.)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024  (amendment of regulation 10A) omit
regulation 32 (amendment of regulation 10A).

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 21st May
2024.       (L.S.)   Philip Rodgers   A senior officer of the Department of
Health           The Department of Finance consents to the foregoing
Regulations.       Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance
on 21st May 2024.       (L.S.)   Patrick Neeson   A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations further amend the Health and Personal Social Services
(Superannuation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 ( S.R.1995 No. 95 ) (“
the 1995 Regulations ”), the Health and Social Services (Superannuation)
(Additional Voluntary Contributions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999 (
S.R.1999 No.294 ), the Health and Social Care (Pension Scheme) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2008 ( S.R. 2008 No.256 ) (“ the 2008 Regulations ”), the
Health and Social Care Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (
S.R. 2015 No. 120 ) (“ the 2015 Regulations ”), the Health and Social Care
Pension Scheme (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. 2015 No.122 ) (“ the 2015 Transitional
Regulations ”), the Health and Social Care (Amendment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 ( S.R. 2023 No.33 ) and the Health and Social Care Pension
Schemes (Partial Retirement etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 ( S.R.
2024 No. 50 ).

  These Regulations come into operation on 12th June 2024, although regulation
1(2) provides for certain provisions to have effect from an earlier date, 1st
April 2015. Section 3(3)(b) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern
Ireland)  2014 (c. 2)  provides that Scheme Regulations may make retrospective
provision.

  Regulations 3 and 4 amend the 1995 Regulations to make provision regarding
definitions.

  Regulations 5, 6 and 7 make provision regarding partial retirement in the
1995 Scheme in two ways. Firstly, regulations 5(2)(a) and (b), (3), (5) and
(6), and regulation 7(2) ensure that members of the 1995 Scheme who have
reached maximum service are able to access partial retirement with respect to
their 1995 Scheme benefits. Secondly, regulations 5(2)(c), 6, 7(3) and (4)
ensure that the effect on superannuable pay of entering into or leaving a
salary sacrifice arrangement is disregarded for partial retirement purposes.

  Regulations 5(4) amends the 1995 Regulations to reflect changes made by the
Finance Act 2024, in removing the lifetime allowance and replacing this with
the lump sum and death benefit allowance. The 2008, 2015 and Transitional
Regulations are amended to similar effect by regulations 12(4), 16(3), 22(3)
and 28 respectively.

  Regulations 8 and 30 amend the 1995 Regulations and the Transitional
Regulations respectively to remove special class abatement.

  Regulation 9 amends the 1999 Regulations to reflect the changes made by the
Finance Act 2024 to include a pension commencement excess lump sum as an
optional payment, having received proceeds from an investment made under
regulation 7(1), 8(2) or 9(4) of the 1999 Regulations.

  Regulation 11 and 15 amend the 2008 Regulations to make provision regarding
definitions.

  Regulation 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17 make provision regarding partial retirement
in the 2008 Scheme in two ways. Firstly, regulations 12(2)(a), (3), (5) and
(6), 14(2), 16(2) and 17 ensure that members of the 2008 Scheme who have
reached maximum service are able to access partial retirement with respect to
their 2008 Scheme benefits. Secondly, regulations 12(2)(b), 13, 14(3) and (4)
ensure that the effect on pensionable earnings of entering into or leaving a
salary sacrifice is disregarded for partial retirement purposes.

  Regulation 19 corrects a pre-existing error in the 2015 Regulations.

  Regulations 20 and 21 update member contribution provisions to reflect the
start of scheme years 2024/25 to 2027/28. Regulation 20 updates the tables in
paragraph (3) and 3(A) of regulation 30 (members’ contributions: employees),
which set out pensionable earnings bands and contribution rates, to reflect
scheme years 2024/25 to 2027/28. Regulation 21 inserts table 3 in regulation
31 (members’ contributions: practitioners and non-GP providers) which sets out
the pensionable earnings bands and contribution rates for year 2024/25 to
2027/28. Regulations 20 and 21 also introduce an automatic increase to the
pensionable earnings bands in column 1 of the tables in paragraph (3) and (3A)
of regulation 30 and regulation 31, from scheme year 2025/26 and ending with
(and including) scheme year 2027/28, where there is an increase in the
consumer price index for that scheme year.

  Regulations 22, 23 and 24 ensure that the effect on pensionable earnings of
entering or leaving a salary sacrifice arrangement is disregarded for partial
retirement purposes in the 2015 Scheme.

  Regulation 25 makes provision regarding definitions, notably by amending the
definition of overtime. Regulations 30(3)(a), (c), (d) and (e) correct
omissions in the 2015 Regulations.

  Regulation 27 amends the Transitional Regulations by making provision
regarding definitions.

  Regulation 29 makes provision for the calculation of lump sums on death with
regards to non-pensionable old scheme members who have partially retired with
respect to their 1995 or 2008 Scheme benefits.

  Regulation 31 amends  S.R. 2023 No.33  to extend the temporary modifications
made by that statutory rule.

  Regulation 32 amends  S.R. 2024 No.50  to correct a pre-existing error.

