Title: The Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-10-16
Description: These regulations make amendments to the Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) Regulations 2006 and make provision to place the guidance, provided by the Board, to Selected Medical Practitioners (SMP) and Independent Medical Referees (IMR) to carry out injury on duty assessments, on a statutory footing.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/147

## The Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2024

Police

Made 27th June 2024

Coming into operation 2nd July 2024

The Department of Justice makes the following Regulations under sections
25(1), 25(2)(k), 26(1) and 26(2)(g) of the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 1998
and Articles 14 and 15 of the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 .
In accordance with section 25(9)(a) of the 1998 Act, the Department of Justice
has invited the views of the Police Advisory Board for England and Wales. In
accordance with sections 25(8) and 26(6) of the 1998 Act it has consulted both
the Board and the Police Association. In accordance with section 72(2A)  of
the 1998 Act, the Department of Finance  has consented to the making of these
Regulations.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Police Service of Northern Ireland and
Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) (Amendment) (No.
2) Regulations 2024.

2

These Regulations shall come into operation on 2nd July 2024 but regulation 6
shall have effect from 1st April 2021.

### Revocation of the Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) (Amendment) Regulations 2024

3

The Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland
Reserve (Injury Benefit) (Amendment) Regulations 2024  are revoked.

### Amendment of the Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) Regulations 2006

4

The Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service of Northern Ireland
Reserve (Injury Benefit) Regulations 2006  are amended in accordance with
regulations 5 to 10.

### Pensionable and average pensionable pay and aggregate pension contributions

5

In regulation 3 (pensionable and average pensionable pay and aggregate pension
contributions) at paragraph (A1)  for “the 198 scheme” substitute  “the 1988
scheme” .

### Members with 2015 scheme service

6

In regulation 3A (members with 2015 scheme service)  at paragraph (5)(b) in
the formula for “A x AP” substitute  “P x AP” .

### Permanent disablement in relation to a 2015 scheme member

7

In regulation 6A (permanent disablement in relation to a 2015 scheme member) –

7.1

in the title for “Permeant” substitute  “Permanent” ;

7.2

for paragraph (2) substitute–

7.2.2

The person is disabled for the purpose of these Regulations if the person is
medically unfit within the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 6 (retirement pensions
payable on grounds of permanent medical unfitness: general) of the 2015
Regulations.;

. and—

7.3

for paragraph (4) substitute–

7.3.4

In the case of a person who is totally disabled for the purpose of these
Regulations, paragraph (3) has effect, for the purpose of regulations 11 and
20 of these Regulations, as if the reference to the person’s disability being
likely to be permanent were a reference to the total disablement of that
person being likely to be permanent.

.

### Abatement of certain gratuities in respect of gratuities otherwise payable

8

In regulation 21 (abatement of certain gratuities in respect of gratuities
otherwise payable) at paragraph (2)(a)(iii)  for “sums” substitute  “sum” .

### Reference of medical questions

9

In regulation 29 (reference of medical questions)–

9.1

in paragraph (2) for “or regulation 781,84” substitute  “or regulation 78, 84”
; and

9.2

after paragraph (6) insert—

9.2.7

An SMP or IMR must have regard to the provisions of the Guidance to Medical
Practitioners on Injury on Duty Awards to SMPs and IMRs at all times.

.

### Schedule 1 glossary of expressions

10

In Schedule 1 (glossary of expressions)–

10.1

after ““disablement” and cognate expressions have the meanings assigned to
them by regulation 6;”; insert

“ duly qualified medical practitioner ” means a registered medical
practitioner who holds– the minimum of Associate of the Faculty of the
Occupational Medicine or the Equivalent EEA or Swiss qualification; or any
other equivalent qualification acceptable to the Board; and a current
registration with the General Medical Council or equivalent regulatory body in
the EEA or Switzerland; or an equivalent registration with an appropriate
regulatory body in relation to their equivalent qualification; “ Guidance to
Medical Practitioner on Injury on Duty Awards to SMPs and IMRs ” means the
guidance provided by the Board to duly qualified medical practitioners when
considering eligibility for an Injury on Duty Award;

;

10.2

after ““ husband ” includes wife;”; insert—

“ Independent Medical Referee ” (“ IMR ”) means a duly qualified medical
practitioner appointed by the Department of Justice under regulation 30(2);

10.3

after ““ the Scheme actuary ” means the actuary for the time being appointed
by the Secretary of State to provide a consulting service on actuarial matters
relevant to these Regulations;” insert—

Selected Medical Practitioner” (“ SMP ”) means a duly qualified medical
practitioner selected by the Board or Chief Constable of the Police Service of
Northern Ireland under regulation 29(2).

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 27th June 2024.
(L.S.) Naomi Long Minister of Justice Sealed with the Official Seal of the
Department of Finance on 27th June 2024 (L.S.) Patrick Neeson A senior officer
of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These regulations make amendments to the Police Service of Northern Ireland
and Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) Regulations
2006 and make provision to place the guidance, provided by the Board, to
Selected Medical Practitioners (SMP) and Independent Medical Referees (IMR) to
carry out injury on duty assessments, on a statutory footing.

Regulation 3 revokes the Police Service of Northern Ireland and Police Service
of Northern Ireland Reserve (Injury Benefit) (Amendment) Regulations 2024
whilst made were not laid and so do not have an S.R. number.

