Title: The Building (Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-05-30
Description: These Regulations revoke, in relation to England, the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 (S.I. 2010/2215) (“the AI Regulations”) with the amendments to those Regulations made by S.I. 2015/767, 2016/285, 2021/1391, 2021/1392, 2022/718 and 2023/906. They also revoke and include in this instrument provisions relating to the registration and review in regulations 3 to 5 of the Building (Approved Inspectors, Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023 (S.I. 2023/906).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/110

## The Building (Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   28th January 2024

  Laid before Parliament   1st February 2024

  Coming into force - -   6th April 2024

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 1(1), 2A, 34, 35(2), 35B(7), 47(1) to (5),
50(1A), (1D), (4), (6), (7) and (7A), 51(1) and (2), 51A(2), (3), (5) and (6),
52(1), (2), (3), (5A) and (7), 52A(1), (2) and (4), 53(2), (4), (4B), (4C) and
(7), 53A(6), 53B(5), 53C(3), 53D(2), (3) and (5), 56(1), 58C(5), 58O(4),
58U(4), 58V(4) and 92(2) of, and paragraphs 1, 1A, 1D, 1F, 1G, 1I, 5B, 7, 8
and 10 of Schedule 1 to, the Building Act 1984  and sections 25(1) to (3) and
(7), 41 and 166(1) of the Building Safety Act 2022 .           In accordance
with section 120B(3) of the Building Act 1984  and section 7(4) of the
Building Safety Act 2022, the Secretary of State has consulted the building
safety regulator and such other persons as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

### General

#### Citation, extent, application and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building (Registered Building Control
Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in England only.

1.3

These Regulations come into force on 6th April 2024.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1984 Act ” means the Building Act 1984;           “ the 2022 Act ”
means the Building Safety Act 2022;           “ the 2010 Regulations ” means
the Building Regulations 2010 ;           “ application for building control
approval with full plans ” has the same meaning as given in the 2010
Regulations;           “ approver ” means a registered building control
approver ;           “ building ” has the same meaning as given in the 2010
Regulations;           “ building work ” has the same meaning as given in the
2010 Regulations;           “ controlled service or fitting ” means a service
or fitting in relation to which Part G, H, J or L of Schedule 1 to the 2010
Regulations imposes a requirement;           “ dwelling-house ” does not
include a flat or a building containing a flat;           “flat” means
separate and self-contained premises constructed or adapted for use for
residential purposes and forming part of a building from some other part of
which it is divided horizontally;           “ FSO building ” has the meaning
given in regulation 9 (consultation with the fire and rescue authority);
“ material alteration ” has the same meaning as given in the 2010 Regulations;
“ material change of use ” has the same meaning as given in the 2010
Regulations;           “new dwelling” includes a dwelling that is formed by a
material change of use of a building within the meaning of regulation 5(a),
(b) or (g) of the 2010 Regulations;           “ optional requirement ” has the
meaning given in regulation 2(1) of the 2010 Regulations;           “ relevant
day ” means any day excluding Christmas Day, Good Friday or a day which is a
bank holiday in England and Wales under section 1 of the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971;           “ working day ” means any period of 24 hours
commencing at midnight and excludes Saturdays, Sundays, Christmas Day, Good
Friday or a day which is a bank holiday in England and Wales under section 1
of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

2.2

In these Regulations “client”, “contractor”, “designer”, “domestic client”,
“principal contractor”, “ principal designer ”, “ sole contractor ” and “ sole
or lead designer ” have the meanings given in the 2010 Regulations.

2.3

Where any provision in these Regulations requires the use of a numbered form
in Schedule 1, a form substantially to the like effect may be used.

2.4

Any reference in these Regulations to the carrying out of work includes a
reference to the making of a material change of use.

2.5

Any reference in these Regulations to an initial notice  (whether or not
combined with a plans certificate ) is to be construed as a reference to that
initial notice as amended by an amendment notice  which has been accepted by a
local authority.

### Registered building control approvers

#### Independence of approvers

3

3.1

Approvers must have no professional or financial interest in the work they
supervise.

3.2

A person (“ P ”) is regarded as having a professional or financial interest in
the work described in any notice or certificate given under these Regulations
if—

3.2.a

P is or has been responsible for the design or construction of any of the work
in any capacity,

3.2.b

P or any nominee of P’s is a member, officer or employee of a company or other
body which has a professional or financial interest in the work, or

3.2.c

P is a partner or is in the employment of a person who has a professional or
financial interest in the work.

3.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

3.3.a

P is treated as having a professional or financial interest in the work even
if P has that interest only as trustee for the benefit of some other person,

3.3.b

in the case of married persons or civil partners living together, the interest
of one spouse or partner is, if known to the other, deemed to be also an
interest of the other.

3.4

For the purposes of this regulation the following are not to be regarded as a
professional or financial interest—

3.4.a

involvement in the work as an approver,

3.4.b

entitlement to any fee paid for P’s function as an approver,

3.4.c

entitlement to any fee paid for an employee of P carrying out a function as a
registered building inspector , and

3.4.d

potential liability to pay any sum if a claim is made under the insurance
cover provided for the purposes of the 1984 Act.

#### Functions of approvers

4

4.1

For so long as an initial notice continues in force, the approver who gave the
notice must take such steps (which may include the making of tests of building
work and the taking of samples of material) as are reasonable to enable the
approver to be satisfied within the limits of professional skill and care that
the provisions specified in paragraph (2) (as modified by regulation 5
(modifications of 2010 Regulations etc.)) are complied with.

4.2

The provisions referred to in paragraph (1) are—

4.2.a

in the 2010 Regulations—

4.2.a.i

regulation 4 (requirements relating to building work),

4.2.a.ii

regulation 6 (requirements relating to material change of use),

4.2.a.iii

regulation 7 (materials and workmanship),

4.2.a.iv

Part 2A (dutyholders and competence),

4.2.a.v

regulation 20 (provisions applicable to self-certification schemes),

4.2.a.vi

regulation 20A (provisions applicable to third party certification schemes),

4.2.a.vii

regulation 22 (requirements relating to a change to energy status),

4.2.a.viii

regulation 23 (requirements relating to thermal elements),

4.2.a.ix

regulation 25A (consideration of high-efficiency alternative systems for new
buildings),

4.2.a.x

regulation 26 (CO 2  emission rates for new buildings),

4.2.a.xi

regulation 26A (fabric energy efficiency rates for new buildings),

4.2.a.xii

regulation 26C (target primary energy rates for new buildings),

4.2.a.xiii

regulation 27 (CO 2  emission rate calculations),

4.2.a.xiv

regulation 27A (fabric energy efficiency rate calculations),

4.2.a.xv

regulation 27C (target primary energy rate calculations for new buildings),

4.2.a.xvi

regulation 28 (consequential improvements to energy performance),

4.2.a.xvii

regulation 36 (water efficiency of new dwellings),

4.2.a.xviii

regulation 37 (wholesome water consumption calculation  ) ,

4.2.a.xix

regulation 38 (fire safety information),

4.2.a.xx

regulation 39 (information about ventilation),

4.2.a.xxi

regulation 40 (information about use of fuel and power),

4.2.a.xxii

regulation 40A (information about systems for on-site generation of
electricity),

4.2.a.xxiii

regulation 40B (information about overheating),

4.2.a.xxiv

regulation 41 (sound insulation testing),

4.2.a.xxv

regulation 42 (mechanical ventilation air flow rate testing),

4.2.a.xxvi

regulation 43 (pressure testing),

4.2.a.xxvii

regulation 44 (commissioning),

4.2.a.xxviii

regulation 44ZA (commissioning in respect of a system for on-site electricity
generation),

4.2.a.xxix

regulation 44D (application of paragraph S1 of Schedule 1),

4.2.a.xxx

regulation 44E (application of paragraph S2 of Schedule 1),

4.2.a.xxxi

regulation 44F (application of paragraph S3 of Schedule 1),

4.2.a.xxxii

regulation 44G (application of paragraph S4 of Schedule 1),

4.2.a.xxxiii

regulation 44H (application of paragraph S5 of Schedule 1),

4.2.a.xxxiv

regulation 44I (application of paragraph S6 of Schedule 1),

4.2.a.xxxv

regulation 44J (minimum standards of an electric vehicle charge point), and

4.2.b

in the Energy Performance of Buildings (England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ,
regulation 7A (energy performance certificates on construction).

#### Modifications of 2010 Regulations etc.

5

5.1

The 2010 Regulations apply with the modifications in paragraphs (2) to (11).

5.2

Subject to paragraph (3), regulations 20 (provisions applicable to self-
certification schemes), 20A (provisions applicable to third party
certification schemes), 25A (consideration of high-efficiency alternative
systems for new buildings), 42 (mechanical ventilation air flow rate testing)
and 43 (pressure testing) apply in relation to building work which is the
subject of an initial notice as if references to the building control
authority were references to the approver.

5.3

The modification in paragraph (2) does not apply to the reference to building
control authority in regulation 20(6A), 20A(7A), 25A(3A), 42(4) or 43(6).

5.4

Regulation 27 (CO 2  emission rate calculations) applies in relation to
building work which is the subject of an initial notice as if—

5.4.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 27(4A),
were references to the approver, and

5.4.b

in paragraph (3), after “work has been completed,” there were inserted  “or,
if earlier, the date on which, in accordance with regulation 19 (events
causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of the Building (Registered
Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, the initial
notice ceases to be in force” .

5.5

Regulation 27A (fabric energy efficiency rate calculations) applies in
relation to building work which is the subject of an initial notice as if—

5.5.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 27A(4A),
were references to the approver, and

5.5.b

in paragraph (3), after “work has been completed,” there were inserted  “or,
if earlier, the date on which, in accordance with regulation 19 (events
causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of the Building (Registered
Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, the initial
notice ceases to be in force” .

5.6

Regulation 27C (target primary energy rate calculations for new buildings)
applies in relation to building work which is the subject of an initial notice
as if—

5.6.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 27C(4A),
were references to the approver, and

5.6.b

in paragraph (3), after “work has been completed,” there were inserted  “or,
if earlier, the date on which, in accordance with regulation 19 (events
causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of the Building (Registered
Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, the initial
notice ceases to be in force” .

5.7

Regulation 37 (wholesome water consumption calculation) applies in relation to
building work which is the subject of an initial notice as if—

5.7.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 37(3), were
references to the approver, and

5.7.b

in paragraph (2), after “work has been completed” there were inserted  “, or,
if earlier, the date on which, in accordance with regulation 19 (events
causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of the Building (Registered
Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, the initial
notice ceases to be in force” .

5.8

Regulation 38 (fire safety information) applies in relation to building work
which is the subject of an initial notice as if—

5.8.a

references to the relevant authority were references to the approver, and

5.8.b

for paragraph (2) there were substituted—

5.8.b.2

The person carrying out the work must give the fire safety information to the
responsible person no later than—

5.8.b.2.a

the date of completion of the work to which the initial notice relates;

5.8.b.2.b

the date of occupation of the building or extension;

5.8.b.2.c

the date on which, in accordance with regulation 19 (events causing initial
notice to cease to be in force) of the Building (Registered Building Control
Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, the initial notice ceases to be in
force,

whichever is the earlier.

.

5.9

Regulation 41 (sound insulation testing) applies in relation to building work
which is the subject of an initial notice as if—

5.9.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 41(3A),
were references to the approver, and

5.9.b

for paragraph (3)(b) there were substituted—

5.9.b.b

given to the registered building control approver in accordance with paragraph
(2)(b) not later than five days after completion of the work to which the
initial notice relates.

;

5.9.c

in paragraph (4), for “regulation 16(1)” there were substituted  “regulation
15(1) (notice before starting work) of the Building (Registered Building
Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024,” .

5.10

Regulation 44 (commissioning) applies in relation to building work which is
the subject of an initial notice as if—

5.10.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 44(5), were
references to the approver, and

5.10.b

for paragraph (4) there were substituted—

5.10.b.4

The notice must be given to the registered building control approver—

5.10.b.4.a

subject to sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), not later than five days after
completion of the work to which the initial notice relates;

5.10.b.4.b

where regulation 19 (events causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of
the Building (Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England)
Regulations 2024 applies, not later than the date on which the initial notice
ceases to be in force or, if earlier, the end of the period referred to in
sub-paragraph (a);

5.10.b.4.c

where regulation 20 (provisions applicable to self-certification schemes)
applies by virtue of regulation 4 (functions of approvers) of the Building
(Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, not
later than the date on which the notice or certificate required by regulation
20 must be given.

.

5.11

Regulation 44ZA (commissioning in respect of a system for on-site electricity
generation) applies in relation to building work which is the subject of an
initial notice as if—

5.11.a

references to the building control authority, except in regulation 44ZA(4),
were references to the approver, and

5.11.b

for paragraph (3) there were substituted—

5.11.b.3

The notice must be given to the registered building control approver—

5.11.b.3.a

subject to sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), not later than five days after
completion of the work to which the initial notice relates;

5.11.b.3.b

where regulation 19 (events causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of
the Building (Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England)
Regulations 2024 applies, not later than the date on which the initial notice
ceases to be in force or, if earlier, the end of the period referred to in
sub-paragraph (a);

5.11.b.3.c

where regulation 20 (provisions applicable to self-certification schemes)
applies by virtue of regulation 4 (functions of approvers) of the Building
(Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, not
later than the date on which the notice or certificate required by regulation
20 must be given.

.

5.12

Regulation 7A of the Energy Performance of Buildings (England and Wales)
Regulations 2012 applies in relation to building work which is the subject of
an initial notice as if—

5.12.a

references to the local authority were references to the approver, and

5.12.b

in paragraph (3), after “work has been completed” there were inserted  “, or,
if earlier, the date on which, in accordance with regulation 19 (events
causing initial notice to cease to be in force) of the Building (Registered
Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024, the initial
notice ceases to be in force.” .

### Notices and certificates etc.

#### Form, grounds and period for rejecting initial notice

6

6.1

The prescribed form of an initial notice —

6.1.a

which is not combined with a plans certificate, is form 1 in Schedule 1, or

6.1.b

which is combined with a plans certificate, is form 4 in Schedule 1.

6.2

An initial notice must be accompanied by the plans and documents described in
the relevant form prescribed by paragraph (1).

6.3

The grounds on which a local authority must reject an initial notice are those
prescribed in Schedule 2 and the form to be used for rejecting an initial
notice (whether combined with a plans certificate or otherwise) is form 7 in
Schedule 1.

6.4

The period within which a local authority may give notice of rejection of an
initial notice is five working days beginning with the day on which the notice
is given.

#### Invalid notices or certificates

7

7.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a document which purports to be an initial notice,
amendment notice, plans certificate or final certificate (“the original
document”) is given to a local authority and the local authority is satisfied
that all or part of the work to which the original document relates is higher-
risk building work .

7.2

Where this paragraph applies the local authority must, as soon as is
reasonably practicable, give a notice to the approver and the person intending
to carry out the work (and where that person is not the client, the client)
and the form to be used for the notice is form 6 in Schedule 1.

7.3

Where a document which purports to be an initial notice, amendment notice,
plans certificate or final certificate (“the original document”) is given to a
local authority and the local authority is satisfied that all or part of the
work to which the original document relates is outside the scope of the
approver’s registration then the authority must, as soon as is reasonably
practicable, give a notice to the approver and the person intending to carry
out the work (and where that person is not the client, the client) and the
form to be used for the notice is form 6 in Schedule 1.

7.4

Where a document which purports to be an initial notice (“the original
notice”) is given to a local authority and the local authority is satisfied
that the original notice is given in breach of section 53D(5) of the 1984 Act
then the authority must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, give a notice
to the approver and the person intending to carry out the work (and where that
person is not the client, the client) and the form to be used for the notice
is form 6 in Schedule 1.

#### Form, grounds and period for rejecting amendment notice

8

8.1

The prescribed form of an amendment notice  is form 2 in Schedule 1.

8.2

An amendment notice must be accompanied by the plans and documents described
in the form prescribed by paragraph (1).

8.3

The grounds on which a local authority must reject an amendment notice are
those prescribed in paragraphs 1 to 11 of Schedule 2 and the form to be used
for rejecting an amendment notice is form 7 in Schedule 1.

8.4

The period within which a local authority may give notice of rejection of an
amendment notice is five working days beginning with the day on which the
notice is given.

#### Consultation with the fire and rescue authority

9

9.1

This regulation applies where an initial notice is to be given or has been
given in relation to the erection, extension or material alteration of an FSO
building or in relation to building work in connection with a relevant change
of use of a building and Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes
requirements in relation to the work.

9.2

Where this regulation applies, the approver must consult the fire and rescue
authority—

9.2.a

before, or as soon as practicable after, giving an initial notice in relation
to the work,

9.2.b

before, or as soon as practicable after, giving a relevant amendment notice in
relation to the work,

9.2.c

before giving a plans certificate (whether or not combined with an initial
notice), and

9.2.d

before giving a final certificate.

9.3

An approver required by paragraph (2) to consult the fire and rescue authority
must give to the fire and rescue authority—

9.3.a

in a case where the approver is consulting them in connection with an initial
notice or an amendment notice, sufficient plans to show whether the work
would, if carried out in accordance with those plans, comply with the
applicable requirements of Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations, and

9.3.b

in a case where the approver is consulting them in connection with the giving
of a plans certificate, a copy of the plans in relation to which the approver
intends to give the certificate.

9.4

An approver required by paragraph (2) to consult the fire and rescue
authority—

9.4.a

must have regard to any views expressed by the authority, and

9.4.b

must not give a plans certificate or a final certificate until 15 working days
have elapsed from the day on which the approver consulted the authority,
unless the authority have expressed their views to the approver before the
expiry of that period.

9.5

Where a local enactment would, if an application for building control approval
with full plans were submitted or granted in accordance with building
regulations, require the local authority to consult the fire and rescue
authority before or during the carrying out of any work, the approver must
consult the fire and rescue authority in a manner similar to that required by
the enactment.

9.6

In this regulation—

      “FSO building” is a building or any part of it to which the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005  applies, or will apply after the completion
of building work;           “relevant change of use” is a material change of
use where, after the change of use takes place, the Regulatory Reform (Fire
Safety) Order 2005 will apply, or continue to apply, to the building or any
part of it;           “relevant amendment notice” is an amendment notice where
any of the work specified in the initial notice, as varied by the amendment
notice, being work which could not have been carried out under the original
notice (“additional work”), concerns the erection, extension or material
alteration of an FSO building or is building work in connection with a
relevant change of use of a building and Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010
Regulations imposes requirements in relation to the additional work.

#### Consultation with the sewerage undertaker

10

10.1

This regulation applies where an initial notice or amendment notice is to be
given or has been given in respect of work in relation to which paragraph H4
of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes requirements.

10.2

Where this regulation applies, the approver must consult the sewerage
undertaker—

10.2.a

before, or as soon as practicable after, giving an initial notice in relation
to the work,

10.2.b

before, or as soon as practicable after, giving an amendment notice in
relation to the work,

10.2.c

before giving a plans certificate (whether or not combined with an initial
notice), and

10.2.d

before giving a final certificate.

10.3

An approver required by paragraph (2) to consult the sewerage undertaker must
give to the sewerage undertaker—

10.3.a

in a case where the approver is consulting them in connection with an initial
notice or an amendment notice, sufficient plans to show whether the work
would, if carried out in accordance with those plans, comply with the
applicable requirements of paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations,
and

10.3.b

in a case where the approver is consulting them in connection with the giving
of a plans certificate, a copy of the plans in relation to which the approver
intends to give the certificate.

10.4

An approver required by paragraph (2) to consult the sewerage undertaker—

10.4.a

must have regard to any views expressed by the undertaker, and

10.4.b

must not give a plans certificate or a final certificate until 15 working days
have elapsed from the day on which the approver consulted the undertaker,
unless the undertaker have expressed their views to the approver before the
expiry of that period.

10.5

In this regulation “ sewerage undertaker ” means a person appointed under
section 6 of the Water Industry Act 1991  for the area in which the building
is, or is to be, situated.

#### Plans certificate

11

11.1

The prescribed form of a plans certificate —

11.1.a

which is not combined with an initial notice, is form 3 in Schedule 1; or

11.1.b

which is combined with an initial notice, is form 4 in Schedule 1.

11.2

The grounds on which a local authority must reject a plans certificate which
is not combined with an initial notice are those prescribed in Schedule 3 and
the form to be used for rejecting a plans certificate is form 7 in Schedule 1.

11.3

The grounds on which a local authority must reject a plans certificate
combined with an initial notice are those prescribed in Schedules 2 and 3 and
the form to be used for rejecting a plans certificate is form 7 in Schedule 1.

11.4

The period within which a local authority may give notice of rejection of a
plans certificate (whether or not combined with an initial notice) is five
working days beginning on the day on which the certificate is given.

#### Effect of plans certificate

12

If an initial notice ceases to be in force as described in section 47(4)(b) of
the 1984 Act (cancellation etc. of initial notice) and the conditions in
section 53(2) of the 1984 Act (plans certificate given, accepted and not
rescinded) are satisfied, the local authority may not—

12.a

give a notice under section 36(1) of the 1984 Act (removal or alteration of
work which contravenes building regulations), or

12.b

institute proceedings under section 35 of the 1984 Act for a contravention of
building regulations,

in relation to any work described in the certificate which has been carried
out in accordance with the plans to which the certificate relates.

#### Form, grounds and period for rejecting final certificate

13

13.1

The prescribed form of a final certificate  is form 5 in Schedule 1.

13.2

The grounds on which a local authority must reject a final certificate are
those prescribed in Schedule 4 and the form to be used for rejecting a final
certificate is form 7 in Schedule 1.

13.3

The period within which a local authority may give notice of rejection of a
final certificate is ten working days beginning with the day on which the
certificate is given.

13.4

A final certificate given by an approver to a local authority in accordance
with these Regulations is evidence (but not conclusive evidence) that the
requirements specified in the certificate have been complied with.

#### Form of notice under section 51C of the 1984 Act

14

When giving a notice under section 51C(2) of the 1984 Act (change of person
intending to carry out work) the form set out as form 8 in Schedule 1 must be
used.

#### Notice before starting work and further notice when work is “commenced” etc.

15

15.1

At least two working days before the day on which building work starts, the
person carrying out the work must give a notice to the approver shown on the
initial notice relating to the building work setting out their intention to
start the work and the date that work is to start.

15.2

Not more than five working days after the day on which the work is to be
regarded as commenced the person carrying out the work must give a notice to
that effect to the approver.

15.3

If the approver is not satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced they
must give the person carrying out the work a notice to that effect (“rejection
notice”) within four weeks of the date the notice under paragraph (2) is
given, and the rejection notice must give the reasons for rejection.

15.4

Where a notice is given under paragraph (2) and the period referred to in
paragraph (3) expires without a rejection notice being given, then the work is
to be regarded as commenced.

15.5

If the person carrying out the work accepts the rejection notice they may not
give a further notice under paragraph (2) unless, having regard to the reasons
given by the approver, they are satisfied the work is to be regarded as
commenced.

15.6

A person who gave the notice under paragraph (2) may appeal to the First-tier
Tribunal against the decision of the approver to reject the notice provided
the appeal is made within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the
day on which the approver gives the rejection notice.

15.7

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (6) only if it is
satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the
following grounds—

15.7.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact,

15.7.b

that the decision was wrong in law,

15.7.c

that the decision was unreasonable,

15.7.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under the 1984 Act.

15.8

The approver may take such steps, including—

15.8.a

requiring information;

15.8.b

laying open of work for inspection, as it thinks appropriate to check whether
the work is to be regarded as commenced.

15.9

For the purposes of paragraphs (2) to (8), the provisions of regulation 16
(lapse of initial notices: commencement of work) apply to determine whether
work is to be regarded as commenced.

#### Lapse of initial notice: commencement of work

16

16.1

For the purposes of section 53A(6) of the 1984 Act (lapse of initial notice)
work is to be regarded as commenced in accordance with the following
paragraphs.

16.2

Where the work consists of the construction of a complex building, work is to
be regarded as commenced in relation to that building or the first stage of
building work for that building when the foundations supporting the building
and the structure of the lowest floor level of that building (but not the
other buildings or structures to be supported by those foundations) are
completed.

16.3

Where the work consists of—

16.3.a

the construction of a building and paragraph (2) does not apply, or

16.3.b

the horizontal extension of a building,

work is to be regarded as commenced when the sub-surface structure of the
building or the extension including all foundations, basement levels (if any)
and the structure of ground floor level is completed.

16.4

Where the work consists of any other building work then work is to be regarded
as commenced when the initial work is completed.

16.5

In this regulation—

      “ approved plans ” means plans which were part of or accompanied the
initial notice, or plans to which a plans certificate referred;           “
complex building ” means—         a building which is to be constructed on the
same foundation plinth or podium as any other building or structure,
a building which has more than one storey below ground level,           a
building where its proposed use is primarily as a public building where the
public or a section of the public has access to the building (whether or not
on payment) provided that the building has a capacity for 100 or more
visitors;                 “ initial work ” means the work set out in the
initial notice which the client considers amounts to 15% of all the work
described in the initial notice;           “ public building ” means—
a shop or shopping centre;           premises where food or drink are sold for
consumption on the premises, including a nightclub, social club or dance hall;
a stadium, theatre, cinema, concert hall;           a sports ground;
an exhibition hall or conference centre;           a hospital or premises for
the provision of health care.

#### Notification of dutyholders

17

17.1

This paragraph applies where, in relation to any building work, the client
appoints a principal contractor (or sole contractor) or a principal designer
(or sole or lead designer).

17.2

Subject to paragraph (3), where paragraph (1) applies the client must give a
notice to the approver shown on the initial notice relating to the building
work which includes—

17.2.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
person appointed (PA) and the date of appointment,

17.2.b

except where PA is the first person appointed to the role, the name, address,
telephone number and (if available) email address of the person who held the
role before PA (“outgoing dutyholder”) and the date their appointment ended,

17.2.c

where the notice is given by someone on behalf of the client, a statement
signed by the client confirming they agree to the notice being made and that
the information contained in the notice is correct.

17.3

Where the client is a domestic client (DC), the following applies instead of
paragraph (2)—

17.3.a

an outgoing dutyholder must provide the information referred to in paragraph
(2)(b) to the DC within five days of the day on which their appointment ends;

17.3.b

DC must provide the information referred to under sub-paragraph (a) to PA on
the date of appointment of PA or as soon as practicable after that date;

17.3.c

subject to paragraph (4), PA must give a notice to the approver which
includes—

17.3.c.i

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of PA and
date of appointment;

17.3.c.ii

except where PA is the first person appointed to the role, the name, address,
telephone number and (if available) email address of the outgoing dutyholder
and the date on which their appointment ended;

17.3.c.iii

a statement explaining the notice is given on behalf of a domestic client.

17.4

Where the outgoing dutyholder has not received the information required under
paragraph (3)(b) by the time the notice under paragraph (3)(c) is to be given
and DC does not have the information, the statement given by PA under
paragraph (3)(c)(iii) must also include an explanation to that effect.

17.5

A notice required under paragraph (2) or (3)(c) must be given to the approver
within the period of 14 days beginning with the date of the appointment.

#### Compliance declarations

18

Where building work described in an initial notice is completed the client
must give the approver a notice which includes—

18.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
client;

18.b

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the
principal contractor (or sole contractor) and the principal designer (or sole
or lead designer);

18.c

a statement that the building work is complete;

18.d

a statement, signed by the client, confirming that to the best of the client’s
knowledge the work complies with all applicable requirements of the building
regulations;

18.e

a statement given by each principal contractor (or sole contractor) for the
work and each principal designer (or sole or lead designer) for the work,
signed by the person to which the declaration relates, which includes—

18.e.i

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of that
person,

18.e.ii

the dates of their appointment, and

18.e.iii

confirmation—

18.e.iii.aa

in the case of a principal contractor (or sole contractor), that they
fulfilled their duties as a principal contractor under Part 2A (dutyholders
and competence) of the 2010 Regulations;

18.e.iii.bb

in the case of a principal designer (or sole or lead designer), that they
fulfilled their duties as a principal designer under Part 2A (dutyholders and
competence) of the 2010 Regulations.

#### Events causing initial notice to cease to be in force

19

19.1

Where a final certificate given in respect of work described in an initial
notice is rejected, the initial notice ceases to be in force in relation to
the work described in the final certificate on the expiry of a period of four
weeks beginning with the date on which notice of rejection is given.

19.2

Paragraph (3) applies where work described in an initial notice includes the
erection, extension or material alteration of a building, and—

19.2.a

the building or, as the case may be, the extension or any part of the building
which has been materially altered is occupied, and

19.2.b

no final certificate is given.

19.3

The initial notice ceases to be in force in relation to the building,
extension or part of a building which is occupied—

19.3.a

if the building is an FSO building, except where it contains only flats and
common parts for those flats, on the expiry of a period of four weeks
beginning with the date of occupation, and

19.3.b

in any other case, on the expiry of a period of eight weeks beginning with the
date of occupation.

19.4

Where work described in an initial notice involves a material change of use of
a building, and—

19.4.a

no final certificate is given, and

19.4.b

that change of use takes place,

the initial notice ceases to be in force in relation to that change of use on
the expiry of a period of eight weeks beginning with the day on which the
change of use takes place.

19.5

In any other case where no final certificate is given, an initial notice
ceases to be in force on the expiry of a period of eight weeks beginning with
the day on which the work described in the initial notice is substantially
completed.

19.6

An initial notice does not cease to be in force by virtue of paragraphs (2)
and (3) because part of a building or extension is occupied if a final
certificate has been accepted in respect of that part.

19.7

A local authority may extend any period referred to in this regulation either
before or after its expiry.

#### Cancellation of initial notices: forms etc.

20

20.1

Form 9 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by an approver, to
cancel an initial notice in accordance with section 52(1) of the 1984 Act
based on a condition in section 52(1)(a) to (e) of the 1984 Act.

20.2

Form 10 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by a person carrying
out or intending to carry out work, to cancel an initial notice in accordance
with section 52(3) of the 1984 Act based on a condition in section 52(3)(a) of
the 1984 Act.

20.3

Form 11 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by a local authority,
to cancel an initial notice in accordance with section 52(5A) of the 1984 Act
based on a condition in section 52(5B)(a) to (d) of the 1984 Act.

20.4

Form 12 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice a local authority must give to the
person shown in the initial notice as the registered building control approver
under section 52(7) of the 1984 Act.

20.5

Form 13 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by an approver, to
cancel an initial notice in accordance with section 52A(1) of the 1984 Act.

20.6

Form 14 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by a person carrying
out or intending to carry out work, to cancel an initial notice in accordance
with section 52A(2) of the 1984 Act.

20.7

Form 15 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by a local authority,
to cancel an initial notice in accordance with section 52A(4) of the 1984 Act.

20.8

Form 16 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by a local authority,
to cancel an initial notice in accordance with section 53D(2) of the 1984 Act.

20.9

Form 17 in Schedule 1 is the form of notice to be given, by a person carrying
out or intending to carry out work, to cancel an initial notice in accordance
with section 53D(3) of the 1984 Act.

#### Cancellation of initial notice: notice of contravention of building regulations

21

21.1

Except where paragraph (3) applies, where an approver is of the opinion that
an initial notice should be cancelled under section 52(1)(c) of the 1984 Act
for contravention of any provision of building regulations (including for
contravention of any provision in Part 2A of the 2010 Regulations except
regulation 11D(3)(a), (8) and (9)) the approver must first give notice in
writing to the person carrying out the work (C) or, in the case of
contravention of any provision in Part 2A of the 2010 Regulations, the client
specifying—

21.1.a

the requirement of building regulations which in the approver’s opinion has
not been complied with, and

21.1.b

the location of the work which contravenes that requirement.

21.2

Except in a case where the contravention is of any provision in Part 2A of the
2010 Regulations, a notice given in accordance with paragraph (1) must inform
C that if, by the end of the period specified in paragraph (4), C has neither
pulled down nor removed the work nor effected such alterations in it as may be
necessary to make it comply with building regulations, the approver will
cancel the initial notice.

21.3

Where the contravention to which the notice under paragraph (1) relates is of
a provision in Part 2A of the 2010 Regulations then the notice given in
accordance with paragraph (1) must inform the client that the approver will
cancel the initial notice if, by the end of the period specified in paragraph
(4), the client has not effected such alterations to the arrangements for
carrying out the work and such improvements to the competence of persons
carrying out the work (or as the case may be, the client), the principal
contractor or principal designer as may be necessary to ensure the carrying
out of the work complies with provisions of the building regulations referred
to in the notice.

21.4

The period within which the person carrying out the work or, as the case may
be, the client is to remedy the contravention is three months beginning with
the working day on which the notice under paragraph (1) is given.

### Transfer of projects back to local authority

#### Local authority powers in relation to partly completed work

22

22.1

This paragraph applies where—

22.1.a

any part of the work described in an initial notice has been carried out,

22.1.b

the initial notice has ceased to be in force by reason of regulation 19
(events causing initial notice to cease to be in force) or has been cancelled
by notice under section 52 or 53D of the 1984 Act, and

22.1.c

no other initial notice relating to that part of the work has been accepted.

22.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the owner must—

22.2.a

on being given reasonable notice by the local authority, provide them with—

22.2.a.i

sufficient plans of the work carried out, in respect of which no final
certificate has been given, to show whether any part of that work would, if
carried out in accordance with the plans, contravene any provision of the 2010
Regulations, and

22.2.a.ii

where a plans certificate was given and not rejected in respect of any such
part of the work, a copy of the plans to which it relates; and

22.2.b

comply with any notice in writing from the local authority requiring the owner
within a reasonable time to cut into, lay open or pull down so much of the
work as prevents the local authority from ascertaining whether any work in
relation to which there is no final certificate contravenes any requirement in
the 2010 Regulations.

22.3

Where paragraph (1) applies and work in relation to a building has begun but
not been completed, a person who intends to carry out further work in relation
to the partly completed work must give the local authority sufficient plans to
show that the intended work will not contravene any requirement in the 2010
Regulations, including such plans of any part of the work already carried out
as may be necessary to show that the intended work can be carried out without
contravening any such requirement.

22.4

Plans given to a local authority in accordance with paragraph (3) are not to
be regarded as an application for building control approval with full plans.

#### Periods within which information on work to which an initial notice relates must be provided

23

23.1

For the purposes of section 53(4B) of the 1984 Act, the period within which a
person shown in the initial notice as the registered building control approver
(P) is required to give information to the local authority is 21 days
beginning with the day on which the local authority gives P a notice under
section 53(4A).

23.2

For the purposes of section 53(4C) of the 1984 Act, the period within P is
required to give information to the person carrying out or intending to carry
out the work (C) is—

23.2.a

21 days beginning with the day on which the local authority gave P a notice
under section 53(4A), or

23.2.b

in relation to information requested by C pursuant to section 53(4C)(c), 21
days beginning with the date on which C gives P a notice under section
53(4C)(c).

### Transfer of projects to another approver

#### Section 53(7): prescribed provision

24

For the purposes of section 53(7)(a) of the 1984 Act, section 52(1)(a) of the
1984 Act is prescribed.

#### Information to be included in transfer certificates

25

For the purposes of section 53B(5) of the 1984 Act, a transfer certificate
must contain the following information—

25.a

a statement describing the original work and the unfinished work ;

25.b

a statement describing all the steps the approver has taken to determine, in
accordance with section 53B(2) of the 1984 Act, whether the unfinished work
contravenes any provision of the building regulations, in particular listing—

25.b.i

each inspection or laying open of the work undertaken;

25.b.ii

each report of any inspection or laying open of work produced;

25.b.iii

any other assessment of the work which was considered;

25.c

a statement setting out the name and address of the registered building
inspector from whom advice was obtained under section 54B(3) of the 1984 Act
before giving the transfer certificate;

25.d

a declaration, signed and dated by the approver, confirming—

25.d.i

the approver has inspected the unfinished work;

25.d.ii

the approver has determined that, as at the date of the transfer certificate,
the unfinished work does not contravene any provision of the building
regulations;

25.d.iii

each report or assessment referred to the statement under paragraph (b) has
been included in the transfer report given under section 53B of the 1984 Act;

25.d.iv

the approver has obtained advice from a registered building inspector under
section 54B(3) of the 1984 Act before giving the transfer certificate, and

25.d.v

the approver has received the agreement of the person carrying out or
intending to carry out the work to submit the transfer certificate and
transfer report.

#### Grounds for rejecting a transfer certificate and transfer report

26

The grounds on which a local authority may reject a transfer certificate and
transfer report are those prescribed in Schedule 5.

#### Cases where a further initial notice may be given after cancellation of an initial notice under section 53D

27

27.1

For the purposes of section 53D(5) of the 1984 Act, the following
circumstances are prescribed—

27.1.a

the approver has cancelled the initial notice under section 52(1)(a) of the
1984 Act;

27.1.b

the person carrying out or intending to carry out the work has cancelled the
initial notice under section 53D(3) of the 1984 Act because they were
satisfied the approver was unable to carry out (or continue to carry out)
their functions with respect to any of the work to which the initial notice
relates;

27.1.c

the approver is given a specified disciplinary order during the relevant
period (as defined in section 53B(7) of the 1984 Act).

27.2

In this regulation a “ specified disciplinary order ” means—

27.2.a

any disciplinary order under section 58U(2)(b) of the 1984 Act (variation of
registration) such that the approver is no longer able to carry out their
functions with respect to any of the work to which the initial notice
relates ;

27.2.b

any disciplinary order under section 58U(2)(c) of the 1984 Act (suspension of
registration) excluding any suspension which is as a consequence of functions
in relation to the unfinished work or work for the person carrying out the
work;

27.2.c

any disciplinary order under section 58U(2)(d) of the 1984 Act (cancellation
of registration) excluding any cancellation which is as a consequence of
functions in relation to the unfinished work or work for the person carrying
out the work;

27.2.d

an order under section 58V of the 1984 Act (interim suspension for suspected
serious contravention) excluding any interim suspension which is as a
consequence of functions in relation to the unfinished work or work for the
person carrying out the work.

### Appeals under Part 2 of the 1984 Act

#### Appeal under section 50(2) of the 1984 Act

28

28.1

An appeal to the regulator under section 50(2) of the 1984 Act must be made
within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on which the
approver refused to give the plans certificate.

28.2

Where a person is aggrieved with the decision of the regulator given on an
appeal under section 50(2) of the 1984 Act and wishes to appeal that decision
by virtue of section 43A(3) of the 1984 Act, they must appeal to the First-
tier Tribunal within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on
which the regulator notifies them of its decision.

28.3

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal referred to in paragraph (2) only
if it is satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more
of the following grounds—

28.3.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact,

28.3.b

that the decision was wrong in law,

28.3.c

that the decision was unreasonable,

28.3.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under the 1984 Act.

28.4

If the First-tier Tribunal allows an appeal it may quash or vary the decision.

#### Appeals under section 55 of the 1984 Act

29

29.1

An appeal to the First-tier Tribunal—

29.1.a

under section 55(1) of the 1984 Act;

29.1.b

under section 55(2A) of the 1984 Act,

must be made within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on
which the local authority notifies the approver of its decision.

29.2

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1)(a) only if it
is satisfied that the notice, certificate or report referred to in section
55(1) of the 1984 Act was not properly rejected on one or more of the
following grounds—

29.2.a

that the rejection was based on an error of fact,

29.2.b

that the rejection was wrong in law,

29.2.c

that the rejection was unreasonable,

29.2.d

that the rejection was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under the 1984 Act.

29.3

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1)(b) only if it
is satisfied that the initial notice was not properly cancelled under section
52A of the 1984 Act on one or more of the following grounds—

29.3.a

that the cancellation was based on an error of fact,

29.3.b

that the cancellation was wrong in law,

29.3.c

that the cancellation was unreasonable,

29.3.d

that the cancellation was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under the 1984 Act.

29.4

On determining an appeal under section 55(1) or (2A) of the 1984 Act, the
First-tier Tribunal must give notice of the decision to—

29.4.a

the person who made the appeal;

29.4.b

the local authority.

29.5

On determining an appeal under section 55(2A) of the 1984 Act, where the
First-tier Tribunal determines—

29.5.a

that an initial notice was properly cancelled, it must additionally notify the
regulator of the decision;

29.5.b

that an initial notice was not properly cancelled, it must in the notice
referred to in paragraph (4) explain the effect of section 55(2C)(a) to (c) of
the 1984 Act.

### Registers of notices etc. and registration of approvers

#### Register of notices and certificates

30

30.1

The register which local authorities must keep under section 56 of the 1984
Act must contain the information set out in paragraph (2) with respect to—

30.1.a

initial notices, amendment notices or notices under section 51C of the 1984
Act which are currently in force, and

30.1.b

plans certificates, transfer certificates and transfer reports or final
certificates which have been accepted or are presumed to have been accepted.

30.2

The information to be registered is—

30.2.a

the description of the work to which the notice or certificate relates and of
the location of the work,

30.2.b

the name and address of any person who signed the notice or certificate, and

30.2.c

the date on which the notice or certificate was accepted or was presumed to
have been accepted.

30.3

A register must include an index for enabling a person to trace any entry in
the register by reference to the address of the land to which the notice or
certificate relates.

30.4

The information prescribed in paragraph (2) must be entered in the register as
soon as practicable and in any event within 14 working days of the date the
notice or certificate in question is given.

#### Registration periods

31

31.1

For the purposes of section 58C(5) of the 1984 Act (registered building
inspectors), the prescribed period is four years.

31.2

For the purposes of section 58O(4) of the 1984 Act (registered building
control approvers), the prescribed period is five years.

#### Notices to local authorities on disciplinary matters in relation to approvers

32

32.1

For the purposes of section 58U(4) of the 1984 Act, the following cases are
prescribed—

32.1.a

where the disciplinary order provides for a variation to a person’s
registration;

32.1.b

where the disciplinary order provides for a suspension of a person’s
registration, regardless of the length of the suspension;

32.1.c

where the disciplinary order provides for a cancellation of a person’s
registration.

32.2

For the purposes of section 58V(4) of the 1984 Act, the following cases are
prescribed—

32.2.a

where the order provides for a suspension of a person’s registration,
regardless of the length of the suspension;

32.2.b

where such an order is revoked.

32.3

For the purposes of section 58Z4(5) of the 1984 Act, the following cases are
prescribed—

32.3.a

any improvement notice given to a registered building control approver;

32.3.b

where such a notice order is revoked.

#### Review of regulator’s decisions under Part 2A of the 1984 Act

33

33.1

The following decisions are prescribed  for the purposes of section 25(1) of
the 2022 Act—

33.1.a

a decision not to register an individual as a registered building inspector
under section 58C(3) of the 1984 Act;

33.1.b

a decision, on the registration of a registered building inspector, for the
registration to have effect in relation to work of a description which is
different to that requested in the application;

33.1.c

a decision, on the registration of a registered building inspector, for the
registration to be subject to a condition;

33.1.d

a decision not to register a person as a registered building control approver
under section 58O(2) of the 1984 Act;

33.1.e

a decision, on the registration of a registered building control approver, for
the registration to have effect in relation to work of a description which is
different to that requested in the application;

33.1.f

a decision, on the registration of a registered building control approver, for
the registration to be subject to a condition.

33.2

The person prescribed for the purposes of section 25(2) of the 2022 Act in
relation to the decisions referred to in paragraph (1) is the person who
applied for registration in accordance with section 58D or, as the case may
be, section 58P of the 1984 Act.

33.3

For the purposes of section 25 of the 2022 Act, a person requiring the
regulator  to carry out a review, or a person on their behalf, must give a
notice to the regulator in writing within 21 relevant days beginning with the
day after the day on which the decision referred to in paragraph (1) is
notified to the person, containing the following information—

33.3.a

the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address for the
person giving the notice;

33.3.b

if the person giving the notice is doing so on behalf of a person who falls
within the description in paragraph (2), the name and address of that person
and a statement that the person giving the notice is authorised to give the
notice on behalf of that person;

33.3.c

a statement of the review being sought which—

33.3.c.i

identifies the decision to be reviewed (including the date of the decision and
any reference number included on the decision), and

33.3.c.ii

sets out the reason the person considers the decision should be reviewed;

33.3.d

any information that is available to the person giving the notice, that may
have been relevant to the regulator’s original decision but was not available
at the time the original decision was made.

33.4

The regulator must give the person who required a review a notice setting out
the outcome of the review within 28 relevant days beginning with the day after
the day on which the person gives a notice under section 25(2) of the 2022
Act.

33.5

Where the outcome of a review is to uphold the original decision, the
regulator must set out its reasons in the notice required under paragraph (4).

33.6

Where the outcome of a review is to vary the decision, the regulator must
issue a new decision.

33.7

If requested, by the person requiring the review, the regulator must provide a
paper copy of the outcome of the review.

#### Appeal in relation to reviewed decisions

34

34.1

A person may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the
regulator of a kind referred to in regulation 33(1) (review of regulator’s
decisions under Part 2A of the 1984 Act) provided that the appeal is made
within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on which the
regulator notifies the person under regulation 33(4) .

34.2

The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1) only if it is
satisfied that the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the
following grounds—

34.2.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact,

34.2.b

that the decision was wrong in law,

34.2.c

that the decision was unreasonable,

34.2.d

that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the
1984 Act or regulations made under the 1984 Act.

34.3

If the First-tier Tribunal allows an appeal it may quash or vary the decision.

### Miscellaneous

#### Contravention of certain regulations not to be an offence or be subject to a compliance notice

35

Each of these Regulations, other than regulations 17 (notification of
dutyholders), 18 (compliance declarations) and 22 (local authority powers in
relation to partly completed work), is prescribed for the purposes of sections
35(2) and 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act.

#### Consequential amendments to the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 and transitional provision

36

36.1

The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005  is amended in accordance with
the following paragraphs.

36.2

In article 30(5)(c) after “the approved inspector” insert  “or registered
building control approver” .

36.3

In article 46(3) for “an approved inspector within the meaning of section 49
of the Building Act 1984” substitute  “a registered building control approver
within the meaning of section 58N of the Building Act 1984” .

36.4

The amendment in paragraph (3) does not apply in relation to a person who, by
virtue of regulation 46 of these Regulations or a provision of Schedule 3 to
the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 ,
continues in the capacity of an approved inspector on or after 6th April 2024.

#### Consequential amendments to the Building (Local Authority Charges) Regulations 2010

37

37.1

The Building (Local Authority Charges) Regulations 2010  are amended as
follows.

37.2

In regulation 2 in the appropriate place insert  ““ the RBCA Regulations ”
means the Building (Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England)
Regulations 2024;” .

37.3

In regulation 5(1)(d) at the beginning insert  “in relation to Wales,”  and
after that sub-paragraph, before  “and” , insert—

37.3.da

in relation to England, the consideration of building work reverting to local
authority control under the RBCA Regulations (a “reversion charge”);

.

37.4

In regulation 8(1)(d) at the beginning insert  “in relation to Wales,”  and
after that sub-paragraph insert—

37.4.da

in relation to England, any reversion charge shall be payable for building
work in relation to a building—

37.4.da.i

which has been substantially completed before plans are first given to the
authority in accordance with regulation 22(2)(a) of the RBCA Regulations, or

37.4.da.ii

in respect of which plans for further building work have been given to the
authority in accordance with regulation 22(3) of the RBCA Regulations,

on the first occasion on which those plans are or have been given;

.

#### Amendments to the Building Regulations 2010 and transitional provision

38

38.1

The Building Regulations 2010  are amended as follows.

38.2

In regulation 12(7) for “regulation 19 of the Building (Approved Inspectors
etc.) Regulations 2010” substitute  “regulation 22 of the Building (Registered
Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024” .

38.3

In regulation 14(3)(b) for “and (2)” substitute  “, (2) and (2A)” .

38.4

In regulation 18E(2)(c) for “an approved inspector” substitute  “a registered
building control approver” .

38.5

In regulation 41(3A) for “each results of testing” substitute  “the results of
the testing” .

38.6

In regulation 47(a)—

38.6.a

in paragraph (iii) after “(3D)” insert  “and (3E)” ;

38.6.b

in paragraph (vi) for “(appeal against refuse to grant certain certificates)”
substitute  “(unauthorised building work)” .

38.7

In regulation 47A—

38.7.a

in sub-paragraph (c) after “(3D)” insert  “and (3E)” ;

38.7.b

in sub-paragraph (f) for “(appeal against refuse to grant certain
certificates)” substitute  “(unauthorised building work)” .

38.8

The amendment in paragraph (4) does not apply in relation to a person who, by
virtue of regulation 46 of these Regulations or a provision of Schedule 3 to
the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023,
continues in the capacity of an approved inspector on or after 6th April 2024.

#### Consequential amendment to the Energy Performance of Buildings (England and Wales) Regulations 2012 and transitional provision

39

39.1

In regulation 32(1)(c) of the Energy Performance of Buildings (England and
Wales) Regulations 2012  for “an approved inspector for the purposes of the
inspector’s” substitute  “a registered building control approver for the
purposes of the approver’s” .

39.2

The amendment in paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to a person who, by
virtue of regulation 46 of these Regulations or a provision of Schedule 3 to
the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023,
continues in the capacity of an approved inspector on or after 6th April 2024.

#### Consequential amendments to the Building Safety (Registration of Higher-Risk Buildings and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023

40

In regulation 1(3) of the Building Safety (Registration of Higher-Risk
Buildings and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023 , in the
definition of “building control body”, after “approved inspector” insert  “or,
as the case may be, registered building control approver” .

#### Consequential amendments to the Building (Restricted Activities and Functions) (England) Regulations 2023

41

In regulation 3(2)(i) of the Building (Restricted Activities and Functions)
(England) Regulations 2023 —

41.a

for “regulation 19(1) of the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations
2010 (partly completed work)” substitute  “regulation 22(1) of the Building
(Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024 (local
authority powers in relation to partly completed work)”  ;

41.b

for “regulation 19(2)(a)” substitute  “regulation 22(2)(a)” ;

41.c

for “regulation 19(2)(b)” substitute  “regulation 22(2)(b)” .

#### Amendments to the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023

42

42.1

The Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023
are amended as follows.

42.2

After regulation 27(13) insert—

42.2.13A

For the purposes of section 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act (provisions for which
compliance notice may not be given) paragraphs (6) and (8) are prescribed.

.

42.3

After regulation 28(6) insert—

42.3.6A

For the purposes of section 35B(7)(a) of the 1984 Act (provisions for which
compliance notice may not be given) paragraph (3) is prescribed.

.

#### Revocations

43

The following provisions are revoked—

43.a

as respects England—

43.a.i

the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 ;

43.a.ii

regulations 34 to 44 of the Building Regulations &c. (Amendment) Regulations
2012 ;

43.a.iii

regulation 6 of the Building Regulations &c. (Amendment) Regulations 2013 ;

43.a.iv

regulation 10 of the Building Regulations &c. (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations
2013 ;

43.a.v

regulation 3 of the Building Regulations &c. (Amendment) Regulations 2014 ;

43.a.vi

regulation 3 of the Building Regulations &c. (Amendment) Regulations 2015 ;

43.a.vii

regulation 3 of the Building Regulations &c. (Amendment) Regulations 2016 ;

43.b

regulation 14 to 16 of the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2021 ;

43.c

regulation 3 of the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England) (No. 2)
Regulations 2021 ;

43.d

the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2022
;

43.e

paragraph 9 of the Schedule to the Building etc. (Amendment) (England) (No. 2)
Regulations 2022 ;

43.f

the Building (Approved Inspectors etc. and Review of Decisions) (England)
Regulations 2023 .

#### Transitional provisions: approved inspectors who became approvers

44

44.1

Subject to paragraph (6), this regulation applies where an approved inspector
who gave an initial notice before 6th April 2024 has become a suitably
qualified approver in relation to the work described in that notice before
that date.

44.2

Where this regulation applies then with effect from 6th April 2024 any initial
notice given by the approved inspector before 6th April 2024 is to be treated
as if it were given instead by that person in their capacity as an approver
and these Regulations apply with the modifications in paragraph (3) in
relation to that person in undertaking functions in relation to the work
described in the initial notice.

44.3

The modifications referred to in paragraph (2) are that these Regulations have
effect as if—

44.3.a

in regulation 4 (functions of approvers), paragraph (4)(a)(iv) (Part 2A) were
omitted;

44.3.b

in relation to any pre-1st October 2023 work—

44.3.b.i

regulations 15 to 18 were omitted;

44.3.b.ii

where an amendment notice is given by the approver to vary the work described
in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1), in paragraph 4 of form 2
(amendment notice) in Schedule 1, sub-paragraph (g) were omitted;

44.3.b.iii

where a final certificate is given by the approver in relation to the work
described in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1),   paragraphs 10
and 11   of form 5 (final certificates) in Schedule 1 were omitted.

44.4

Subject to paragraph (5), for the purposes of this regulation, an approver is
suitably qualified in relation to the work described in the initial notice
referred to if the building work is of a type within the scope of the
registration of the registered building control approver.

44.5

Where an approver is suitably qualified in relation to some of the work
described in an initial notice then paragraph (2) has effect in relation only
to the part of the building work within the scope of the registration and they
continue to be treated as an approved inspector, and regulation 45
(transitional provisions: approved inspectors who did not become approvers)
applies, in relation to the other part of the work described in the initial
notice.

44.6

This regulation does not apply to higher-risk building work .

#### Transitional provisions: approved inspectors who did not become approvers

45

45.1

Subject to paragraph (6), this regulation applies where an approved inspector
who gave an initial notice before 6th April 2024 did not become a suitably
qualified approver before that date.

45.2

Where this regulation applies then, notwithstanding the revocations in
regulation 43 (revocations), with effect from 6th April 2024, in relation to
any building work in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1) for which
the approved inspector is not a suitably qualified approver, the AI
Regulations continue to have effect until 1st October 2024 with the
modifications in paragraph (3).

45.3

The modifications referred to in paragraph (2) are that the AI Regulations
have effect as if—

45.3.a

the approved inspector were not permitted to give an initial notice on or
after 6th April 2024 and accordingly regulation 10 (form, grounds and period
for rejecting initial notices) and forms 1 and 4 (initial notice and combined
initial notice) in Schedule 1 (forms) were omitted;

45.3.b

in regulation 8 (functions of approvers) the reference to “Part 2A
(dutyholders and competence)” were omitted;

45.3.c

in relation to pre-1st October 2023 work—

45.3.c.i

regulations 16B to 16E were omitted;

45.3.c.ii

where an amendment notice is given by the approved inspector to vary the work
described in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1), in paragraph 4
of form 2 (amendment notice) in Schedule 1, sub-paragraph (g) were omitted;

45.3.c.iii

where a final certificate is given by the approved inspector in relation to
the work described in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1),
paragraphs 10A and 10B of form 5 (final certificates) in Schedule 1 were
omitted.

45.4

Subject to paragraph (5), for the purposes of this regulation, a person is not
a suitably qualified approver—

45.4.a

if they are not a registered building control approver in relation to any
work, or

45.4.b

in relation to the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1), if all of the
building work described in the notice is of a type that is not within the
scope of the registration of the registered building control approver.

45.5

Where an approved inspector has become a registered building control approver
before 6th April 2024 but, in relation to the initial notice referred to in
paragraph (1), some of the building work described in the notice is of a type
that is not within the scope of their registration then paragraph (2) has
effect in relation only to the part of the building work not within the scope
of the registration.

45.6

This regulation does not apply to higher-risk building work.

#### Transitional provisions: higher-risk building work regarded as sufficiently progressed

46

46.1

This regulation applies in relation to any initial notice given before 1st
October 2023 in respect of higher-risk building work where—

46.1.a

a notice under paragraph 1(4) (notice that work had sufficiently progressed)
of Schedule 3 to the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023  in relation to work to that building was received by a local
authority before 6th April 2024, and

46.1.b

the approved inspector who gave the initial notice became an approver before
6th April 2024.

46.2

Where this regulation applies then with effect from 6th April 2024 for so long
as the initial notice continues in force on or after that date—

46.2.a

the initial notice given by the approved inspector is to be treated as if it
were given instead by that person in their capacity as an approver,

46.2.b

these Regulations apply in relation to the approver in respect of the work
described in that initial notice with the modifications in paragraph (4), and

46.2.c

Parts 2 to 6 of, and paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to, the Building (Higher-Risk
Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 do not apply to the work.

46.3

In cases where this regulation applies and the work described in the initial
notice referred to in paragraph (1) is completed on or after 6th April 2024
then, with effect from that date, regulation 58 of the Building (Higher-Risk
Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 has effect as if for
paragraphs (2) to (4) there were substituted—

46.3.2

In relation to regulation 46 transitional work, a final certificate given by a
registered building control approver to a local authority in accordance with
the Building (Registered Building Control Approvers etc.) (England)
Regulations 2024 and not rejected by the authority is also prescribed as a
completion certificate for the purposes of section 76(5) of the 2022 Act.

46.3.3

In this regulation “ regulation 46 transitional work ” means work of a kind
referred to in section 76(1) of the 2022 Act which is completed on or after
6th April 2024 and regulation 46 of the Building (Registered Building Control
Approvers etc.) (England) Regulations 2024 (transitional provisions: higher-
risk building work regarded as sufficiently progressed) applied to the work.

.

46.4

The modifications referred to in paragraph (2) are that these Regulations have
effect as if—

46.4.a

in regulation 4 (functions of approvers), paragraph (4)(a)(iv) (Part 2A) were
omitted;

46.4.b

in regulation 15 (notices), paragraphs (2) to (9) were omitted;

46.4.c

regulations 16 to 18 were omitted;

46.4.d

where an amendment notice is given by the approver to vary the work described
in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1) and provided the amendment
notice does not vary any of the work to become higher-risk building work then—

46.4.d.i

regulation 7 (invalid notices or certificates) did not apply in relation to
that amendment notice;

46.4.d.ii

in paragraph 4 of form 2 (amendment notice) in Schedule 1, sub-paragraph (g)
were omitted;

46.4.d.iii

in paragraph 11 of form 2 (amendment notice) in Schedule 1—

46.4.d.iii.aa

the words “and that the work described in this notice is within the scope of
its registration” were omitted;

46.4.d.iii.bb

sub-paragraph (c) were omitted;

46.4.e

where a plans certificate is given by the approver in relation to the work
described in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1)—

46.4.e.i

regulation 7 (invalid notices or certificates) did not apply in relation to
the plans certificate;

46.4.e.ii

in paragraph 2 of form 3 (plans certificates) in Schedule 1, the words “and
that the work described in this certificate is within the scope of its
registration” were omitted;

46.4.e.iii

in paragraph 9 of form 3 (plans certificates) in Schedule 1, sub-paragraph (d)
were omitted;

46.4.f

where a final certificate is given by the approver in relation to the work
described in the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1)—

46.4.f.i

regulation 7 (invalid notices or certificates) did not apply in relation to
the final certificate;

46.4.f.ii

in paragraph 2 of form 5 (final certificates) in Schedule 1, sub-paragraph (b)
were omitted;

46.4.f.iii

  paragraphs 10, 11 and 13   of form 5 (final certificates) in Schedule 1 were
omitted;

46.4.g

where the initial notice referred to in paragraph (1) is cancelled, Part 5
(transfer of projects to another approver) were omitted;

46.4.h

where the building work described in the initial notice started before 6th
April 2024, Part 5 (transfer of projects to another approver) were omitted.

#### Transitional provisions: cases where building work supervised by approved inspector is not completed before October 2024

47

47.1

Subject to paragraph (3), this regulation applies where an initial notice was
given by an approved inspector under section 47 of the 1984 Act before 6th
April 2024 and the building work, or part of the building work, described in
the initial notice has not been given a final certificate before 1st October
2024.

47.2

Where this regulation applies then for the purposes of section 47(4)(b)(ii) of
the 1984 Act the initial notice ceases to be in force with effect from 1st
October 2024.

47.3

This regulation does not apply to—

47.3.a

higher-risk building work;

47.3.b

any initial notice or part of an initial notice which is to be treated as
given by an approver by virtue of regulation 44 (transitional provisions:
approved inspectors who became approvers).

#### Interpretation of Part 8

48

In this Part—

      “ AI Regulations ” means the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.)
Regulations 2010;           “ approved inspector ” has the meaning given in
section 49 of the Building Act 1984 (as that section had effect immediately
before 6th April 2024);           “building” and “building work” have the
meanings given in regulation 2(1) of the 2010 Regulations;           “ pre-1st
October 2023 work ” means building work to which regulation 20(1) of the
Building (Approved Inspectors etc. and Review of Decisions) (England)
Regulations 2023 applied immediately before 6th April 2024 provided the work
had started before 6th April 2024.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Lee Rowley   Minister of State   Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     28th January 2024

  Forms

Regulations 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 20



























































  Grounds for Rejecting an Initial Notice, an Amendment Notice or a Plans
Certificate Combined with an Initial Notice

Regulations 6, 8 and 11

##### Form

1

The notice is not in the prescribed form.

##### Wrong local authority

2

No part of the work described in the notice is to be carried out in the area
of the local authority to whom the notice has been given.

##### Capacity of approver

3

The person who signed the notice as an approver is not an approver on the date
the notice is rejected or if they are an approver on that date, their
registration does not include all the work described in the notice.

4

Additionally, in the case of an amendment notice, the person who signed the
amendment notice as an approver is not the approver who gave the initial
notice.

##### Breach of section 54B

5

The person specified in the notice as the registered building inspector who
gave advice in relation to that notice—

5.a

was not a registered building inspector on the date the notice was submitted;
or

5.b

was a registered building inspector on that date but their registration did
not include all the work described in the notice.

##### Information about the proposed work

6

Neither the notice nor the accompanying plans and documents include—

6.a

the location and a description of the work, including the use of any building
to which the work relates;

6.b

information needed by the local authority to decide whether the notice is to
be rejected on ground 10 or 11;

6.c

information as to whether or not the work concerns a new dwelling;

6.d

a statement setting out the date when work will reach the point when it is to
be regarded as commenced and, if applicable, the details of the work which the
client considers amounts to 15% of the proposed work;

6.e

in the case of an initial notice or an amendment notice in relation to a new
dwelling, either—

6.e.i

a statement whether or not one or more, and if so which, of the following
optional requirements applies to the building work—

6.e.i.aa

regulation 36(2)(b) (optional water efficiency requirement of 110 litres per
person per day),

6.e.i.bb

Schedule 1 Part M optional requirement M4(2) (category 2- accessible and
adaptable dwellings),

6.e.i.cc

Schedule 1 Part M optional requirement M4(3) (category 3- wheelchair user
dwellings), or

6.e.ii

a statement that planning permission has not yet been granted for the work,
and that the information required by sub-paragraph (i) will be supplied as
soon as is reasonably practicable after that permission is granted;

6.f

in the case of an initial notice or amendment notice in relation to the
erection of a new dwelling—

6.f.i

a statement giving details of any public electronic communications network in
relation to which a connection is to be provided;

6.f.ii

if an exemption in regulation 44ZB of the 2010 Regulations is proposed to be
relied on, a statement giving details in support of the exemption;

6.f.iii

if regulation 44ZC of those Regulations is proposed to be relied on, a
statement giving details of the matters mentioned in regulation 44ZC(6)(a) and
(b) of those Regulations and, if paragraph RA1(1)(c)(i) or (ii) of Schedule 1
to those Regulations is also proposed to be relied on, evidence of the steps
taken to establish whether, and if so where, a distribution point for a
gigabit-capable public electronic communications network (as defined in
regulation 44C of those Regulations) is likely to be installed, in a location
relevant for the purposes of paragraph RA1(1)(c) of that Schedule, within the
period of two years beginning with the day on which the notice is given;

6.g

in the case of a plans certificate combined with an initial notice, a
statement in accordance with sub-paragraph (e)(i).

##### Fire and rescue authority

7

The approver is obliged by regulation 9 to consult the fire and rescue
authority before giving a plans certificate or final certificate, and the
notice does not contain an undertaking to do so.

##### Sewerage undertaker

8

The approver is obliged by regulation 10 to consult the sewerage undertaker
before giving a plans certificate or final certificate, and the notice does
not contain an undertaking to do so.

##### Independence

9

The notice does not contain a declaration by the approver that the approver
does not, and while the initial notice is in force will not, have any
professional or financial interest in that work.

##### Drain connection

10

In the case of the erection or extension of a building, the local authority
considers that, in order to comply with the requirements of Part H of Schedule
1 to the 2010 Regulations, a proposed drain or private sewer must discharge to
an existing sewer, but the statement accompanying the notice does not describe
such an arrangement.

##### Local enactments

11

The local authority is not satisfied that the work described will comply with
any local enactment which requires or authorises them to reject an application
for building control approval submitted in accordance with building
regulations.

##### Commencement of work

12

Where a statement setting out the details of the work which the client
considers amounts to 15% of all the work described in the notice has been
provided, the local authority is not satisfied that the work described in the
statement amounts to 15% of all the work described in the notice.

##### Earlier notice

13

13.1

Except where sub-paragraph (2) applies, an initial notice (“an earlier
notice”) has already been given in respect of any part of the work described
in the notice.

13.2

The ground in sub-paragraph (1) does not apply if—

13.2.a

an earlier notice has ceased to be in force and the local authority has taken
no positive step to supervise the work described in it; or

13.2.b

the notice is accompanied by an undertaking by the approver who gave an
earlier notice to the effect that the approver will cancel that notice as soon
as the initial notice under consideration is accepted.

  Grounds for rejecting a plans certificate or plans certificate combined with
an initial notice

Regulation 11

##### Form

1

The certificate is not in the prescribed form.

##### Wrong building control authority

2

No part of the work described in the plans certificate is to be carried out in
the area of the local authority to whom the certificate has been given.

##### Work

3

The certificate does not describe the work to which it relates.

##### Optional requirements

4

The certificate does not contain—

4.a

information whether or not the work concerns a new dwelling; or

4.b

in the case of a new dwelling, information whether or not one or more, and if
so which, of the following optional requirements applies to the building work—

4.b.i

regulation 36(2)(b) (optional water efficiency requirement of 110 litres per
person per day),

4.b.ii

Schedule 1 Part M optional requirement M4(2) (category 2- accessible and
adaptable dwellings),

4.b.iii

Schedule 1 Part M optional requirement M4(3) (category 3- wheelchair user
dwellings); or

4.c

in the case of a plans certificate relating to a new dwelling, a statement
that it relates only to such part of the work to which no requirement under
regulation 36 of, or requirements M4(1), (2) or (3) of Schedule 1 to, the
Building Regulations 2010 may apply.

##### Plans

5

The certificate does not specify the plans to which it relates.

##### No initial notice

6

Except where the plans certificate is combined with an initial notice, no
initial notice was in force with respect to the work described in the
certificate at the time the certificate was given.

##### Capacity of approver

7

An initial notice was in force with respect to the work described in the
certificate at the time the certificate was given, but—

7.a

the certificate is not signed by the approver who gave the initial notice,

7.b

the person who signed the certificate is not an approver on the date the
notice is rejected, or

7.c

where they are an approver, their registration does not include all the work
described in the certificate.

##### Breach of section 54B

8

The person specified in the certificate as the registered building inspector
who gave advice in relation to that certificate—

8.a

was not a registered building inspector on the date the certificate was
submitted, or

8.b

was a registered building inspector on that date but their registration did
not include all the work described in the certificate.

##### Fire and rescue authority

9

The approver was obliged by regulation 9 to consult the fire and rescue
authority before giving the certificate, but the certificate does not contain
a declaration that the approver has consulted them in accordance with that
regulation.

##### Sewerage undertaker

10

The approver was obliged by regulation 10 to consult the sewerage undertaker
before giving the certificate, but the certificate does not contain a
declaration that the approver has consulted them in accordance with that
regulation.

##### Independence

11

The certificate does not contain a declaration by the approver that the
approver has not since giving the initial notice in question had any
professional or financial interest in that work.

  Grounds for rejecting a final certificate

Regulation 13

##### Form

1

The certificate is not in the prescribed form.

##### Wrong building control authority

2

No part of the work described in the final certificate was carried out in the
area of the local authority to whom the certificate has been given.

##### Work

3

The certificate does not describe the work to which it relates.

##### Optional requirements

4

The certificate does not contain information—

4.a

whether or not the work concerns a new dwelling; or

4.b

in the case of a new dwelling, information whether or not one or more, and if
so which, of the following optional requirements applies to the building work—

4.b.i

regulation 36(2)(b) (optional water efficiency requirement of 110 litres per
person per day),

4.b.ii

Schedule 1 Part M optional requirement M4(2) (category 2- accessible and
adaptable dwellings),

4.b.iii

Schedule 1 Part M optional requirement M4(3) (category 3- wheelchair user
dwellings).

##### No initial notice

5

No initial notice was in force with respect to the work described in the
certificate at the time the certificate was given.

##### No plans certificate

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Capacity of approver

7

An initial notice was in force with respect to the work described in the
certificate at the time the certificate was given, but—

7.a

the certificate is not signed by the approver who gave the initial notice,

7.b

the person who signed the certificate is not an approver on the date the
certificate is rejected, or

7.c

where they are an approver, their registration does not include all the work
described in the certificate.

##### Breach of section 54B

8

The person specified in the certificate as the registered building inspector
who gave advice in relation to that certificate—

8.a

was not a registered building inspector on the date the certificate was
submitted, or

8.b

was a registered building inspector on that date but their registration did
not include all the work described in the certificate.

##### Lack of fire safety information confirmation

9

Regulation 38 of the Building Regulations 2010, as modified by regulation 5
(modifications of the 2010 Regulations), applies to the building work to which
the final certificate relates and the approver has not provided a confirmation
that the person carrying out the work has notified the approver to the effect
that the fire safety information has been given to the responsible person as
required by that regulation.

##### Independence

10

The certificate does not contain a declaration by the approver that the
approver has not since giving that notice had any professional or financial
interest in that work.

  Grounds for rejecting a transfer certificate and transfer report

Regulation 26

##### Required information

1

The transfer certificate does not include the information required by
regulation 25 (information to be included in transfer certificates).

##### Wrong local authority

2

No part of the unfinished work described in the transfer certificate is to be
carried out in the area of the local authority to whom the transfer
certificate has been given.

##### No initial notice

3

No new initial notice under section 53(7)(a) of the 1984 Act was in force with
respect to the work described in the transfer certificate at the time the
transfer certificate was given.

##### Capacity of approver

4

A new initial notice was in force with respect to the unfinished work
described in the transfer certificate at the time the certificate was given,
but—

4.a

the certificate is not signed by the approver who gave the new initial notice,

4.b

the person who signed the certificate is not an approver on the date the
certificate is rejected, or

4.c

where they are an approver, their registration does not include all the work
described in the certificate.

##### Breach of section 54B

5

The person specified in the certificate as the registered building inspector
who gave advice in relation to that certificate—

5.a

was not a registered building inspector on the date the certificate was
submitted; or

5.b

was a registered building inspector on that date but their registration did
not include all the work described in the certificate.

##### Earlier notice

6

6.1

Except where sub-paragraph (2) applies, a new initial notice under section
53(7)(a) of the 1984 Act (“an earlier notice”) has already been given in
respect of any part of the unfinished work described in the notice.

6.2

The ground in sub-paragraph (1) does not apply if—

6.2.a

an earlier notice has ceased to be in force and the local authority has taken
no positive step to supervise the work described in it, or

6.2.b

the notice is accompanied by an undertaking by the approver who gave an
earlier notice to the effect that the approver will cancel that notice as soon
as the initial notice under consideration is accepted.

##### Local authority action

7

7.1

The local authority has given a section 36 notice, a compliance notice or a
stop notice in relation to the unfinished work .

7.2

The local authority received an application in relation to the whole or part
of the unfinished work in accordance with regulation 18 of the 2010
Regulations.

7.3

The local authority has otherwise taken any positive step to supervise the
unfinished work.

##### Failure to provide information requested

8

The approver has been given a request under section 53C(4) of the 1984 Act but
failed to provide the information within the period referred to in that
section.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations revoke, in relation to England, the Building (Approved
Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2215 ) (“ the AI Regulations ”)
with the amendments to those Regulations made by  S.I. 2015/767 ,  2016/285 ,
2021/1391 ,  2021/1392 ,  2022/718  and  2023/906 . They also revoke and
include in this instrument provisions relating to the registration and review
in regulations 3 to 5 of the Building (Approved Inspectors, Review of
Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023 ( S.I. 2023/906 ).

  Section 47 of the Building Act  1984 (c. 55)  (“ the 1984 Act ”) provides
that the responsibility for inspecting plans and building work for compliance
with building regulations may, at the option of the person intending to carry
out the work, be given to a registered building control approver (“approver”)
instead of to the local authority.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision about the supervision of
building work by approvers, including the independence of approvers, their
functions and how provisions of the Building Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2214
) are modified in their application to approvers.

  Regulation 3 derives from regulation 9 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 4 derives from regulation 8 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 5 derives from regulation 20 of the AI Regulations.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision in relation to procedural
requirements, including the forms to be used for initial notices, amendment
notices, plans certificates and final certificates, the grounds for rejecting
these notices and certificates, the period for rejecting them, consultation
requirements.

  Regulation 6 and forms 1 and 6 derive from regulation 10 of, and forms 1 and
5A in Schedule 1 to, the AI Regulations. Schedule 2 derives from Schedule 2 to
the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 7 derives from regulation 10A of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 8 and form 2 derive from regulation 11 of, and form 2 in Schedule
1 to, the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 9 derives from regulation 12 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 10 derives from regulation 13 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 11 and forms 3 and 4 derive from regulation 14 of, and forms 3
and 4 in Schedule 1 to, the AI Regulations. Schedule 3 derives from Schedule 3
to the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 12 derives from regulation 15 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 13 and form 5 derive from regulation 16 of, and form 5 in
Schedule 1 to, the AI Regulations. Schedule 4 derives from Schedule 4 to the
AI Regulations.

  Regulation 14 and form 7 derive from regulation 16A of, and form 5B in
Schedule 1 to, the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 15 derives from regulation 16B of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 16 derives from regulation 16C of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 17 derives from regulation 16D of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 18 derives from regulation 16E of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 19 derives from regulation 17 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulations 20 and 21 and forms 8 to 10 and 12 to 14 derive from regulation
18 and forms 6, 7, 8, 8A, 8B, 8C in Schedule 1 to, the AI Regulations.
Regulation 20 provides for new form 11 which is the form of notice a local
authority must give under section 52(7) of the 1984 Act; new forms 15, 16 and
17 which are the notices to be used to cancel an initial notice where a plans
certificate is required and has not been given; new forms 18 and 19 which are
the notices to be used to cancel an initial notice under section 53D(2) and
(3) of the 1984 Act.

  Part 4 of these Regulations sets out the procedures where building work
reverts to a local authority on an initial notice ceasing to be in force.

  Regulation 22 derives from regulation 19 of the AI Regulations.

  Part 5 of these Regulations makes new provision for where an initial notice
ceases to be in force and a new registered building control approver is
appointed. In particular regulation 25 makes provision as to the content of a
transfer certificate and regulation 26 and Schedule 5 set out the grounds for
rejecting a transfer certificate and transfer report.

  Part 6 of these Regulations sets out provisions relating to appeals under
sections 50 and 55 of the 1984 Act.

  Regulation 28 derives from regulation 29A of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 29 derives from regulation 29B of the AI Regulations.

  Part 7 of these Regulations provides in regulation 30 for the content of
local registers of notices and certificates, regulation 31 provides for the
length of registration periods for registered building control approvers and
registered building inspectors, regulation 32 sets out new provision as to
when copies of disciplinary sanctions issued against approvers must be sent to
local authorities in England and regulations 33 and 34 makes provisions as to
the decisions in Part 2A which may be reviewed and the right of appeal and
procedure for an appeal following a review.

  Regulation 30 derives from regulation 30 of the AI Regulations.

  Regulation 31 derives from regulation 3 of  S.I. 2023/906 .

  Regulation 33 derives from regulation 4 of  S.I. 2023/906 .

  Regulation 34 derives from regulation 5 of  S.I. 2023/906 .

  Part 8 of these Regulations contains miscellaneous provisions including a
number of consequential amendments to other instruments, the revocations
mentioned above and transitional provisions relating to those revocations.

  Regulation 35 derives from regulation 31 of the AI Regulations.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs to business is published with an Explanatory Memorandum alongside the
instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

