Title: The National Grid (Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024
Date: 2024-08-30
Description: This Order authorises National Grid to undertake works to the national electricity transmission system between the existing substation at Monk Fryston to the existing substation at Osbaldwick. The proposed development is required to provide sufficient transmission capacity to enable the connection of new electricity generation projects in the region, and to carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/393

## The National Grid (Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   14th March 2024

  Coming into force   5th April 2024

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.       The
application was examined by a panel as Examining authority appointed by the
Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The
Examining authority, having considered application together with the
representations made and not withdrawn and the accompanying documents, has
submitted a report and recommendation to the Secretary of State in accordance
with section 74  of the 2008 Act.       The Secretary of State has considered
the report and recommendation of the Examining Authority, has taken into
account the environmental information in accordance with regulation 4 of the
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017
and has had regard to the documents and matters referred to in section 104(2)
of the 2008 Act.       The Secretary of State, having decided the application,
has determined to make an Order granting development consent for the
development described in the application on terms that in the opinion of the
Secretary of State are not materially different from those proposed in the
application.           The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114, 115, 117, 120, 122 and 123 of the 2008 Act, makes
the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the National Grid (Yorkshire Green Energy
Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024 and comes into force on 5th
April 2024.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided or context requires otherwise—

“ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ the 1965 Act ” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act
1980 ; “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ; “ the 1984 Act ” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ; “ the
1989 Act ” means the Electricity Act 1989 ; “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town
and Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and
Street Works Act 1991 ; “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “
the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ; “ the 2016 Act ” means the
Housing and Planning Act 2016 ; “ the 2016 Regulations ” means the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 ; “ access,
rights of way and public rights of navigation plan ” means the document of
that description listed in Part 1 of Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and
environmental statement) and certified by the Secretary of State as the
access, rights of way and public rights of navigation plan for the purposes of
this Order under article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “ arboricultural
impact assessment ” means the document of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the arboricultural impact assessment under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.); “ archaeological written scheme of
investigation ” means the document of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the archaeological written scheme of investigation for
the purposes of this Order under article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “
authorised development ” means the development and associated development
described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development
authorised by this Order, which is development within the meaning of section
32 (meaning of “ development ”) of the 2008 Act; “ biodiversity mitigation
strategy ” means the document of that description certified by the Secretary
of State as the biodiversity mitigation strategy for the purposes of this
Order under article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “ book of reference ”
means the document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as
the book of reference for the purposes of this Order under article 48
(certification of plans, etc); “ building ” includes any structure or erection
or any part of a building, structure or erection; “ business day ” means a day
other than Saturday or Sunday which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a
bank holiday under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 ;
“ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further provision
as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act; “ code of construction practice ” means
the document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
code of construction practice for the purposes of this Order under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.); “ compulsory acquisition notice ” means a
notice served in accordance with section 134 (notice of authorisation of
compulsory acquisition) of the 2008 Act; “ construction management plans ”
means the plans listed at Requirement 5(2) of Schedule 3 (Requirements); “
construction traffic management plan ” means the document of that description
certified by the Secretary of State as the construction traffic management
plan for the purposes of this Order under article 48 (certification of plans,
etc.); “ cycle track ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further
provision as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act and for the purposes of this
Order includes a right of way on foot; “ design approach to site specific
infrastructure ” means the document of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the design approach to site specific infrastructure for
the purposes of this Order under article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “
design drawings ” means the document of that description listed in Part 2 of
Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and environmental statement) and certified by the
Secretary of State as the design drawings for the purposes of this Order under
article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “ electric line ” has the same
meaning as in section 64 (interpretation etc. of Part 1) of the 1989 Act; “
electronic transmission ” means a communication transmitted— by means of an
electronic communications network; or by other means but while in electronic
form; “ elevation plans ” means the elevation plans included within the design
drawings referenced within Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and environmental
statement), Part 2 with Drawing Numbers DCO_DE/PS/14_03, DCO_DE/PS/15_03,
DCO_DE/PS/16_03, DCO_DE/PS/17_03, DCO_DE/PS/18_03, DCO_DE/PS/19_03,
DCO_DE/PS/20_03; “ environmental statement ” means the environmental statement
(Documents 5.1 to 5.4.18), environmental statement addendum (Document 5.2.22)
and the documents contained in or named in the consolidated errata and changes
(Document 5.2.19) and certified as the environmental statement by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.) as listed in Part 8 of Schedule 2 (plans,
drawings and environmental statement); “ extinguishment of easements,
servitudes and other private rights plan ” means the document of that
description listed in Part 3 of Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and environmental
statement) and certified by the Secretary of State as the extinguishment of
easements, servitudes and other private rights plan under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.); “ foundations ” means a foundation placed in
land to support pylons and electric lines constructed upon those foundations;
“ highway ” has the same meaning as in section 328(1) (meaning of “ highway ”)
of the 1980 Act; “ highway authority ” means the relevant highway authority
for the area of land to which the relevant provision of this Order relates and
any successor in function; “ land plan ” means the document of that
description listed in Part 4 of Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and environmental
statement) and certified as the land plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “
limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation referred to in article 5
(limits of deviation) and shown on the works plan and design drawings; “
linear works ” means those works shown on the works plan with a centreline; “
local authority ” means the relevant local authority for the area of land to
which the relevant provision of this Order relates and any successor in
function; “ main river ” has the same meaning as is in Part 4 of the Water
Resources Act 1991 ; “ maintain ” includes inspect, repair, adjust, alter,
dismantle, remove, clear, refurbish, re-tension, paint, surface treat,
decommission, improve, reconstruct or replace any part, but not remove,
reconstruct or replace the whole of, the authorised development including
through the use of robots, drones, gadgets or similar devices either remote
controlled or autonomous, provided such works do not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects to those
identified in the environmental statement, and any derivative of “maintain”
must be construed accordingly; “ National Grid ” means National Grid
Electricity Transmission plc (registered company number 02366977); “ NGN ”
means Northern Gas Networks Limited (Company Number 05167070); “ NGN Works ”
means those works to NGN assets or equipment forming part of the authorised
development, including Work No. U8; “ noise and vibration management plan ”
means the document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as
the noise and vibration management plan for the purposes of this Order under
article 48 (certification of plans, etc.); “ non-linear works ” means those
works identified on the works plan as non-linear works comprising substations
and cable sealing end compounds; “ NPG ” means Northern Powergrid (Northeast)
PLC (registered company number 02906593) or Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) PLC
(registered company number 04112320) as appropriate for the NPG Work to which
the relevant provision of this Order applies; “ NPG Works ” means those works
to NPG assets or equipment forming part of the authorised development,
comprising— in respect of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) PLC (registered
company number 02906593), Work Nos. U1, U2, U3, U4, U5; and in respect of
Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) PLC (registered company number 04112320), U6,
U7, U9, U10, U11, U12 and U13; “ Order land ” means the land shown on the land
plan which is within the limits of land to be acquired and described in the
book of reference; “ the Order limits ” means the limits shown on the land
plan and on the works plan within which the authorised development may be
carried out; “ outline landscape mitigation strategy ” means the document of
that description certified by the Secretary of State as the outline landscape
mitigation strategy for the purposes of this Order under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.); “ outline soil management plan ” means the
document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
outline soil management plan for the purposes of this Order under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.); “ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same
meaning as in section 7 (interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;
“ parameter plans ” means the parameter plans included within the design
drawings referenced within Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and environmental
statement), Part 2 with Drawing Numbers DCO_DE/PS/14_01, DCO_DE/PS/15_01,
DCO_DE/PS/16_01, DCO_DE/PS/17_01, DCO_DE/PS/18_01, DCO_DE/PS/19_01,
DCO_DE/PS/20_01; “ permit scheme ” means any scheme made under Part 3 of the
Traffic Management Act 2004  as in force at the date on which this Order is
made; “ public rights of way management plan ” means the document of that
description and certified by the Secretary of State as the public rights of
way management plan for the purposes of this Order under article 48
(certification of plans, etc.); “ relevant drainage authorities ” means the
drainage board for the area of land to which the relevant provision of this
Order applies within the meaning of section 23 (prohibition on obstructions
etc, in watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ; “ relevant planning
authority ” means the local planning authority for the area of land to which
the relevant provision of this Order applies and any successor in function; “
requirements ” means, or a reference to a numbered requirement is to, those
matters set out in Schedule 3 (requirements) to this Order; “ sewerage
undertaker ” means a company appointed under the Water Industry Act 1991  to
provide sewerage services in respect of a geographical area of England and
Wales; “ statutory undertaker ” means any person falling within section 127(8)
(statutory undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act and a public communications
provider as defined in section 151 (interpretation of chapter 1) of the 2003
Act; “ street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 (streets,
street works and undertakers) of the 1991 Act , together with land on the
verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes part of a street;
“ street authority ”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part
3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act ; “ temporary
construction works ” means any of the temporary construction works described
in Schedule 1 (authorised development) to the Order; “ traffic ” has the same
meaning as in section 329(1) (further provisions as to interpretation) of the
1980 Act; “ traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A
(traffic authorities) of the 1984 Act; “ traffic regulation order plan ” means
the document of that description certified as the traffic regulation order
plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under   article
48   (certification of plans, etc.); “ tribunal ” means the Lands Chamber of
the Upper Tribunal; “the undertaker”— in relation to the authorised
development, means National Grid; in relation to the NPG Works and subject to
Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules), includes NPG; and in relation to the
NGN Works and subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules), includes
NGN; “ watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, creeks, ditches, drains,
canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, rhynes, sewers and passages through
which water flows except a public sewer or drain; “ works plan ” means the
document of that description certified as the works plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article  48  (certification of
plans, etc.).

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or restrain or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in
the air-space above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition
of restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over the
land which interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the
benefit of land which is acquired under this Order or which is an interest
otherwise comprised in the Order land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work. All distances for
scheduled linear works referred to in this Order are measured along the centre
line of the limits of deviation for that work. All pylon identification
numbers set out in this Order are identified by reference to the centreline of
such works, and are subject to the limits of deviation for that work, such
that the pylon numbering and location of pylons may adjust in accordance with
the limits of deviation identified in article 5 (limits of deviation). Unless
otherwise specified in Schedule 1 (authorised development), depths in this
Order or on the works plan are measured from the proposed final ground level.

2.4

All areas described in square metres in the book of reference are approximate.

2.5

Any reference in this Order to a work identified by the number of the work is
to be construed as a reference to the work of that number authorised by this
Order.

2.6

Unless otherwise stated, references in this Order to points identified by
letters are to be construed as references to the points so lettered on the
relevant plans.

2.7

The expression “ includes ” is to be construed without limitation unless the
contrary intention appears.

2.8

References in this Order to “document” followed by a number or numbers are
references to documents submitted by the undertaker in support of the
application for development consent that resulted in the making of this Order.

2.9

For the purposes of this Order, “ operational use ” in relation to any part of
the authorised development occurs when that part first transmits electricity
at 275 kilovolts or above.

2.10

References in this Order to any statute, order, regulation or similar
instrument are to be construed as a reference to the statute, order,
regulation or instrument as amended by any subsequent statute, order,
regulation or instrument or as contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and the requirements—

3.1.a

National Grid is granted development consent for the authorised development
set out in Schedule 1 (authorised development) to be carried out within the
Order limits;

3.1.b

subject to article  6  (benefit of the Order), NPG is granted development
consent for the NPG Works; and

3.1.c

subject to article  6  (benefit of the Order) NGN is granted development
consent for the NGN Works.

3.2

National Grid may—

3.2.a

install and keep installed the authorised development; and

3.2.b

remove or replace any electric line including pylons that may require removal
as part of the authorised development.

3.3

NPG may—

3.3.a

subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules), install the NPG Works;

3.3.b

keep installed the underground cables and telemetry included in the NPG Works;
and

3.3.c

remove or replace any electric line including pylons or poles that may require
removal in relation to the NPG Works.

3.4

NGN may—

3.4.a

subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules), install the NGN Works;

3.4.b

keep installed the underground gas pipelines included in the NGN Works; and

3.4.c

remove or replace any pipeline that may require removal in relation to the NGN
Works.

3.5

National Grid may operate and use the electric lines and any other elements of
the authorised development (excluding the NPG Works and the NGN Works) as part
of the high-voltage electricity transmission system in England and Wales.

3.6

NPG may operate and use the electric line and any other elements of the NPG
Works as part of the electricity distribution network.

3.7

NGN may operate and use the gas pipeline and any other elements of the NGN
Works as part of the gas distribution network.

3.8

The authorised development must be constructed and installed in the lines and
situations shown on the works plan, subject to article 5 (limits of deviation)
and to Schedule 3 (requirements).

3.9

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

3.10

Schedule 2 (plans, drawings and environmental statement) has effect.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

4

4.1

National Grid may at any time maintain the authorised development (excluding
the NPG Works and the NGN Works), except to the extent that this Order or an
agreement made under this Order provides otherwise.

4.2

NPG may at any time maintain the NPG Works, except to the extent that this
Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides otherwise.

4.3

NGN may at any time maintain the NGN Works, except to the extent that this
Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides otherwise.

#### Limits of deviation

5

5.1

In carrying out, maintaining or diverting the authorised development for which
it is granted development consent by article 3 (development consent etc.
granted by the Order) the undertaker may—

5.1.a

deviate laterally from the centreline for the linear works forming part of the
authorised development shown on the works plan within the limits of deviation
relating to that work shown on those plans;

5.1.b

deviate laterally from the situations for the non-linear works forming part of
the authorised development shown on the works plan and design drawings within
the limits of deviation relating to that work shown on the design drawings;

5.1.c

in respect of the overhead lines and any pylon and temporary structures
deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development shown on the
design drawings to any extent upwards not exceeding 6 metres;

5.1.d

deviate vertically for the linear works to such extent downwards as the
undertaker considers necessary or convenient; and

5.1.e

carry out construction activities for the purposes of the authorised
development anywhere within the Order limits.

5.2

Without prejudice to paragraphs (5) and (6) of article 3 (development consent
etc. granted by the Order) the removal, clearance, decommissioning and
demolition of any existing electric line may take place within the Order
limits.

5.3

In respect of the non-linear works forming part of the authorised development—

5.3.a

the undertaker may deviate to any extent upwards not exceeding the maximum
height shown on the relevant parameter plans measured from the finished site
levels shown on the corresponding elevation plans; and

5.3.b

the authorised development is to be carried out within any parameters shown on
the parameter plans within the design drawings.

5.4

The maximum limits of deviation specified in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (c) and
paragraph (3) do not apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to the
Secretary of State’s satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority and any other person the
Secretary of State considers appropriate having regard to the proposed
deviation in question and the statutory roles and responsibilities of such
person, certifies accordingly that a deviation in excess of these limits would
not give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental
effects to those identified in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of the Order

6

6.1

Subject to article 7 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order) the provisions
of this Order are to have effect solely for the benefit of—

6.1.a

National Grid in respect of the authorised development;

6.1.b

subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules), NPG in respect of the NPG
Works; and

6.1.c

subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules), NGN in respect of the NGN
Works.

6.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply where the consent granted by this Order is
expressed to be for the benefit of owners and occupiers of land, statutory
undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised development.

6.3

Schedule 5 (benefit of the Order rules) has effect.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of the Order

7

7.1

National Grid in relation to the authorised development, NPG in relation to
the NPG Works and NGN in relation to the NGN Works, may, with the consent of
the Secretary of State—

7.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between National Grid, NPG or NGN and the transferee; or

7.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between National
Grid, NPG or NGN and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of
this Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

7.2

Where a transfer or grant has been made in accordance with paragraph (1)
references in this Order to National Grid, NPG or NGN (as the case may be),
except in paragraphs (4) and (5), is to include references to the transferee
or the lessee.

7.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (1) are subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker, save where those
benefits or rights are exercised by a statutory undertaker (which for the
purposes of this article includes any entity listed in paragraph (7)), or by
an owner or occupier of land pursuant to paragraph (2) of article  25
(compulsory acquisition of rights) of this Order, in which case liability for
the payment of compensation remains with National Grid.

7.4

Any rights or benefits in relation to the NPG Works that are transferred or
granted by NPG under paragraph (1) are subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the
Order rules) as if they had remained exercisable by NPG.

7.5

Any rights or benefits in relation to the NGN Works that are transferred or
granted by NGN under paragraph (1) are subject to Schedule 5 (benefit of the
Order rules) as if they had remained exercisable by NGN.

7.6

The consent of the Secretary of State under this article is not required where
the powers of article  25(1)  (compulsory acquisition of rights) are, with the
consent of the undertaker given under article  25(2)  (compulsory acquisition
of rights), proposed to be exercised by a statutory undertaker rather than by
National Grid.

7.7

The consent of the Secretary of State is not required under this article,
where the transfer or grant is made, for the purpose of diverting or replacing
their owned or managed structures, apparatus or equipment which forms part of
the authorised development described in Schedule 1 and contained within the
Order limits, to—

7.7.a

Openreach Limited (Company Number 10690039) whose registered office is at
Kelvin House 123 Judd Street London WC1H 9NP;

7.7.b

EE Limited (Company Number 02382161) whose registered office is at 1 Braham
Street, London, United Kingdom, E1 8EE;

7.7.c

Hutchison 3G UK Limited (Company Number 03885486) whose registered office is
at 450 Longwater Avenue, Green Park, Reading, Berkshire, England, RG2 6GF;

7.7.d

Vodafone Limited (Company Number 01471587), whose registered office is at
Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN; and

7.7.e

Yorkshire Water Services Limited (Company Number 02366682) whose registered
office is at Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford, West Yorkshire, BD6 2SZ.

#### Planning Permission

8

If planning permission is issued or granted pursuant to the 1990 Act for
development any part of which is within the Order limits that is—

8.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; and

8.b

required to complete or enable the construction, use or operation of any part
of the development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of
the planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this
Order.

#### Application of the 1990 Act

9

9.1

Where land within the Order limits is used for temporary construction works,
section 57(2) (planning permission required for development) of the 1990 Act
applies as if the development consent granted by this Order were planning
permission granted for a limited period.

9.2

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as not being operational land for the purposes of that Act)
of the 1990 Act.

9.3

In the exercise of the power under paragraphs (1) and (2) of article 11
(street works) the undertaker is to be deemed to be the highway authority for
the purposes of section 55(2)(b) (meaning of “ development ” and “ new
development ”) of the 1990 Act.

#### Application of the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010

10

10.1

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 208 (liability) of the 2008 Act, for
the purposes of regulation 6 of the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations
2010  any building comprised in the authorised development is deemed to be—

10.1.a

a building into which people do not normally go; or

10.1.b

a building into which people go only intermittently for the purpose of
inspecting or maintaining fixed plant or machinery.

### STREETS

#### Street works

11

11.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, or for
purposes ancillary to it, enter upon so much of any of the streets specified
in column (2) of Schedule 6 (streets subject to street works) as is within the
Order limits and may without the consent of the street authority—

11.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel within or under it;

11.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street, or carry out any works to strengthen or
repair the street;

11.1.c

remove or use all earth and materials in or under the street;

11.1.d

place and keep apparatus in the street (including signage);

11.1.e

maintain, renew or alter apparatus in or on the street or change its position;

11.1.f

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines required by the highway
authority;

11.1.g

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

11.1.h

carry out re-lining and placement of new temporary markings; and

11.1.i

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs  (a)  to  (h) .

11.2

Without limiting the scope of the powers conferred by paragraph 1 but subject
to the consent of the street authority, which consent must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised
development, or for purposes ancillary to it, enter on so much of any other
street whether or not within the Order limits, for the purposes set out at
sub-paragraph 1(a) to (i) and paragraph 3 of article 12 (application of the
1991 Act) applies.

11.3

If a street authority that receives an application for consent under paragraph
(2) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28 days beginning
with the date on which the application was received, that authority will be
deemed to have granted consent.

11.4

The authority given by paragraph (1) or (2) is a statutory right for the
purposes of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

11.5

The powers conferred in paragraphs (1) and (2) are without limitation of the
powers of the undertaker under the 1989 Act  .

11.6

In this article “ apparatus ” has the meaning given in Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

11.7

Any application for consent under paragraph (2) must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (3) apply to that application.

#### Application of the 1991 Act

12

12.1

Works carried out under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of
or includes a carriageway must be treated for the purposes of Part 3 of the
1991 Act (street works in England and Wales) as major highway works if—

12.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of sub-paragraphs (a), (c) to (e),
(g) and (h) of section 86(3) (highway authorities, highways and related
matters) of the 1991 Act; or

12.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the highway authority, might
have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64 of the
1980 Act (dual carriageways and roundabouts) or section 184 (vehicle crossings
over footways and verges) of the 1980 Act.

12.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act, in relation to works which are major highway works
by virtue of paragraph (1), references to the highway authority concerned are
to be construed as references to the undertaker.

12.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act (including any equivalent or modified
provisions in any permit scheme) do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers of this Order—

12.3.a

section 53  (the street works register);

12.3.b

section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works);

12.3.c

section 56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);

12.3.d

section 58  (restrictions on works following substantial road works);

12.3.e

section 58A  (restriction on works following substantial street works);

12.3.f

section 73A  (power to require undertaker to re-surface street);

12.3.g

section 73B  (power to specify timing etc. of re-surfacing);

12.3.h

section 73C  (materials, workmanship and standard of re-surfacing);

12.3.i

section 78A  (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by undertaker); and

12.3.j

Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial street works).

12.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the carrying out of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with necessary modifications) in
relation to any closure, alteration or diversion of a street of a temporary
nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article  14  (temporary
closure of streets, cycle tracks and public rights of way) whether or not the
closure, alteration or diversion constitutes street works within the meaning
of that Act.

12.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act referred to in paragraph (4) are—

12.5.a

section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph (6);

12.5.b

section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph (6);

12.5.c

section 57  (notice of emergency works);

12.5.d

section 59  (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works);

12.5.e

section 60  (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

12.5.f

section 68  (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

12.5.g

section 69  (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

12.5.h

section 71  (materials, workmanship and standard of reinstatement);

12.5.i

section 76  (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and

12.5.j

section 77  (liability for cost of use of alternative route);

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (j).

12.6

Sections 54 (advance notice of certain works) and 55 (notice of starting date
of works) of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as if
references in section 57 (notice of emergency works) of that Act to emergency
works were a reference to a temporary closure, stopping up, alteration or
diversion (as the case may be) required in a case of emergency.

#### Power to alter layout, etc. of streets

13

13.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development—

13.1.a

permanently alter the layout of, or carry out any works in, a street specified
in column (1) Part 1 of Schedule 7 (streets subject to permanent alteration of
layout) in the manner specified in relation to that street in column (2); and

13.1.b

temporarily alter the layout of, or carry out any works in, a street specified
in column (1) Part 2 of Schedule 7 (streets subject to temporary alteration of
layout) in the manner specified in relation to that street in column (2).

13.2

Without limitation on the specific powers conferred by paragraph (1), but
subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing
and maintaining the authorised development, permanently or temporarily alter
the layout of any street within or adjacent to the Order limits and the layout
of any street having a junction with such a street; and, without limiting the
scope of this paragraph, the undertaker may—

13.2.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track, central reservation or verge within
the street;

13.2.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such kerb, footpath, footway,
cycle track, central reservation or verge;

13.2.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street;

13.2.d

execute any works to widen or alter the alignment of pavements;

13.2.e

make and maintain crossovers and passing places;

13.2.f

execute any works of surfacing or resurfacing of the highway;

13.2.g

carry out works for the provision or alteration of parking places, loading
bays and cycle tracks;

13.2.h

execute any works necessary to alter or provide facilities for the management
and protection of pedestrians; and

13.2.i

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines required by the highway
authority.

13.3

The undertaker must restore to the reasonable satisfaction of the street
authority any street that has been temporarily altered under this article.

13.4

The powers conferred by paragraph (2) must not be exercised without the
consent of the street authority (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld
or delayed).

13.5

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
received, it is deemed to have granted consent.

13.6

Any application for consent under paragraph (4) must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (5) apply to that application.

#### Temporary closure of streets, cycle tracks and public rights of way

14

14.1

During and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised development, the
undertaker may temporarily close, alter or divert any street, cycle track or
public right of way shown on the access, rights of way and public rights of
navigation plans or within the Order limits and may for any reasonable time—

14.1.a

divert the traffic from the street or public right of way; and

14.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street,
cycle track or public right of way.

14.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use as a
temporary working site any street, cycle track or public right of way which
has been temporarily closed, altered or diverted under the powers conferred by
this article.

14.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street, cycle track or public right of way affected by the
temporary closure, alteration or diversion under this article if there would
otherwise be no such reasonable access.

14.4

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may
temporarily close, alter or divert the streets, cycle tracks or public rights
of way specified in column (2) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 8 (streets, cycle
tracks or public rights of way to be temporarily closed) to the extent
specified, by reference to the letters and numbers shown on the access, rights
of way and public rights of navigation plan, in column (3) of that Schedule,
and, if it does so in respect of a street, cycle track or public right of way
specified in Part 1 of Schedule 8, must provide the temporary diversion as
specified in column (4) of that Part.

14.5

The undertaker must not temporarily close, alter or divert—

14.5.a

any street, cycle track or public right of way specified as mentioned in
paragraph (4) without first consulting the street authority; and

14.5.b

any other street, cycle track or public right of way without the consent of
the street authority which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent.

14.6

Where the undertaker provides a temporary diversion under paragraph (4), the
temporary alternative route is not required to be of a higher standard than
the temporarily closed street, cycle track or public right of way in column
(2) of Part 1 of Schedule 8 (streets, cycle tracks or public rights of way to
be temporarily closed).

14.7

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

14.8

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (5)(b) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end
of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
received, it is deemed to have granted consent.

14.9

Any application for consent under paragraph  (5)(b)  must include a statement
that the provisions of paragraph  (8)  apply to that application.

#### Use of private roads for construction

15

15.1

The undertaker may use any private road within the Order limits for the
passage of persons or vehicles (with or without materials, plant and
machinery) for the purposes of, or in connection with, the construction of the
authorised development.

15.2

The undertaker must compensate the person liable for the repair of a road to
which paragraph (1) applies for any loss or damage which that person may
suffer by reason of the exercise of the power conferred by paragraph (1).

15.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of such compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Access to works

16

16.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development—

16.1.a

form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the
location specified in column (2) of Schedule 9 (access to works); and

16.1.b

with the consent of the relevant planning authority (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), after consultation with the relevant
highway authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve
existing means of access, at such locations within the Order limits as the
undertaker reasonably requires for the purposes of the authorised development.

16.2

If a relevant planning authority which receives an application for consent
under paragraph (1)(b) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before
the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the
application was received, it is deemed to have granted consent.

16.3

Any application for consent under paragraph (1)(b) must include a statement
that the provisions of paragraph (2) apply to that application.

#### Construction, alteration and maintenance of streets

17

17.1

Any street (other than any private streets) to be constructed under this Order
must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and
must, unless otherwise agreed with the street authority, be maintained
(including any culverts or other structures laid under that part of the
highway) by the street authority from its completion.

17.2

Where a street is altered or diverted under this Order, the altered or
diverted part of the street must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority and must, unless otherwise agreed with the street
authority, be maintained (including any culverts or other structures laid
under that part of the highway) by the street authority from its completion.

17.3

Where new land not previously part of the public highway is to form part of
the public highway further to the provisions of this Order it must, unless
otherwise agreed with the street authority, be deemed as dedicated as part of
the public highway on the expiry of the period of 12 months from its
completion.

17.4

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

17.5

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (4), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

17.5.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

17.5.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

17.5.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

17.5.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

17.5.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed.

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and that the
competent person had carried out those instructions.

17.6

In determining who is the street authority in relation to a street for the
purposes of Part III of the 1991 Act, any obligation of the undertaker to
maintain the street under paragraph (1) or (2) must be disregarded.

#### Agreements with street authorities

18

18.1

A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect
to—

18.1.a

the construction of any new street including any structure carrying the street
over or under an electric line authorised by this Order;

18.1.b

the maintenance of the structure of any bridge or tunnel carrying a street
over or under an electric line authorised by this Order;

18.1.c

any temporary closure, stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street
authorised by this Order; or

18.1.d

the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 11
(street works); or

18.1.e

such other matters as the parties may agree.

18.2

Such an agreement may, without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1)—

18.2.a

make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this
Order which relates to the street in question;

18.2.b

include an agreement between the undertaker and the street authority
specifying a reasonable time for the completion of the works;

18.2.c

contain such terms as to payment and other matters as the parties consider
appropriate; and

18.2.d

such other matters as the parties may agree.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

19

19.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for that purpose
may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order
limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public
sewer or drain.

19.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

19.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

19.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

19.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and

19.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

19.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming
part of a main river.

19.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
the powers conferred by this article is as free as may be practicable from
gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

19.7

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12(1)(b) (requirement for an environmental permit) of the
2016 Regulations.

19.8

This article does not permit any activity listed in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule
21 (water discharge activities) to the 2016 Regulations.

19.9

In this article—

19.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, a harbour authority within the meaning of
section 57 (interpretation) of the Harbours Act 1964  , an internal drainage
board, a joint planning board, a local authority, the highway authority, a
National Park Authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

19.9.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

19.10

 In relation to any works executed

#### Protective work to land, buildings, structures, apparatus or equipment

20

20.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any land, building, structure,
apparatus or equipment lying within the Order limits or which may be affected
by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary or
expedient.

20.2

Protective works may be carried out—

20.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the land,
building, structure, apparatus or equipment of any part of the authorised
development; or

20.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the land, building, structure, apparatus or equipment at any time
up to the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which that
part of the authorised development is first brought into operational use.

20.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised, the undertaker may enter and survey—

20.3.a

any land, building, structure, apparatus or equipment, falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage; and

20.3.b

where reasonably necessary, any land which is adjacent to the land, building,
structure, apparatus or equipment, whether or not within Order limits,

and place on, leave on and remove from the building, structure, apparatus or
equipment any apparatus and equipment for use in connection with the survey.

20.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to land,
building, structure, apparatus or equipment the undertaker may (subject to
paragraphs (5) and (6))—

20.4.a

enter the land, building, structure, apparatus or equipment and any land
within its curtilage; and

20.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

20.5

Before exercising—

20.5.a

a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to land, buildings,
structures, apparatus or equipment;

20.5.b

a right under paragraph (2) to enter land, building, structure, apparatus or
equipment and land within its curtilage;

20.5.c

a right under paragraph (3)(a) to enter any land, building, structure,
apparatus or equipment and land within its curtilage; or

20.5.d

a right under paragraph (3)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

20.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (5)(c) or (5)(d), the owner
or occupier of the land, building, structure, apparatus, equipment or
curtilage land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice within the period of
10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was served, require the
question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out the protective
works or to enter the land, building, structure, apparatus, equipment or
curtilage land to be referred to arbitration under article 52 (arbitration).

20.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any of the land,
building, structure, apparatus, equipment or curtilage land in relation to
which rights under this article have been exercised for any loss or damage
arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

20.8

Where—

20.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to the land, building,
structure, apparatus or equipment; and

20.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development constructed in the vicinity of the land, building,
structure, apparatus or equipment is first brought into operational use it
appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect the building
against damage caused by the construction or use of that part of the
authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land, building,
structure, apparatus or equipment for any loss or damage sustained by them.

20.9

Without affecting article 31 (no double recovery), nothing in this article
relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay compensation under section
152  of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance).

20.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of
disputed compensation).

20.11

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to entry onto, or possession of, land under this article to the
same extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this
Order by virtue of section 125  (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act.

20.12

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to land, building, structure,
apparatus or equipment means—

20.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the land, building, structure, apparatus
or equipment by the construction, maintenance or use of the authorised
development; and

20.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the land, building, structure, apparatus or equipment by the construction,
maintenance or use of the authorised development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

21

21.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

21.1.a

survey, monitor or investigate the land ... (including any watercourses,
groundwater, static water bodies or vegetation on the land);

21.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), survey, monitor or
investigate the land and any buildings on that land for the purpose of
investigating the potential effects of the authorised development on that land
or buildings on that land or for enabling the construction, use and
maintenance of the authorised development;

21.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , make trial holes,
boreholes, excavations or take horizontal cores in such positions on the land
as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer,
subsoil, groundwater and other materials below ground level or remove soil,
rock, water or other material samples and discharge water from sampling
operations on to the land;

21.1.d

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations and monitoring on the land, including making
any excavations or trial holes on the land for such purposes; and

21.1.e

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus (including but not
limited to welfare facilities and security facilities) for use in connection
with the survey, monitoring or investigation of land, making of trial holes,
boreholes, excavations, cores, or the carrying out of ecological or
archaeological investigations or monitoring.

21.2

The power conferred by paragraph (1) includes without prejudice to the
generality of that paragraph the power to take, and process, samples of or
from any of the following found on, in or over the land—

21.2.a

water;

21.2.b

air;

21.2.c

soil or rock;

21.2.d

flora;

21.2.e

bodily excretions or dead bodies of non-human creatures; or

21.2.f

any non-living thing present as a result of human action.

21.3

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1), unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

21.4

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

21.4.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so;

21.4.b

must, before entering the land, provide in the notice details of the purpose
specified in paragraph (1) to survey and investigate the land; and

21.4.c

may take onto the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey, monitoring or investigation or to make the trial holes.

21.5

No trial holes, boreholes, excavations or horizontal cores may be made under
this article—

21.5.a

on land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the
relevant highway authority; or

21.5.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority;

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

21.6

As soon as reasonably practicable following the completion of any activities
carried out under paragraph (1), the undertaker must remove any apparatus and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

21.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of disputed compensation).

21.8

If a highway authority or street authority which receives an application for
consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28 days of
receiving the application for consent—

21.8.a

under sub-paragraph (5)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

21.8.b

under sub-paragraph (5)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

21.9

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

21.10

Any application for consent under paragraph (5) must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (8) apply to that application.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

22

22.1

National Grid may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

22.2

This article is subject to article 23 (compulsory acquisition of land –
incorporation of the mineral code), article 24 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land and rights compulsorily), paragraph (3) of article
25  (compulsory acquisition of rights), articles 36 (temporary use of land by
National Grid), 37 (temporary use of land by NPG) and 38 (temporary use of
land by NGN).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

23

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the following modifications—

23.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

23.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ; and

23.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land and rights compulsorily

24

24.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made (and subject to article 32 (Modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act) and article 33 (Application of the 1981 Act))—

24.1.a

no notice to treat may be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act (which makes
provision for compulsory purchase under the Acquisition of Land Act 1981); and

24.1.b

no declaration may be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article  33  (application of the 1981 Act).

24.2

The authority conferred by articles 36 (temporary use of land by National
Grid), 37 (temporary use of land by NPG) and 38 (temporary use of land by NGN)
ceases at the end of the period referred to in paragraph (1), except that
nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker, NPG or NGN from remaining
in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was entered
and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights

25

25.1

Subject to the provisions of this article the undertaker may acquire
compulsorily the rights, and impose the restrictions, over the Order land,
described in the book of reference and detailed in Schedule 13 (land in which
only new rights and restrictive covenants etc, may be acquired), by creating
them as well as by acquiring rights and the benefits of restrictions already
in existence.

25.2

This article is subject to articles 36 (temporary use of land by National
Grid), 37 (temporary use of land by NPG) and 38 (temporary use of land by
NGN).

25.3

Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act (other provisions as to divided land) as
substituted by paragraph 5 of Schedule 10 to this Order (modification of
compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights),
where the undertaker acquires a right over land or imposes a restriction under
paragraph (1) the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in
that land.

25.4

Schedule 10 to this Order has effect for the purpose of modifying the
enactments relating to compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in
their application in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article
of a right over land by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restriction.

25.5

In any case where the acquisition of rights or the imposition of a restriction
under paragraph (1) is required for the purpose of diverting, replacing or
protecting apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the undertaker may, with the
consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power to acquire such rights
or impose such restrictions to the relevant statutory undertaker other than in
respect of the NGN Works or the NPG Works where no such consent is required.

25.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were exercised
by the undertaker.

25.7

Nothing in this article authorises the acquisition of rights over, or the
imposition of restrictions affecting, an interest which is for the time being
held by or on behalf of the Crown.

#### Extinguishment and suspension of private rights

26

26.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to compulsory acquisition or the compulsory
acquisition of rights or the imposition of restrictions under the Order
(including those shown on the extinguishment of easements, servitudes and
other private rights plan) shall be extinguished or suspended in so far as
their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right
acquired or the burden of the restriction imposed—

26.1.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the land or of the right or the benefit
of the restriction by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement; or

26.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act in pursuance of the right; or

26.1.c

on the carrying out of any activity authorised by the Order which interferes
with or breaches those rights,

whichever is the earliest.

26.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights and restrictive
covenants over land owned by the undertaker which, being within the Order
limits, is required for the purposes of this Order, are extinguished on the
carrying out of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or
breaches such rights or such restrictive covenants.

26.3

Subject to the provisions of this article and article 27 (Extinguishment of
private rights and restrictive covenants relating to apparatus removed from
land subject to temporary possession), all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under
this Order are suspended and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker
remains in lawful possession of the land and in so far as their continuation
would be inconsistent with the exercise of the powers under this Order or a
breach of a restriction as to the user of land arising by virtue of a
contract.

26.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restrictive covenant under this article is entitled to compensation
in accordance with the terms of section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in
case where no right to claim in nuisance) to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

26.5

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138 of
the 2008 Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory
undertakers etc.) or article  40  (statutory undertakers) applies.

26.6

Paragraphs (1) to (4) have effect subject to—

26.6.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

26.6.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

26.6.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

26.6.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

26.6.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

26.6.b

any agreement made, in so far as it relates to the authorised development, at
any time between the undertaker and the person in or to whom the right or
restrictive covenant in question is vested, belongs or benefits.

26.7

If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (6)(b)—

26.7.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

26.7.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person, it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving
title, whether the title was derived before or after the making of the
agreement.

26.8

A reference in this article to private rights and restrictive covenants over
land includes any trust, incident, easement, wayleave, liberty, privilege,
right or advantage annexed to land (including any land forming part of a
common, open space or fuel or field garden allotment) and adversely affecting
other land, including any natural right to support and including restrictions
as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract.

#### Extinguishment of private rights and restrictive covenants relating to apparatus removed from land subject to temporary possession

27

27.1

This article applies to any Order land specified in Part 1 (National Grid),
Part 2 (NPG) and Part 3 (NGN) of Schedule 11 (extinguishment of private rights
and restrictive covenants relating to apparatus removed from land subject to
temporary possession) and any other Order land of which National Grid takes
temporary possession under article  36  (temporary use of land by National
Grid) or NPG takes temporary possession under article 37 (temporary use of
land by NPG) or NGN takes temporary possession under article 38 (temporary use
of land by NGN).

27.2

All private rights or restrictive covenants in relation to apparatus belonging
to National Grid, NPG or NGN removed from any land to which this article
applies are extinguished from the date on which National Grid, NPG or NGN give
up temporary possession of that land under articles 36(5) and 36(6), or 37(5)
and 37(6), or 38(5) and 38(6), as the case may be.

27.3

The extinguishment of rights by paragraph (2) does not give rise to any cause
of action relating to the presence on or in the land of any foundations (save
for those which lie less than 1.5 metres underground) referred to in articles
36(5)(c) and 36(6)(c), or 37(5)(c) and 37(6)(c), or 38(5)(c) and 38(6)(c)
(National Grid, NPG and NGN not required to remove foundations when giving up
temporary possession).

27.4

Schedule 11 (extinguishment of private rights and restrictive covenants
relating to apparatus removed from land subject to temporary possession) has
effect.

#### Power to override easements and other rights

28

28.1

Any authorised activity which takes place on land within the Order limits
(whether the activity is undertaken by the undertaker or by any person
deriving title from the undertaker or by any contractors, servants or agents
of the undertaker) is authorised by this Order if it is done in accordance
with the terms of this Order, notwithstanding that it involves—

28.1.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

28.1.b

a breach of a restriction as to the user of land arising by virtue of a
contract.

28.2

In this article “ authorised activity ” means—

28.2.a

the erection, construction or maintenance of any part of the authorised
development;

28.2.b

the exercise of any power authorised by this Order; or

28.2.c

the use of any land (including the temporary use of land).

28.3

The interests and rights to which this article applies include any easement,
wayleave, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land (including
any land forming part of a common, open space or fuel or field garden
allotment) and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to
support including restrictions as to the user of land arising by the virtue of
a contract.

28.4

Where an interest, right or restriction is overridden by paragraph (1),
compensation—

28.4.a

is payable under section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) or
10 (further provision as to compensation for injurious affection) of the 1965
Act; and

28.4.b

is to be assessed in the same manner and subject to the same rules as in the
case of other compensation under those sections where—

28.4.b.i

the compensation is to be estimated in connection with a purchase under that
Act; or

28.4.b.ii

the injury arises from the execution of works on or use of land acquired under
that Act.

28.5

Where a person deriving title under the undertaker by whom the land in
question was acquired—

28.5.a

is liable to pay compensation by virtue of paragraph (4); and

28.5.b

fails to discharge that liability,

the liability is enforceable against the undertaker in accordance with section
204(3) (compensation for overridden easements etc) of the 2016 Act.

28.6

Nothing in this article is to be construed as authorising any act or omission
on the part of any person which is actionable at the suit of any person on any
grounds other than such an interference or breach as is mentioned in paragraph
(1) of this article.

28.7

In this article “ authorised activity ” means—

28.7.a

the erection, construction or maintenance of any part of the authorised
development;

28.7.b

the exercise of any power authorised by this Order; or

28.7.c

the use of any land (including the temporary use of land).

#### Disregard of certain interests and improvements

29

29.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

29.1.a

any interest in land; or

29.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

29.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works constructed or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned.

#### Set-off for enhancement in value of retained land

30

30.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

30.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article  25  (compulsory acquisition of rights), the tribunal
must set off against the value of the rights so acquired—

30.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

30.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

30.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs (1) and (2) as if this Order
were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### No double recovery

31

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract or any rule of law, or under
two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

32

32.1

—Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

32.2

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 of the Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating
to applications for orders granting development consent) , the five year
period mentioned in article  24  (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land and rights compulsorily) of the National Grid (Yorkshire Green
Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024” .

32.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

32.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

32.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

32.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 24 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land and rights compulsorily) of the National Grid
(Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024” .

32.5

In Schedule 2A  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

32.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

32.5.a.2

But see article  34  (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) on the National
Grid (Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order
2024, which excludes the acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this
schedule

; and

32.5.b

after paragraph 29, end insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

32.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under articles  20  (protective works to buildings),
articles  36  (temporary use of land by National Grid),  37  (temporary use of
land by NPG) and  38  (temporary use of land by NGN) or  39  (temporary use of
land for maintaining the authorised development) of the National Grid
(Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

33

33.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

33.2

The 1981 Act, as so applied, has effect with the following modifications.

33.3

In section 1 (application of Act) for subsection (2) substitute—

33.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

33.4

In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration), subsection (2) is
omitted.

33.5

Section 5A is omitted .

33.6

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act must be construed as references to
the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of
compulsory acquisition provisions) to the compulsory acquisition of land under
this Order.

33.7

In section 5B(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118(f) (legal challenges relating to applications for
orders granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year
period mentioned in article 24 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land and rights compulsorily) of the National Grid (Yorkshire Green
Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent Order 2024” .

33.8

In section 6  (notices after execution of declaration), in subsection (1)(b),
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

33.9

In section (7)  (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), omit
“(as modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

33.10

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

33.10.2

But see article 34(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the
National Grid (Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project) Development Consent
Order 2024, which excludes the acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from
this Schedule.

33.11

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125  (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 32
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

34

34.1

The undertaker may compulsorily acquire so much of, or such rights, and impose
such restrictions, in the subsoil of, or the air-space of, the land referred
to in article  25  (compulsory acquisition of rights) and article  22
(compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any purpose for which
that land may be acquired or for which rights over or under the land may be
acquired under those provisions instead of acquiring the rights or imposing
restrictions over the whole of the land.

34.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, or imposes any
restriction in the subsoil of, or the air-space over, land under paragraph
(1), the undertaker is not required to acquire an interest in any other part
of the land.

34.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

34.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 32 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

34.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

34.3.c

section 153(4A)(c) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

#### Use of subsoil under or airspace over streets

35

35.1

The undertaker may enter on and use so much of the subsoil of, or airspace
over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the purposes
of the authorised development or for any other purpose ancillary to the
authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for those purposes.

35.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

35.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

35.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

35.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

35.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of
that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act .

35.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) of the 1991 Act  applies in respect of measures of which the
allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land by National Grid

36

36.1

National Grid may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development—

36.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

36.1.a.i

so much of the land specified in column (1) of Part 1 of Schedule 12 (land of
which temporary possession may be taken) to exercise the powers described in
the book of reference and for the purpose specified in relation to that land
in column (2) of Part 1 of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (3) of Part 1 of that Schedule; and

36.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 of the 1965 Act (other than in connection with the
acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under section 4
of the 1981 Act;

36.1.b

remove any electric line, electrical plant, buildings, archaeological
artefact, structures, pylons, apparatus and vegetation from that land;

36.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

36.1.d

construct any works specified in relation to that land in column (2) of Part 1
of Schedule 12, or any other mitigation works.

36.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article, National Grid must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

36.3

National Grid must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

36.3.a

in the case of land referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Part 1 of Schedule 12, or

36.3.b

in the case of land referred to in paragraph 1(a)(ii), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for which
temporary possession of the land was taken unless National Grid has, by the
end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act
or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

36.4

National Grid must provide the owner of any land of which temporary possession
has been taken under this article with written notice of the date of
completion of the works for which temporary possession was taken within 28
days of the completion of those works.

36.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under paragraph (1)(a)(i), unless otherwise agreed with the owners of
the land, National Grid must remove all temporary works and restore the land
to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land, but National Grid is
not required to—

36.5.a

replace a building, structure, apparatus, equipment, archaeological artefact,
electric line, electrical plant or pylon removed under this article;

36.5.b

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph
(1)(d) insofar as the element of works shown in column (4) of Part 1 of
Schedule 12 is concerned;

36.5.c

remove any foundations to a depth greater than 1.5 metres below adjoining
ground level which had been placed in that land to support pylons and electric
lines constructed upon those foundations; or

36.5.d

remove any pylons or electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under, or in that land as part of the authorised
development.

36.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under paragraph (1)(a)(ii), unless otherwise agreed by the owners of the
land, National Grid must either acquire the land or interest on, over, or in
the land in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3)(b) or remove all
temporary works and restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the
owners of the land; but National Grid is not required to—

36.6.a

replace a building, structure, apparatus, equipment, archaeological artefact,
electric line, electrical plant or pylon removed under this article;

36.6.b

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph
(1)(d) insofar as the element of works shown in column (4) of Part 1 of
Schedule 12 is concerned;

36.6.c

remove any foundations to a depth greater than 1.5 metres below adjoining
ground level which had been placed in that land to support pylons and electric
lines constructed upon those foundations; or

36.6.d

remove any pylons or electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under, or in that land as part of the authorised
development.

36.7

National Grid must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

36.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (7),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

36.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (7).

36.10

Where National Grid takes possession of land under this article, National Grid
is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

36.11

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

36.12

Nothing in this article prevents National Grid from taking temporary
possession more than once in relation to any land specified in Part 1 of
Schedule 12.

36.13

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under this article 36, article 37 (temporary
use of land by NPG), 38 (temporary use of land by NGN) and article 39
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of this
Order do not apply in relation to the construction, operation and maintenance
of the authorised development.

#### Temporary use of land by NPG

37

37.1

NPG may, in connection with the carrying out of the NPG works—

37.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

37.1.a.i

so much of the land specified in column (1) of Part 2 of Schedule 12 (land of
which temporary possession may be taken) to exercise the powers described in
the book of reference and for the purpose specified in relation to that land
in column (2) of Part 2 of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (3) of Part 2 of that Schedule; and

37.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of the NPG works in respect of which no notice
of entry has been served under section 11 of the 1965 Act (other than in
connection with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been
made under section 4 of the 1981 Act;

37.1.b

remove any electric lines, electrical plant, buildings, archaeological
artefact, structures, pylons, apparatus and vegetation from that land;

37.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

37.1.d

construct any works specified in relation to that land in column (2) of Part 2
of Schedule 12, or any other mitigation works.

37.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article, NPG must serve notice of the intended entry on the
owners and occupiers of the land.

37.3

NPG must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain in
possession of any land under this article—

37.3.a

in the case of land referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Part 2 of Schedule 12, or

37.3.b

in the case of land referred to in paragraph 1(a)(ii), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for which
temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by the
end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act
or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

37.4

NPG must provide the owner of any land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article with written notice of the date of completion of the
works for which temporary possession was taken within 28 days of the
completion of those works.

37.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under paragraph (1)(a)(i), NPG must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
NPG is not required to—

37.5.a

replace a building, structure, archaeological artefact, electric line,
electrical plant or pylon removed under this article;

37.5.b

remove any pylons, electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under or in that land as part of the NPG works;

37.5.c

remove any foundations to a depth greater than 1.5 metres below adjoining
ground level which had been placed in that land to support pylons and electric
lines constructed upon those foundations;

37.5.d

remove any pylons or electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under or in that land as part of the NPG Works or

37.5.e

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph 1(d)
insofar as the element of works shown in column (4) of Part 2 of Schedule 12
is concerned.

37.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under paragraph (1)(a)(ii), unless otherwise agreed by the owners of the
land, NPG must either acquire the interest on, over, or in the land in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3)(b) or remove all temporary
works and restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the
land; but NPG is not required to—

37.6.a

replace a building, structure, archaeological artefact, electric line,
electrical plant or pylon removed under this article;

37.6.b

remove any pylons, electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under or in that land as part of the NPG works;

37.6.c

remove any foundations to a depth greater than 1.5 metres below adjoining
ground level which had been placed in that land to support pylons and electric
lines constructed upon those foundations; or

37.6.d

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph 1(d)
insofar as the element of works shown in column (4) of Part 2 of Schedule 12
is concerned.

37.7

NPG must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

37.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (7),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

37.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (7).

37.10

Where NPG takes possession of land under this article, NPG is not required to
acquire the land or any interest in it.

37.11

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

37.12

Nothing in this article prevents—

37.12.a

NPG from taking temporary possession more than once in relation to any land
specified in Part 2 of Schedule 12; or

37.12.b

National Grid from taking temporary possession more than once in relation to
any land specified in Schedule 12.

#### Temporary use of land by NGN

38

38.1

NGN may, in connection with the carrying out of the NGN works—

38.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

38.1.a.i

so much of the land specified in column (1) of Schedule 12 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) to exercise the powers described in the
book of reference and for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of Part 2 of that Schedule relating to the part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of Part 2 of that Schedule; and

38.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of the NGN works in respect of which no notice
of entry has been served under section 11 of the 1965 Act (other than in
connection with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been
made under section 4 of the 1981 Act;

38.1.b

remove any electric lines, plant, buildings, structures, pylons,
archaeological artefact, apparatus, equipment and vegetation from that land;

38.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

38.1.d

construct any works specified in relation to that land in column (2) of Part 2
of Schedule 12, or any other mitigation works.

38.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article, NGN must serve notice of the intended entry on the
owners and occupiers of the land.

38.3

NGN must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain in
possession of any land under this article—

38.3.a

in the case of land referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Part 2 of Schedule 12, or

38.3.b

in the case of land referred to in paragraph 1(a)(ii), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for which
temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by the
end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act
or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

38.4

NGN must provide the owner of any land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article with written notice of the date of completion of the
works for which temporary possession was taken within 28 days of the
completion of those works.

38.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under paragraph (1)(a)(i), NGN must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
NGN is not required to—

38.5.a

replace a building, structure, archaeological artefact, electric line,
apparatus, equipment, plant or pylon removed under this article;

38.5.b

remove any pylons, electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under or in that land as part of the NGN works;

38.5.c

remove any foundations to a depth greater than 1.5 metres below adjoining
ground level; or

38.5.d

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph 1(d)
insofar as the element of works shown in column (4) of Part 2 of Schedule 12
is concerned.

38.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under paragraph (1)(a)(ii), unless otherwise agreed by the owners of the
land, NGN must either acquire the interest on, over, or in the land in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3)(b) or remove all temporary
works and restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the
land; but NGN is not required to—

38.6.a

replace a building, structure, archaeological artefact, electric line,
apparatus, equipment, plant or pylon removed under this article;

38.6.b

remove any pylons, electric lines or underground cables constructed or
installed on, over, under or in that land as part of the NGN works;

38.6.c

remove any foundations to a depth greater than 1.5 metres below adjoining
ground level; or

38.6.d

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph 1(d)
insofar as the element of works shown in column (4) of Part 2 of Schedule 12
is concerned.

38.7

NGN must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

38.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (7),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

38.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (7).

38.10

Where NGN takes possession of land under this article, NGN is not required to
acquire the land or any interest in it.

38.11

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

38.12

Nothing in this article prevents NGN from taking temporary possession more
than once in relation to any land specified in Part 3 of Schedule 12; or

38.13

National Grid from taking temporary possession more than once in relation to
any land specified in Schedule 12.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

39

39.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance periods relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

39.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

39.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose; and

39.1.c

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining access as
is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development.

39.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

39.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

39.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

39.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

39.4

The undertaker may remain in possession of land under this article only for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

39.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

39.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

39.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

39.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

39.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

39.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

39.11

In this article “ the maintenance periods ” in relation to any part of the
authorised development means the period of five years beginning with the date
on which that part of the authorised development is brought into operational
use, except where the authorised development is mitigation planting where “
the maintenance periods ” means the period of five years beginning with the
date on which that part of the mitigation planting is completed.

#### Statutory undertakers

40

40.1

Subject to the provisions of article  25  (compulsory acquisition of rights),
Schedule 15 (protective provisions) and paragraph (2), the undertaker may—

40.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

40.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

40.2

Paragraph (1)(b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act  applies.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

41

41.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article  40  (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

41.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article  39  (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development), any person who is—

41.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

41.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

41.3

In this paragraph—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003 ; and
“ public utility undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage
undertaker.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

42

42.1

This article applies to—

42.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

42.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it, so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any
land which is the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to
be provided for that person’s use.

42.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

42.3

Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the
rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any
such agreement so as to—

42.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

42.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

42.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

43

43.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
persons aggrieved by statutory nuisances) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraphs (g) (noise emitted
from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) and (ga) (noise
that is prejudicial to health or a nuisance and is emitted from or caused by a
vehicle, machinery or equipment in a street) of section 79(1) (statutory
nuisances and inspections therefor) of that Act no order must be made, and no
fine may be imposed, under section 82(2) (summary proceedings by persons
aggrieved by statutory nuisances) of that Act if—

43.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

43.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
; or

43.1.a.ii

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with the controls and measures relating to noise as
described in the code of construction practice or the construction management
plans or in accordance with the noise levels set out in an environmental
permit relating to the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development; or

43.1.a.iii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

43.1.a.iv

is a consequence of complying with a requirement of this Order and that it
cannot reasonably be avoided; or

43.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

43.1.b.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the use of the authorised development and that the nuisance is
attributable to the use of the authorised development which is being used in
accordance with the noise and vibration management plan prepared under
requirement 5 of Schedule 3 (requirements) to this Order; or

43.1.b.ii

is a consequence of the use of the authorised development and that it cannot
reasonably be avoided.

43.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) above, compliance with the controls and
measures relating to noise described in the code of construction practice and
the noise and vibration management plan will be sufficient, but not necessary,
to show that an alleged nuisance could not reasonably be avoided.

43.3

Where a relevant planning authority is acting in accordance with section 60(4)
(control of noise on construction sites) and section 61(4) (prior consent for
work on construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 in relation
to the construction of the authorised development then the local authority
must also have regard to the controls and measures relating to noise referred
to in the code of construction practice and the construction management plans.

43.4

Section 61(9) (prior consent for work on construction sites) of the Control of
Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of
premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

44

44.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the person responsible.

44.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

#### Traffic regulation

45

45.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, the undertaker may at
any time, for the purposes of the construction of the authorised development
or for purposes ancillary to it prohibit vehicular access and prohibit waiting
of vehicles in the manner specified in Part 1 of Schedule 14 (traffic
regulation) on those roads specified in column 1 and along the lengths and
between the points specified in column 2 in the manner specified in column 3
of that Part of that Schedule.

45.2

Without limiting the scope of the specific power conferred by paragraph (1)
but subject to the provisions of this article and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed, the undertaker may, in so far as may be
expedient or necessary for the purposes of or in connection with construction
of the authorised development, or for purposes ancillary to it, at any time
prior to when the authorised development is first brought into operational
use—

45.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

45.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, parking, waiting, loading or
unloading of vehicles on any road;

45.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

45.2.d

make provision as to the maximum speed, direction or priority of vehicular
traffic on any road; and

45.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road, either at all times or at
times, on days or during such periods as may be specified by the undertaker.

45.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers in paragraphs (1) and (2) unless
it has—

45.3.a

given not less than 28 days’ notice in writing of its intention to do so to
the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

45.3.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 7 days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention as provided for in subparagraph (a).

45.4

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (1) or (2)—

45.4.a

has effect as if duly made by—

45.4.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

45.4.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking places) of the 1984
Act, and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and
exemptions (in addition to those mentioned in Schedule 14 (traffic
regulation)) to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is
subject; and

45.4.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act
2004 .

45.5

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraphs (1) and (2) at any time prior
to the part of the authorised development to which it relates being brought
into operational use.

45.6

Before complying with the provisions of paragraph (3) the undertaker must
consult the chief officer of police and the traffic authority in whose area
the road is situated.

45.7

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

45.8

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraphs (1) and (2)
the traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

45.9

Any application for consent under paragraphs (1) and (2) must include a
statement that the provisions of paragraph (8) apply to that application.

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

46

46.1

The undertaker may fell, lop, prune, coppice, pollard, or reduce in height or
width any tree, shrub, shrubbery, hedgerow, or important hedgerow under or
within or overhanging or near any part of the authorised development, or cut
back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to
prevent the tree, shrub, shrubbery, hedgerow or important hedgerow—

46.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

46.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using, constructing, maintaining, or
operating the authorised development.

46.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
not cause any unnecessary damage to any tree, shrub, shrubbery or hedgerow, or
important hedgerow and must pay compensation to any person for any loss or
damage arising from such activity.

46.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

46.4

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as planning
permission pursuant to Part 3 of the 1990 Act for the purposes of regulation
14 (exceptions) of the Town and Country Planning (Tree Preservation) (England)
Regulations 2012  and the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of
trees) of the 1990 Act does not apply.

46.5

The undertaker may not pursuant to paragraph (1) fell or lop a tree within or
overhanging the extent of the public highway without the consent of the
relevant highway authority.

46.6

If the relevant highway authority fails to notify the undertaker of its
decision within 28 days of receiving an application for consent under
paragraph (5) the relevant highway authority is deemed to have granted
consent.

46.7

The power conferred by paragraph (1) removes any obligation upon the
undertaker to secure any consent to remove—

46.7.a

the hedgerows listed in Schedule 17 (hedgerows which may be removed); or

46.7.b

subject to consultation with the relevant planning authority, any hedgerow
within the Order limits that may be identified and that is not otherwise
described in Schedule 17 (hedgerows which may be removed)

under the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 .

46.8

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerow Regulations 1997.

46.9

Any application for consent under paragraph (5) must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

#### Protection of interests

47

Schedule 15 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of plans, etc.

48

48.1

National Grid must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of—

48.1.a

the access, rights of way and public rights of navigation plan (Document 2.7.1
– 2.7.6);

48.1.b

the arboricultural impact assessment (Document 5.3.3I);

48.1.c

the book of reference (Document 4.3);

48.1.d

the environmental statement (Documents 5.1 to 5.4.18, 5.2.19 and 5.2.22);

48.1.e

the code of construction practice (Document 5.3.3B);

48.1.f

the archaeological written scheme of investigation (Document 5.3.3C);

48.1.g

the biodiversity mitigation strategy (Document 5.3.3D);

48.1.h

the construction traffic management plan (Document 5.3.3F);

48.1.i

the public rights of way management plan (Document 5.3.3G);

48.1.j

the noise and vibration management plan (Document 5.3.3H);

48.1.k

the outline landscape mitigation strategy (Figure 3.10 – 3.12  ...   in
Document 5.4.3);

48.1.l

the outline soil management plan (Document 5.3.3E);

48.1.m

the design drawings (Document 2.15);

48.1.n

the land plan (Document 2.5.1–2.5.6);

48.1.o

the extinguishment of easements, servitudes and other private rights plan
(Document 2.14);

48.1.p

the traffic regulation order plan (Document 2.12.1–2.12.6);

48.1.q

the works plan (Document 2.6.1–2.6.6);

48.1.r

the design approach to site specific infrastructure (Document 8.18);

for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in
this Order.

48.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

49

49.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

49.1.a

by post;

49.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

49.1.c

with the written consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8)
by electronic transmission.

49.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

49.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

49.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

49.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

49.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

49.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

49.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

49.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is taken to be fulfilled only where—

49.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

49.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

49.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

49.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

49.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

49.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

49.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

49.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

49.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

49.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

49.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ”, in relation to a notice
or document, means that the information contained in the notice or document is
available to that person to no lesser extent than it would be if served, given
or supplied by means of a notice or document in printed form.

#### Procedure regarding certain approvals, etc.

50

50.1

Where an application or request is submitted to a relevant planning authority,
the highway authority, a street authority or the owner of a watercourse, sewer
or drain for any consent, agreement or approval required or contemplated by
any of the provisions of the Order such consent, agreement or approval, if
given, must be given in writing, such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld.

50.2

Schedule 4 (discharge of requirements) has effect in relation to all consents,
agreements or approvals granted, refused or withheld under Schedule 3
(requirements), and any document referred to in Schedule 3 (requirements).

50.3

The procedure set out in paragraphs (3) to (5) of Schedule 4 (discharge of
requirements) has effect in relation to any other consent, agreement or
approval required under this Order where such consent, agreement or approval
is granted subject to any condition to which the undertaker objects, or is
refused or is withheld.

#### Amendment of local legislation

51

51.1

The local enactments specified in Part 1 of Schedule 16 (amendment of local
legislation), and any byelaws or other provisions made under any of those
enactments, and the local byelaws specified in Part 2 of that Schedule are
hereby excluded and do not apply insofar as inconsistent with a provision of,
or a power conferred by, this Order.

51.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1) a provision is inconsistent with the exercise
of a power conferred by this Order if and insofar as (in particular)—

51.2.a

it would make it an offence to take action, or not to take action, in
pursuance of a power conferred by this Order;

51.2.b

action taken in pursuance of a power conferred by this Order would cause the
provision to apply so as to enable a person to require the taking of remedial
or other action or so as to enable remedial or other action to be taken;

action taken in pursuance of a power or duty under the provisions would or
might interfere with the exercise of any work authorised by this Order.

51.3

Where any person notifies the undertaker in writing that anything done or
proposed to be done by the undertaker or by virtue of this Order would amount
to a contravention of a statutory provision of local application, the
undertaker must as soon as reasonably practicable, and at any rate within 14
days of receipt of the notice, respond in writing setting out—

51.3.a

whether the undertaker agrees that the action taken or proposed does or would
contravene the provision of local application;

51.3.b

if the undertaker does agree, the grounds (if any) on which the undertaker
believes that the provision is excluded by this article; and

51.3.c

the extent of that exclusion.

#### Arbitration

52

Subject to article  50  (procedure regarding certain approvals, etc.) and
except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order or unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the Secretary
of State.

#### Temporary closure of, and works in, the river Ouse

53

53.1

The undertaker may, subject to Part 3 of Schedule 15 (protective provisions),
in connection with the construction and maintenance of the authorised
development, temporarily interfere with the relevant part of the river for the
purposes of the removal, installation and maintenance of the overhead electric
lines comprised in Work No. 6 (XC and XCP overhead electric lines, and XC
overhead electric line) of Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any
associated development in connection with it.

53.2

Without limitation on the powers conferred by paragraph (1) but subject to
paragraphs (3) and (4) the undertaker may, in connection with the construction
and maintenance of the authorised development on grounds of health and safety
only, temporarily close to navigation the relevant part of the river.

53.3

The power conferred by paragraphs (1) and (2) must be exercised in such a way
which secures—

53.3.a

that no more of the relevant part of the river is closed to navigation at any
time than is necessary in the circumstances; and

53.3.b

that, if complete closure to navigation of the relevant part of the river
becomes necessary, all reasonable steps are taken to secure that the period of
closure is kept to a minimum and that the minimum obstruction, delay or
interference is caused to vessels or craft which may be using or intending to
use the part so closed.

53.4

During the period of any closure referred to in paragraph (2) all rights of
navigation and other rights relating to and any obligations of the Trust to
manage the relevant part of the river so closed are to be suspended and
unenforceable against the Trust.

53.5

Any person who as a result of the exercise of powers conferred by this
article, suffers loss by reason of the interference with any private rights of
navigation is entitled to be paid compensation for such loss by the
undertaker, to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961
Act.

53.6

In this article, “ the relevant part of the river ” means so much of the River
Ouse as is within the Order limits and the “ Trust ” means the Canal & River
Trust.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and
Net Zero       Fiona Mettam   Director, Energy Development   Department for
Energy Security and Net Zero     14th March 2024

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

  A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14
and 16 of the 2008 Act and associated development within the meaning of
section 115(2) of the 2008 Act comprising—

##### OSBALDWICK SUBSTATION

###### Work No. 1 – Osbaldwick Substation and YR overhead electric line

  In the city of York

  Works at the existing Osbaldwick Substation to reconfigure the existing
layout and YR overhead electric line shown on section A, sheet 1 of the works
plan, comprising—     a     the installation of conductors, insulators and
fittings from YR001A to YR001C;         b     the dismantling and removal of
existing conductors, insulators and fittings on and between YR001A and
YR001-T;         c     the installation of gantry YR001C, support structures,
switchgear and equipment, underground cables and cable terminations; and
d     the dismantling and removal of gantry YR001-T, associated support
structures, switchgear and equipment.

##### OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES AND OVERTON SUBSTATION (NORTH WEST OF YORK)

###### Work No. 2 – YR/2TW overhead electric line and YN overhead electric line

  In North Yorkshire and the city of York

  Works to reconfigure the YR overhead electric line and construction and
installation of the YN overhead electric line as shown on section B, sheet 1
of the works plan, comprising—     a     the reconductoring of the YR/2TW
overhead electric line from YR036 to 2TW169, replacement of conductors,
fittings, insulators, and fibre optic earthwires, including modifications to
existing pylons;         b     the construction and installation of a
temporary diversion of the YR overhead electric line from YR038 to 2TW169,
including conductors, fibre optic earthwires, insulators, fittings and two
temporary structures;         c     the construction and installation of an
overhead electric line from YR040 to YN004 including five pylons, conductors,
fibre optic earthwires, insulators, fittings and connections into the new
Shipton North and Shipton South cable sealing end compounds referred to at
paragraph (f) .

  In North Yorkshire     d     the installation of an underground cable to
facilitate a connection between Shipton North and Shipton South cable sealing
end compounds referred to at paragraph (f);         e     the dismantling and
removal of existing pylon YR040T, including foundations;         f     the
construction and installation of two cable sealing end compounds, Shipton
North and Shipton South, containing sealing end equipment, including anchor
blocks at Shipton North and a gantry at Shipton South, switchgear, earthing
and protection control systems, and connections to the overhead electric line;
g     the installation of one temporary construction compound; and

  In the city of York     h     the installation of one temporary construction
compound.

###### Work No. U1 – Utility Undergrounding

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section B, sheet 1 of the works plan.

###### Work No. 3 – YN overhead electric line

  In North Yorkshire and the city of York

  Works to construct and install the YN overhead electric line shown on
section B, sheets 1 and 2 of the works plan, comprising—     a     the
construction and installation of an overhead electric line from YN004 to
YN008, YN008 to YN009, and YN008 to YN010, including four pylons, conductors,
fibre optic earthwires, insulators, fittings and connections into the Overton
Substation referred to within Work No. 4; and         b     the installation
of two temporary construction compounds.

###### Work No. U2

  In the city of York

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section B, sheets 1 and 2 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U3

  In the city of York

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section B, sheet 2 of the works plan.

###### Work No. 4 – Overton Substation

  In North Yorkshire

  Works to construct and install a new substation at Overton, to facilitate
connections to the YN, SP and XC overhead electric lines shown, on section B,
sheet 2 of the works plan, comprising the construction and installation of
Overton. Substation including six gantries for termination of the new overhead
electric lines, four supergrid transformers, noise enclosures, switchgear,
plant and equipment, operational and ancillary buildings and permanent
landscaping works, the construction of gates and fencing, hardstanding and
drainage for Overton Substation.

###### Work No. 5 – SP and XCP overhead electric lines

  In North Yorkshire and the city of York

  Works to construct and install the SP overhead electric line and dismantle
the XCP overhead electric line shown on section B, sheets 2 and 3 of the works
plan, comprising—     a     the construction and installation of an overhead
electric line from SP001 to SP003, SP002 to SP003, and SP003 to SP007,
including four pylons, conductors, fibre optic earthwires, insulators,
fittings, modifications to existing pylons and connections into Overton
Substation referred to at Work No. 4 above; and

  In North Yorkshire     b     the dismantling and removal of existing pylon
XCP013, including removal of conductors, insulators, fittings, fibre optic
earthwires, and foundations.

###### Work No. 6 – XC and XCP overhead electric lines, and XC overhead electric line

  In the city of York and in North Yorkshire

  Works to reconfigure the XC overhead electric line, through reconductoring
and installation of new sections of overhead electric lines, and dismantling
of the XCP overhead electric line and sections of the XC overhead electric
line shown on section B, sheets 2 to 5 of the works plan, comprising—

  In North Yorkshire     a     the construction and installation of a
temporary overhead electric line span from XC416 to SP003, including
insulators and fittings;

  In the city of York and in North Yorkshire     b     the construction and
installation of an electric overhead line from XC414 to XC416, XC415 to XC416,
and XC416 to XC429 including 14 pylons, conductors, fibre optic earthwires,
insulators, fittings and connections into Overton Substation referred to at
Work No. 4 above;         c     the dismantling and removal of existing pylons
XCP012 to XC429T including removal of 14 pylons, conductors, insulators,
fittings, fibre optic earthwires and foundations;         d     the
construction and installation of a temporary diversion of the existing XCP
overhead electric line from XC421 to XCP003, including conductors, insulators,
fittings and four temporary structures;

  In North Yorkshire     e     the reconductoring of the XC overhead electric
line from XC429 to XC430, including modifications to existing pylons and
foundations, and the replacement of conductors, fittings, insulators and fibre
optic earthwires; and         f     the construction and installation of a
temporary diversion of the XC overhead electric line from XC428T to XC430,
including conductors, insulators, fittings and one temporary structure.

###### Work No. U4

  In the city of York

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section B, sheet 3 and 4 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U5

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section B, sheet 5 of the works plan.

##### OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES (MOOR MONKTON TO TADCASTER)

###### Work No. 7 – XC overhead electric line

  In North Yorkshire

  Works to upgrade, modify and reconductor the existing XC overhead electric
line shown on section C, sheet 1 to section D, sheet 1 of the works plan
comprising the reconductoring of the XC overhead electric line from XC430 to
XC480, including modifications to existing pylons and foundations, replacement
of conductors, fibre optic earthwires, fittings, and insulators.

###### Work No. U6

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section C, sheet 9 of the works plan.

##### OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES (TADCASTER)

###### Work No. 8 – XC and XD overhead electric lines

  In the city of Leeds and in North Yorkshire

  Works to upgrade, modify and reconductor the XC overhead electric line, and
modify the XD overhead electric line shown on section D, sheets 1 and 2 of the
works plan, comprising—

  In North Yorkshire     a     the reconductoring of the XC overhead electric
line from XC480 to XC482, including modifications to existing pylons and
foundations, replacement of conductors, fibre optic earthwires, fittings, and
insulators;         b     the construction and installation of a temporary
diversion of the existing XD overhead electric line from XC481 to XD003,
including conductors, insulators, fibre optic earthwires, fittings and two
temporary structures;         c     the construction and installation of an
overhead electric line from XC481 to the Tadcaster Tee East cable sealing end
compound referred to at paragraph (f) and from XD001 into the Tadcaster Tee
West cable sealing end compound referred to at paragraph (f), including
conductors, fibre optic earthwires, insulators and fittings;         d     the
construction and installation of underground cables to connect the Tadcaster
Tee East cable sealing end compound referred to at paragraph (f) with the
Tadcaster Tee West cable sealing end compound referred to at paragraph (f);
e     the dismantling and removal of existing pylon XD001T and its associated
foundations, and the removal of a single circuit of redundant conductors
between XD001 and XC481;         f     the construction and installation of
two cable sealing end compounds, Tadcaster Tee East and Tadcaster Tee West,
containing sealing end equipment, including anchor blocks in Tadcaster Tee
East and a gantry in Tadcaster Tee West, switchgear, earthing and protection
control systems, connections to the overhead electric line, and permanent
landscaping works;         g     the installation of one temporary
construction compound; and

  In the city of Leeds and in North Yorkshire     h     modifications to
conductors, insulators and fittings between XC481 and XD007.

###### Work No. U7

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section D, sheets 1 and 2 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U8

  In North Yorkshire

  The diversion of an underground gas pipeline and removal of redundant
section of gas pipeline shown on section D, sheet 1 of the works plan.

##### OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES (TADCASTER TO MONK FRYSTON)

###### Work No. 9 – XC overhead electric line

  In North Yorkshire

  Works to upgrade, modify and reconductor the XC overhead electric line shown
on section D, sheet 1 to section E, sheet 7 of the works plan, comprising the
reconductoring of the XC overhead electric line from XC482 to XC521, including
modifications to existing pylons and foundations, replacement of conductors,
fibre optic earthwire, fittings and insulators.

###### Work No. U9

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section E, sheet 2 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U10

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section E, sheet 3 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U11

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section E, sheet 3 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U12

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section E, sheet 5 of the works plan.

###### Work No. U13

  In North Yorkshire

  The removal of a section of the existing distribution overhead electric line
and its replacement with the installation of an underground cable shown on
section E, sheet 6 of the works plan.

##### OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES AND MONK FRYSTON SUBSTATION

###### Work No. 10 – XC overhead electric line

  In North Yorkshire

  Works to reconfigure the XC overhead electric line through construction and
installation of new sections and dismantling of existing sections shown on
section E, sheet 7 and section F, sheet 1 of the works plan, comprising—     a
the construction and installation of an overhead electric line from XC521 to
XC526 and from XC526 to XC527, and from XC526 to XC528, including the
construction and installation of five pylons, conductors, fibre optic
earthwires, insulators, fittings, and connections into the Monk Fryston
Substation referred to at Work No. 11;         b     the dismantling and
removal of an overhead electric line from XC521 to XC525T, including removal
of four pylons, conductors, insulators, fittings, fibre optic earthwires and
foundations;         c     the construction and installation of a temporary
diversion of the existing XC overhead electric line from XC522T to XC525T,
including conductors, insulators, fittings and two temporary structures; and
d     the installation of one temporary construction compound.

###### Work No. 11 – Monk Fryston Substation

  In North Yorkshire

  Works to construct and install a new substation at Monk Fryston, including
modifications to the existing Monk Fryston Substation, XC overhead electric
line and 4YS overhead electric line connections shown on Section F, sheet 1 of
the works plan, comprising—     a     the dismantling and removal of four
gantries MF L, MF R, MF L-T and MF R-T, comprising the removal of conductors,
insulators, fittings, and fibre optic earthwires, including between 4YS029 and
4ZZ001A;         b     the construction and installation of an overhead
electric line from 4YS029 to 4YS030 and from 4YS029 to 4YS031, including two
gantries, the installation of conductors, fibre optic earthwires, insulators,
fittings, and connections into the new Monk Fryston Substation referred to at
paragraph (d);         c     the installation of one temporary construction
compound;         d     the construction and installation of the new Monk
Fryston Substation including four gantries for termination of new overhead
electric line entries, four supergrid transformers, noise enclosures,
switchgear, plant and equipment, operational and ancillary buildings and
permanent landscaping works; and         e     modifications to the existing
Monk Fryston Substation including structures, plant and equipment, perimeter
fencing, drainage systems, lighting and site furniture.

  Such associated development not listed above, within the Order limits, as
may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction or maintenance of the above Work Nos. or any of them, which may
include—     a     ramps, means of access, footpaths, cycleways, bridleways
and trackways;         b     embankments, bridges, aprons, abutments,
foundations, retaining walls, drainage, wing walls, headwalls, culverts and
fencing including stock-proof fencing;         c     works to alter the course
of, or otherwise interfere with a watercourse, drainage works, attenuation
ponds, and culverts;         d     landscaping and other works to mitigate any
adverse effects of construction, maintenance, operation or use, together with
means of access;         e     tree, hedgerow and vegetation planting and
maintenance works;         f     works for the benefit or protection of the
environment;         g     works for the benefit or protection of land,
structures, apparatus or equipment affected by the authorised development
(including earthing and works for monitoring);         h     works required
for the strengthening, improvement, maintenance, or reconstruction of any
streets;         i     works to streets and any alteration, removal or
installation of street furniture, traffic signage and signals, and road
lining, including where required to facilitate the construction of temporary
accesses;         j     site preparation works, site clearance (including
scaffolding, fencing, vegetation removal, demolition of existing buildings or
structures and the creation of alternative footpaths, cycleways, bridleways
and trackways);         k     earthworks (including soil stripping and
storage, site levelling, ground improvement, berms and bunding);         l
works within temporary construction compounds, comprising temporary laydown,
assembly and storage areas, temporary offices, security cabins, temporary
vehicle parking, construction fencing, gates and hoarding, perimeter
enclosure, security fencing, construction related buildings, welfare
facilities, construction and security lighting and haulage roads, provision of
services, generators, lighting, waste management facilities, drainage works,
attenuation ponds, access roads, wheel cleaning facilities, biosecurity
measures, fencing and hoarding;         m     works within cable sealing end
compounds and substations, comprising the installation of switchgear, above
and below ground services, troughs and cables, perimeter fencing, gates and
hoarding, drainage systems, attenuation ponds, pollution control, generators,
earthing and protection control systems, supervisory control and data
acquisition communications, lighting, waste management facilities, drainage
works, attenuation ponds, access roads, wheel cleaning facilities, biosecurity
measures, parking areas;         n     works to allow for the provision of
services, including power supplies, electric vehicle charging points and
communication equipment;         o     installation of wires, cables, ducts,
pipes and conductors including establishment of winching points;         p
the changing of name plates;         q     such other works, including
scaffolding and crossing protection, working areas, and works of demolition
(which includes but is not limited to demolition of residential properties),
as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction of the authorised development and which do not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects from those
assessed in the environmental statement;         r     the construction and
installation of permanent vehicle access roads, gates and fencing,
hardstanding, and drainage;         s     works to place, alter, divert,
relocate, protect, remove or maintain the position of apparatus (including
statutory undertakers’ apparatus), services, plant and other equipment in,
under or above a street, or in other land, including mains, sewers, drains,
pipes, lights, conductors, cables, fencing and other boundary treatments; and
t     such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or
in connection with the construction, installation, operation or maintenance of
the authorised development and which do not give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement.

  PLANS, DRAWINGS AND ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT

Article 3

##### ACCESS, RIGHTS OF WAY AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF NAVIGATION PLAN

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   Access, Rights of Way and Public
Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_A/AC/KP/01 A Access, Rights of Way and
Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_A/AC/PS/01 B Access, Rights of Way and
Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_B/AC/KP/01 B Access, Rights of Way
and Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_B/AC/KPD/01 C Access, Rights of
Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_B/AC/PS/01 C Access, Rights of
Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_B/AC/PS/02 C Access, Rights of
Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_B/AC/PS/03 C Access, Rights of
Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_B/AC/PS/04 C Access, Rights of
Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_B/AC/PS/05 C Access, Rights of
Way and Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_C/AC/KP/01 A Access, Rights
of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_C/AC/KPD/01 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/01 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/02 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/03 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/04 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/05 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/06 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/07 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/08 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_C/AC/PS/09 B Access,
Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_D/AC/KP/01 A
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_D/AC/PS/01 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_D/AC/PS/02 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_E/AC/KP/01
A Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/01 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/02 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/03 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/04 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/05 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/06 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_E/AC/PS/07 B
Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Key Plan DCO_F/AC/KP/01
A Access, Rights of Way and Public Rights of Navigation Plan DCO_F/AC/PS/01 B

##### DESIGN DRAWINGS

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   List Of Design Drawings
DCO_DE/KP/01_01 C List Of Design Drawings DCO_DE/KP/01_02 C Design Drawing:
Explanatory Overhead Line Profile DCO_DE/PS/01_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles 2TW/YR DCO_DE/PS/03_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles YN DCO_DE/PS/04_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles YN DCO_DE/PS/04_02 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles SP DCO_DE/PS/05_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles SP DCO_DE/PS/05_02 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_02 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_03 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_04 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_05 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_06 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_07 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_08 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_09 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_10 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_11 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_12 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_13 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XC DCO_DE/PS/06_14 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XD DCO_DE/PS/07_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles XD DCO_DE/PS/07_02 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles 4YS DCO_DE/PS/08_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles Temporary Alignment XCP DCO_DE/PS/09_01 A Design
Drawing: Indicative Overhead Line Profiles Temporary Alignment XC
DCO_DE/PS/10_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative Overhead Line Profiles Temporary
Alignment XC DCO_DE/PS/10_02 A Design Drawing: Indicative Overhead Line
Profiles Temporary Alignment XD DCO_DE/PS/11_01 A Design Drawing: Indicative
Overhead Line Profiles Temporary Alignment YR DCO_DE/PS/12_01 A Design
Drawing: Indicative Maximum And Minimum Lattice Pylon Heights DCO_DE/PS/13_01
A Design Drawing: Substation Parameter Plan - Overton DCO_DE/PS/14_01 B Design
Drawing: Indicative Substation Layout - Overton DCO_DE/PS/14_02 B Design
Drawing: Indicative Substation Elevation - Overton DCO_DE/PS/14_03 B Design
Drawing: Substation Parameter Plan - Monk Fryston DCO_DE/PS/15_01 B Design
Drawing: Indicative Substation Layout - Monk Fryston DCO_DE/PS/15_02 B Design
Drawing: Indicative Substation Elevation - Monk Fryston DCO_DE/PS/15_03 B
Design Drawing: Substation Parameter Plan - Osbaldwick DCO_DE/PS/16_01 B
Design Drawing: Indicative Substation Layout - Osbaldwick DCO_DE/PS/16_02 B
Design Drawing: Indicative Substation Elevation - Osbaldwick DCO_DE/PS/16_03 B
Design Drawing: Parameter Plan For Shipton North 400kv Cable Sealing End
Compound DCO_DE/PS/17_01 C Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End
Compound Layout - Shipton North 400kv Cable Sealing End Compound
DCO_DE/PS/17_02 C Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End Compound
Elevation - Shipton North 400kv Cable Sealing End Compound DCO_DE/PS/17_03 C
Design Drawing: Parameter Plan For Shipton South 400kv Cable Sealing End
Compound DCO_DE/PS/18_01 C Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End
Compound Layout - Shipton South 400kv Cable Sealing End Compound
DCO_DE/PS/18_02 C Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End Compound
Elevation - Shipton South 400kv Cable Sealing End Compound DCO_DE/PS/18_03 C
Design Drawing: Parameter Plan For Tadcaster West 275kv Cable Sealing End
Compound DCO_DE/PS/19_01 B Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End
Compound Layout - Tadcaster West 275kv Cable Sealing End Compound
DCO_DE/PS/19_02 B Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End Compound
Elevation - Tadcaster West 275kv Cable Sealing End Compound DCO_DE/PS/19_03 B
Design Drawing: Parameter Plan For Tadcaster East 275kv Cable Sealing End
Compound DCO_DE/PS/20_01 B Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End
Compound Layout - Tadcaster East 275kv Cable Sealing End Compound
DCO_DE/PS/20_02 B Design Drawing: Indicative Cable Sealing End Compound
Elevation - Tadcaster East 275kv Cable Sealing End Compound DCO_DE/PS/20_03 B
Design Drawing: Indicative Earthworks Layout - Overton DCO_DE/PS/21_01 A
Design Drawing: Indicative Earthworks Long Sections - Overton DCO_DE/PS/21_02
A Design Drawings: Indicative Earthworks Layout - Monk Fryston DCO_DE/PS/22_01
A Design Drawings: Indicative Earthworks Long Sections - Monk Fryston
DCO_DE/PS/22_02 A

##### EXTINGUISHMENT OF EASEMENTS, SERVITUDES AND OTHER PRIVATE RIGHTS PLANS

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   Master key to section
identification plan for extinguishment of easements, servitudes and other
private rights plan DCO_MKP/EX/01 B Extinguishment of easements, servitudes
and other private rights key plan DCO_D/EX/KP/01 A Extinguishment of
easements, servitudes and other private rights plan DCO_D/EX/PS/01 A
Extinguishment of easements, servitudes and other private rights plan
DCO_D/EX/PS/02 A

##### LAND PLAN

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   Land Key Plan DCO_A/LP/KP/01 A
Land Plan DCO_A/LP/PS/01 B Land Key Plan DCO_B/LP/KP/01 B Land Plan
DCO_B/LP/PS/01 D Land Plan DCO_B/LP/PS/02 D Land Plan DCO_B/LP/PS/03 D Land
Plan DCO_B/LP/PS/04 D Land Plan DCO_B/LP/PS/05 D Land Key Plan DCO_C/LP/KP/01
A Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/01 C Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/02 C Land Plan
DCO_C/LP/PS/03 C Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/04 C Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/05 C Land
Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/06 C Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/07 C Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/08 C
Land Plan DCO_C/LP/PS/09 C Land Key Plan DCO_D/LP/KP/01 A Land Plan
DCO_D/LP/PS/01 B Land Plan DCO_D/LP/PS/02 B Land Key Plan DCO_E/LP/KP/01 A
Land Plan DCO_E/LP/PS/01 B Land Plan DCO_E/LP/PS/02 B Land Plan DCO_E/LP/PS/03
B Land Plan DCO_E/LP/PS/04 B Land Plan DCO_E/LP/PS/05 B Land Plan
DCO_E/LP/PS/06 B Land Plan DCO_E/LP/PS/07 B Land Key Plan DCO_F/LP/KP/01 A
Land Plan DCO_F/LP/PS/01 B

##### OUTLINE LANDSCAPE MITIGATION STRATEGY

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   5.4.3 ES Chapter 3: Description
of the Project Figure 3.10 Outline Landscape Mitigation Strategy (Overton)
DCO/OLMP/3.10 C 5.4.3 ES Chapter 3: Description of the Project Figure 3.11
Outline Landscape Mitigation Strategy (Tadcaster) DCO/OLMP/3.11 C 5.4.3 ES
Chapter 3: Description of the Project Figure 3.12 Outline Landscape Mitigation
Strategy (Monk Fryston) DCO/OLMP/3.12 C

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDER PLAN

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   Traffic Regulations Order Key
Plan DCO_A/TRO/KP/01 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_A/TRO/PS/01 A
Traffic Regulations Order Key Plan DCO_B/TRO/KP/01 B Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_B/TRO/PS/01 B Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_B/TRO/PS/02 B
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_B/TRO/PS/03 B Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_B/TRO/PS/04 B Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_B/TRO/PS/05 B
Traffic Regulations Order Key Plan DCO_C/TRO/KP/01 A Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/01 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/02 A
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/03 A Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/04 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/05 A
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/06 A Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/07 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/08 A
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_C/TRO/PS/09 A Traffic Regulations Order Key
Plan DCO_D/TRO/KP/01 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_D/TRO/PS/01 A
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_D/TRO/PS/02 A Traffic Regulations Order Key
Plan DCO_E/TRO/KP/01 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/01 A
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/02 A Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/03 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/04 A
Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/05 A Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/06 A Traffic Regulations Order Plan DCO_E/TRO/PS/07 A
Traffic Regulations Order Key Plan DCO_F/TRO/KP/01 A Traffic Regulations Order
Plan DCO_F/TRO/PS/01 A

##### WORKS PLAN

      Drawing Title Drawing Number Revision   Works Key Plan DCO_A/WO/KP/01 A
Works Plan DCO_A/WO/PS/01 B Works Key Plan DCO_B/WO/KP/01 B Works Plan
DCO_B/WO/PS/01 C Works Plan DCO_B/WO/PS/02 C Works Plan DCO_B/WO/PS/03 C Works
Plan DCO_B/WO/PS/04 C Works Plan DCO_B/WO/PS/05 C Works Key Plan
DCO_C/WO/KP/01 A Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/01 C Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/02 C Works
Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/03 C Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/04 C Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/05 C
Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/06 C Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/07 C Works Plan
DCO_C/WO/PS/08 C Works Plan DCO_C/WO/PS/09 C Works Key Plan DCO_D/WO/KP/01 A
Works Plan DCO_D/WO/PS/01 C Works Plan DCO_D/WO/PS/02 C Works Key Plan
DCO_E/WO/KP/01 A Works Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/01 C Works Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/02 C Works
Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/03 C Works Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/04 C Works Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/05 C
Works Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/06 C Works Plan DCO_E/WO/PS/07 C Works Key Plan
DCO_F/WO/KP/01 A Works Plan DCO_F/WO/PS/01 B

##### ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT DOCUMENTS

      Document title Document number Version   ES Non Technical Summary 5.1 A
ES Chapter 1 Introduction 5.2.1 A ES Chapter 2 Project Need and Alternatives
5.2.2 A ES Chapter 3 Description of the Project 5.2.3 A ES Chapter 4 Approach
to preparing the ES 5.2.4 A ES Chapter 5 Legislative and Policy Overview 5.2.5
A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual 5.2.6 A ES Chapter 7 Historic Environment
5.2.7 A ES Chapter 8 Biodiversity 5.2.8 A ES Chapter 9 Hydrology 5.2.9 A ES
Chapter 10 Geology and Hydrogeology 5.2.10 A ES Chapter 11 Agriculture and
Soils 5.2.11 A ES Chapter 12 Traffic and Transport 5.2.12 A ES Chapter 13 Air
Quality 5.2.13 A ES Chapter 14 Noise and Vibration 5.2.14 A ES Chapter 15
Health and Wellbeing 5.2.15 A ES Chapter 16 Socio economics 5.2.16 A ES
Chapter 17 Climate Change 5.2.17 A ES Chapter 18 Cumulative Effects 5.2.18 A
Environmental Statement Errata Document 5.2.19 E Environmental Statement
Addendum 5.2.22 B Appendix 1A Details of Experts and their Experience.pdf
5.3.1A A Appendix 2A Our Approach to Consenting (National Grid) 5.3.2A A
Appendix 2B Our Approach to Options Appraisal (National Grid) 5.3.2B A
Appendix 3A Embedded Measures Schedule 5.3.3A C Appendix 3B Code of
Construction Practice 5.3.3B E Appendix 3C Archaeological Written Scheme of
Investigation 5.3.3C A Appendix 3D Biodiversity Mitigation Strategy 5.3.3D B
Appendix 3E Outline Soil Management Plan 5.3.3E B Appendix 3F Construction
Traffic Management Plan 5.3.3F D Appendix 3G Public Rights of Way Management
Plan 5.3.3G B Appendix 3H Noise and Vibration Management Plan 5.3.3H B
Appendix 3I Arboricultural Impact Assessment  (Part 1 of 3)  5.3.3I (Part 1 of
3) D Appendix 3I Arboricultural Impact Assessment (Part 2 of 3) 5.3.3I (Part 2
of 3) D Appendix 3I Arboricultural Impact Assessment (Part 3 of 3) 5.3.3I
(Part 3 of 3) D Appendix 4A Scoping Opinion 5.3.4A A Appendix 4B Transboundary
Screening Matrix 5.3.4B A Appendix 5A (No Appendices) 5.3.5A A Appendix 6A EIA
Scoping Opinion Responses on Landscape and Visual Assessment 5.3.6A A Appendix
6B Technical Engagement on Landscape and Visual Assessment 5.3.6B A Appendix
6C Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment Methodology 5.3.6C A Appendix 6D
Landscape Character Baseline 5.3.6D A Appendix 6E Landscape Character
Sensitivity Assessment 5.3.6E A Appendix 6F Landscape Character Receptor
Assessment 5.3.6F A Appendix 6G Visual Receptor Assessment 5.3.6G A Appendix
6H Viewpoint Assessment 5.3.6H A Appendix 7A Historic Environment Desk Based
Assessment 5.3.7A A Appendix 7B Overton Geophysical Survey Results (Plan Only)
5.3.7B A Appendix 7C Monk Fryston Geophysical Survey Results (Plan Only)
5.3.7C A Appendix 7D Tadcaster Geophysical Survey (Report) 5.3.7D A Appendix
7E Trial Trenching at Overton Substation and Monk Fryston Substation 5.3.7E A
Appendix 7F Technical Note for Beningbrough Hall 5.3.7F A Appendix 7G
Technical Note for Scheduled Monument at Lead 5.3.7G A Appendix 7H Watching
Brief on SI works at Marston Moor 5.3.7H A Appendix 7I Shipton Geophysical
Survey Report 5.3.7I B Appendix 7J Tadcaster Geophysical Survey Results (Plan
Only) 5.3.7J A Appendix 8A Scoping of Assessment Summary 5.3.8A A Appendix 8B
Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey Report 5.3.8B D Appendix 8C CONFIDENTIAL
Badger Survey Report 5.3.8C A Appendix 8D Otter and Water Vole Survey Report
5.3.8D A Appendix 8E 2021 Wintering Birds Survey Report 5.3.8E A Appendix 8F
2021-2022 Wintering Birds Survey Report 5.3.8F A Appendix 8G CONFIDENTIAL
Schedule 1 Breeding Bird Survey Report 5.3.8G A Appendix 8H Bat Survey Report
5.3.8H B Appendix 8I GCN District Level Licensing Impact Assessment and
Conservation Payment Certificate 5.3.8I A Appendix 8J Confidential Schedule 1
Bird Survey Information 5.3.8J A Appendix 9A Conservation Sites Screening
5.3.9A A Appendix 9B WFD Waterbody Status and Objectives 5.3.9B A Appendix 9C
Infrastructure Located in WFD Waterbody 5.3.9C A Appendix 9D Flood Risk
Assessment 5.3.9D B Appendix 10A Walkover Survey Records 5.3.10A A Appendix
10B Assessment of Physical Effects on Ground Water (Focus Areas) 5.3.10B A
Appendix 10C Extracts from Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Reports 5.3.10C A
Appendix 10D Hydrogeology Water Framework Directive (WFD) Assessment 5.3.10D A
Appendix 10E Factual Report on Ground Investigation (Socotec 2022) 5.3.10E A
Appendix 11A Agricultural Land Classification for Shipton North and South CSEC
Area 5.3.11A A Appendix 11B Agricultural Land Classification for Overton
Substation 5.3.11B A Appendix 11C Agricultural Land Classification for
Tadcaster CSECs 5.3.11C A Appendix 11D Agricultural Land Classification for
Monk Fryston Substation 5.3.11D A Appendix 12A Traffic Modelling Tables
5.3.12A A Appendix 13A IAQM Construction Dust Assessment Methodology Tables
5.3.13A A Appendix 14A Baseline Noise Report 5.3.14A A Appendix 14B
Construction Plant and Activity Assumptions 5.3.14B A Appendix 14C
Construction Modelling Results 5.3.14C A Appendix 14D Acoustic Screening
Strategy 5.3.14D A Appendix 14E Overhead Line Noise Assessment 5.3.14E A
Appendix 14F National Grid Policy Statement PS(T)134 (2021) 5.3.14F A Appendix
14G National Grid Technical Report TR(E)564 (2021) 5.3.14G A Appendix 14H
National Grid Technical Guidance Note TGN(E)322 (2021) 5.3.14H A Appendix 15A
(No Appendices) 5.3.15A A Appendix 16A (No Appendices) 5.3.16A A Appendix 17A
(No Appendices) 5.3.17A A Appendix 18A Cumulative Effects Assessment Long List
of Other Developments 5.3.18A C ES Chapter 1 Introduction Figures 5.4.1 A ES
Chapter 2 Project Need and Alternatives Figures 5.4.2 A ES Chapter 3
Description of the Project Figures 5.4.3 E ES Chapter 4 Approach to preparing
the ES Figures (No Figures) 5.4.4 A ES Chapter 5 Legislative and Policy
Overview Figures (No Figures) 5.4.5 A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual
Figures (Part 1 of 15) 5.4.6  (Part 1 of 15)  B ES Chapter 6 Landscape and
Visual Figures (Part 2 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 2 of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape
and Visual Figures (Part 3 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 3 of 15) A ES Chapter 6
Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 4 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 4 of 15) A ES Chapter
6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 5 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 5 of 15) A ES
Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 6 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 6 of 15) A
ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 7 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 7 of 15)
A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 8 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 8 of
15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 9 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 9
of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 10 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part
10 of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 11 of 15) 5.4.6
(Part 11 of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 12 of 15)
5.4.6 (Part 12 of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 13 of
15) 5.4.6 (Part 13 of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part 14
of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 14 of 15) A ES Chapter 6 Landscape and Visual Figures (Part
15 of 15) 5.4.6 (Part 15 of 15) A ES Chapter 7 Historic Environment Figures
5.4.7 A ES Chapter 8 Biodiversity Figures  (Part 1 of 2)  5.4.8  (Part 1 of 2)
C ES Chapter 8 Biodiversity Figures (Part 2 of 2) 5.4.8 (Part 2 of 2) C ES
Chapter 9 Hydrology Figures  (Part 1 of 2)  5.4.9  (Part 1 of 2)  B ES Chapter
9 Hydrology Figures (Part 2 of 2) 5.4.9 (Part 2 of 2) B ES Chapter 10 Geology
and Hydrogeology Figures 5.4.10 A ES Chapter 11 Agriculture and Soils Figures
5.4.11 A ES Chapter 12 Traffic and Transport Figures 5.4.12 B ES Chapter 13
Air Quality Figures 5.4.13 A ES Chapter 14 Noise and Vibration Figures 5.4.14
A ES Chapter 15 Health and Wellbeing Figures 5.4.15 A ES Chapter 16 Socio
economics Figures 5.4.16 A ES Chapter 17 Climate Change Figures (No Figures)
5.4.17 A ES Chapter 18 Cumulative Effects Figures 5.4.18 B

REQUIREMENTS

Article 2

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this Schedule unless the context requires otherwise—

“ commence ” means the carrying out of a material operation, as defined in
section 155 (when development begins) of the 2008 Act, comprised in or carried
out for the purposes of the authorised development, but does not include any
pre-commencement works; “ the core working hours ” means the core hours within
which construction works may be undertaken as described in paragraphs (1) and
(2) of requirement 7 (construction hours). “ mean high water level ” means the
average height of the high water level over a period of time; “ pre-
commencement works ” means archaeological investigations and mitigation works;
environmental surveys and monitoring; environmental mitigation works;
investigations for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground conditions
and levels; remedial work in respect of any contamination or other adverse
ground conditions; erection of any temporary means of enclosure; temporary
hard standing; receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment;
diversion and laying of underground apparatus and utilities; protection works
comprising utilities protection works or fencing and protection slabs; site
clearance; temporary construction compound set-up; and the temporary display
of site notices or advertisements; “ relevant drainage authority ” means the
drainage authority or the Lead Local Flood Authority for the area to which the
relevant works relate; “ stage ” means a defined stage of the authorised
development, as described in a scheme submitted to the relevant planning
authority pursuant to requirement 4 (stages of authorised development); “
start up and close down activities ” means general works that will not create
an audible disturbance to local residents, including but not restricted to—
arrival and departure of workforce and staff at site and movement to and from
places of work; general refuelling of plant; site inspections and safety
checks; site meetings (daily briefings and quiet inspections/walkovers); site
clean-up (site housekeeping that does not require the use of plant); general
site maintenance; and low key maintenance and safety checking of plant and
machinery; and “ Travellers’ Encampment ” means plots E7-34 and E7-40 as shown
on the land plan to the extent and for the duration that these plots are
occupied as a travellers’ encampment.

1.2

Where under this Schedule the approval or agreement of the highway authority
or the relevant planning authority is required, that approval must be given in
writing.

1.3

Where an approval is required under this Schedule or a document referred to in
a Requirement, or any Requirement specifies “unless otherwise approved”,
“unless otherwise agreed” or “that may subsequently be approved” by the
highway authority or the relevant planning authority such approval or
agreement may only be given where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the highway authority or the relevant planning authority that the subject
matter of the approval or agreement sought is unlikely to give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects from those
assessed in the environmental statement.

1.4

Where this Schedule requires the authorised development to be carried out in
accordance or general accordance with the details approved by the highway
authority or by the relevant planning authority, the approved details are to
be taken to include any amendments that may subsequently be approved in
writing by the highway authority or by the relevant planning authority.

##### Time limits

2

2.1

The authorised development must be commenced within 5 years of the date of
this Order.

2.2

  If any proceedings are begun to challenge the validity of this Order, the
period specified in paragraph (1) is extended by  —

2.2.a

a period equivalent to the period beginning with the day the application is
made and ending on the day it is withdrawn or finally determined, or

2.2.b

if shorter, one year.

2.3

An application is not finally determined for the purposes of   paragraph
(2)(a)   if an appeal in respect of the application—

2.3.a

could be brought (ignoring any possibility of an appeal out of time with
permission), or

2.3.b

has been made and not withdrawn or finally determined.

##### Design drawings

3

3.1

The authorised development must be carried out in general accordance with the
design drawings.

3.2

The authorised development will not be in general accordance with the design
drawings to the extent that any departure from the design drawings gives rise
to any materially new or materially different environmental effects from those
assessed in the environmental statement.

##### Stages of authorised development

4

4.1

The authorised development may not commence until a written scheme setting out
the stages of the authorised development has been submitted to the relevant
planning authority, which scheme may subsequently be amended from time to time
as notified to the relevant planning authority.

4.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the written
scheme setting out the stages of the authorised development submitted under
paragraph (1).

##### Construction management plans

5

5.1

All construction works for the authorised development must be carried out in
accordance with the construction management plans referred to in paragraph
(2), unless otherwise agreed with the relevant planning authority or the
highway authority, as may be appropriate to the relevant plan, scheme or
strategy concerned.

5.2

The construction management plans, which specify the measures to be used to
minimise the impacts of construction works, are the following plans, schemes
and strategies—

5.2.a

the code of construction practice;

5.2.b

the archaeological written scheme of investigation;

5.2.c

the biodiversity mitigation strategy;

5.2.d

the construction traffic management plan;

5.2.e

the public rights of way management plan; and

5.2.f

the noise and vibration management plan.

5.3

For the avoidance of doubt, all pre-commencement works must be carried out in
accordance with the construction management plans and the outline soil
management plan.

##### Construction management plans to be approved

6

6.1

No stage of the authorised development may commence until, for that stage, the
following plans, schemes and strategies as relevant to that stage to minimise
the impacts of construction works have been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority—

6.1.a

soil and aftercare management plan;

6.1.b

drainage management plan;

6.1.c

pollution incident control plan;

6.1.d

lighting scheme;

6.1.e

emergency response plan for flood events;

6.1.f

site waste management plan; and

6.1.g

tree and hedgerow protection strategy.

6.2

The plans, schemes and strategies referred to in paragraph (1) to be submitted
for approval must accord with the relevant plans, schemes and strategies
referred to in requirement 5 (construction management plans) and in the case
of the soil and aftercare management plan must be substantially in accordance
with the outline soil management plan.

6.3

The construction works for each stage of the authorised development and
mitigation works to minimise the impact of construction must be carried out in
accordance with the approved plans, schemes and strategies referred to in
paragraph (1) or with any amended plans, schemes or strategies that may
subsequently be approved by the relevant planning authority.

6.4

The drainage management plan referred to in paragraph (1)(b) must contain
written details of the surface and foul water drainage system (including means
of pollution control and details of maintenance arrangements where required)
for both permanent and temporary works, and any surface or foul water drainage
system must be constructed and maintained in accordance with the details
approved by the relevant planning authority under paragraph (1), following
consultation with the relevant drainage authority.

6.5

The lighting scheme referred to in paragraph 1(d) must contain written details
of the temporary and permanent external lighting to be installed, and any
external lighting must be installed in accordance with the details approved by
the relevant planning authority under paragraph (1).

##### Construction hours

7

7.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) construction works may only take place
between 0700 and 1900 Mondays to Fridays and between 0800 and 1700 on
Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays.

7.2

Piling operations must take place only between 0800 and 1700 on Mondays to
Fridays and 0900 to 1400 on Saturdays.

7.3

The following operations may take place outside the core working hours
referred to in paragraph (1) and (2)—

7.3.a

the jointing of underground cables, with the exception of cable cutting which
must take place only during core working hours;

7.3.b

installation and removal of conductors, pilot wires and associated protective
netting across highways, railway lines or watercourses;

7.3.c

the completion of operations commenced during the core working hours which
cannot safely be stopped;

7.3.d

any highway works requested by the relevant highway authority to be undertaken
on a Saturday or a Sunday or outside the core working hours;

7.3.e

oil processing of transformers or reactors in substation sites;

7.3.f

the testing or commissioning of any electrical plant installed as part of the
authorised development;

7.3.g

the completion of works delayed or held up by severe weather conditions which
disrupted or interrupted normal construction activities;

7.3.h

start up and close down activities, which may take place one hour immediately
prior to or one hour immediately after the core working hours; and

7.3.i

security monitoring.

##### Landscaping at Overton, Tadcaster and Monk Fryston

8

8.1

Unless otherwise agreed with the relevant planning authority, no stage of the
authorised development in connection with the non-linear works at Overton,
Tadcaster and Monk Fryston may commence until, where relevant for that stage,
a landscape strategy that accords with the outline landscape mitigation
strategy has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

8.2

The landscape strategy submitted under paragraph (1) must include details
appropriate for the relevant stage, including—

8.2.a

the location of planting and a schedule of plants noting quantities, species,
size and planting density of any proposed planting or seeding;

8.2.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant and
seed establishment;

8.2.c

details of the five year maintenance regime, including monitoring and
management, and the management regime for any woodland planting in years six
to fifteen; and

8.2.d

details of the design of the proposed levels and slope profiles of any
permanent earthworks.

8.3

The landscape strategy referred to in paragraph (1) must be implemented as
approved, by no later than the first available planting season after the
authorised development is first brought into operational use and carried out
to a reasonable standard in accordance with the relevant recommendations of
the appropriate British Standard or other recognised codes of good practice.

8.4

Any landscape planting, including trees or shrubs planted as part of a
landscape strategy that, within a period of five years after planting, is
removed, dies or becomes in the opinion of the relevant planning authority
seriously damaged or diseased, must be replaced in the first available
planting season with a specimen of the same species and size as that
originally planted, unless otherwise approved by the relevant planning
authority.

##### Retention and protection of existing trees

9

9.1

No stage of the authorised development may commence until, for that stage, a
tree and hedgerow protection strategy (THPS) as referred to in requirement 6
(construction management plans to be approved) and prepared in accordance with
the Arboricultural Impact Assessment report (Document 5.3.3I) and BS 5837:2012
(Trees in relation to design, demolition and construction) identifying the
trees and groups of trees to be retained during that stage has been submitted
to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

9.2

The THPS referred to in paragraph (1) must include—

9.2.a

tree protection plans detailing the alignment of temporary physical tree
protection measures according to BS 5837:2012;

9.2.b

a schedule of all proposed tree and hedgerow removal and management;

9.2.c

specifications for temporary physical protection for trees; and

9.2.d

details of an auditable system of compliance with the approved protection
measures.

9.3

The relevant stage of the authorised development must not commence until the
approved protection measures referred to in paragraph (1) are in place, and
they must thereafter be maintained during the construction of the relevant
stage of the authorised development unless otherwise agreed in writing with
the relevant planning authority.

##### Replacement planting

10

10.1

Subject to paragraph (2), unless otherwise agreed with the relevant planning
authority, no stage of the authorised development may commence until, where
relevant for that stage, a replacement planting scheme in accordance with the
principles contained in the code of construction practice which replaces the
trees and hedgerows identified to be removed in the tree and hedgerow
protection strategy approved under Requirement 9  (retention and protection of
existing trees) , has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

10.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in connection with the non-linear works at
Overton, Tadcaster and Monk Fryston to the extent that replacement planting is
included in the landscape strategy under Requirement 8  (landscaping at
Overton, Tadcaster and Monk Fryston) .

10.3

The scheme for replacement planting submitted under paragraph (1) must include
details appropriate for the relevant stage, including—

10.3.a

the location of planting and a schedule of plants noting quantities, species,
size and planting density of any proposed planting or seeding;

10.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant and
seed establishment; and

10.3.c

details of the five year maintenance regime including monitoring and
management.

10.4

The scheme for replacement planting referred to in paragraph (1) must be
implemented as approved, by no later than the first available planting season
after the authorised development is first brought into operation use and
carried out to a reasonable standard in accordance with the relevant
recommendations of the appropriate British Standard or other recognised codes
of good practice.

10.5

Any replacement planting, including trees and hedgerows planted as part of an
approved replacement planting scheme that, within a period of five years after
planting, is removed, dies or becomes in the opinion of the relevant planning
authority seriously damaged or diseased, must be replaced in the first
available planting season with a specimen of the same species and size as that
originally planted, unless otherwise approved by the relevant planning
authority.

##### Reinstatement schemes

11

11.1

Subject to paragraph (2), any land within the Order limits which is used
temporarily for construction is to be reinstated to its former condition, or
such condition as the relevant planning authority may approve, within twelve
months of completion of construction of the stage of authorised development
for which it was required, or such further time as may be approved by the
relevant planning authority.

11.2

The requirement to reinstate the land to its former condition is subject to
the provisions of articles 36 (temporary use of land by National Grid), 37
(temporary use of land by NPG), 38 (temporary use of land by NGN) and article
39 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development).

##### Contamination of land or groundwater and controlled waters

12

12.1

If during any stage of the authorised development, contamination within the
Order limits is identified as a result of the confirmatory ground
investigations or unexpected contamination discovery procedures described in
chapter 10, Geology and Hydrogeology, of the environmental statement (Document
5.4.10) and the code of construction practice, and this contamination is
considered to present a significant possibility of significant harm to persons
or pollution of controlled waters or the environment then, except in the case
of emergency, no further development in the vicinity of the contamination may
be carried out until a written scheme to identify the extent of the
contamination and any mitigation or remedial measures to be taken to render
the land fit for its intended purpose has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant planning authority, following consultation with the Environment
Agency.

12.2

Should mitigation or remedial measures be required then they must be carried
out in accordance with the approved scheme referred to in paragraph (1) and,
if remedial measures are required, their implementation and validation
documented in a verification report submitted to the planning authority.

12.3

In this requirement (contamination of land or groundwater and controlled
waters), “ controlled waters ” has the same meaning as in Part 2A of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990 .

##### Removal of temporary bridges and culverts

13

Any temporary bridge or culvert required in connection with any stage of the
authorised development must be removed within twelve months of completion of
the construction of that stage of authorised development for which it was
required, or such further time that may subsequently be approved by the
relevant planning authority, after consultation with the Environment Agency or
the relevant drainage authority as appropriate.

##### Highway works

14

14.1

No work to construct or temporarily alter any new or existing means of access
to a highway to be used by vehicular traffic may commence until written
details of the design and layout of that means of access has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant highway authority.

14.2

The highway accesses must be constructed in accordance with the details
approved under paragraph (1) unless otherwise agreed in writing with the
relevant highway authority.

##### Removal of existing overhead line

15

All sections of existing overhead line to be dismantled must be removed no
later than 12 months after the authorised development is first brought into
operational use unless otherwise agreed in writing with the relevant planning
authority.

##### Decommissioning

16

16.1

In the event that, at some future date, the authorised development, or any
part of it, is to be decommissioned, a written scheme of decommissioning must
be submitted for approval by the relevant planning authority at least six
months prior to any decommissioning works.

16.2

The approved scheme must be implemented as approved following the
decommissioning of the authorised development or relevant part of it.

16.3

This requirement (decommissioning) does not apply to the authorised
development and associated development described in Schedule 1 (authorised
development) for the dismantling and removal of existing infrastructure or
apparatus.

##### Clearance over the River Ouse

17

No part of any overhead electric line shall be installed or maintained
directly above the River Ouse at a height of less than 10 metres above the
mean high water level of that river.

##### Approval of details having regard to the Design Approach to Site Specific Infrastructure

18

18.1

Any permanent buildings (including relocated buildings) and the acoustic
enclosures at—

18.1.a

Overton Substation; and

18.1.b

Monk Fryston Substation,

must not be commenced until details of the external colour and surface finish
of the permanent buildings and the external colour of the acoustic enclosures
have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

18.2

Any permanent site security fencing for a non-linear work at

18.2.a

Shipton Tee Cable Sealing End Compounds;

18.2.b

Overton Substation;

18.2.c

Tadcaster Tee Cable Sealing End Compounds; and

18.2.d

Monk Fryston Substation,

must not be commenced until details of the colour or type of the fencing,
which must comply with Technical Specification TS2.10.02 Perimeter Security,
has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

18.3

Any details to be approved   under paragraphs   (1) and (2) must be produced
having regard to the design approach to site specific infrastructure and must
be implemented as approved.

##### Site specific mitigation scheme

19

19.1

No part of Work No. 10 that affects the Travellers’ Encampment may commence
until a scheme to mitigate the impacts of construction activities arising from
those works, including noise, dust, vibration, and visual effects (including
from lighting), has been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant
planning authority.

19.2

The scheme referred to   in paragraph   (1) must include the approach to
liaison for the Travellers’ Encampment during the construction period.

19.3

 In the event that significant effects of noise or vibration are identified on
receptors SEL16 and SEL17 as shown within the Noise and Vibration Figures
(Document 5.4.14), the scheme referred to in paragraph (1) must include
mitigation measures to reduce the significant effects as far as practicable.

19.4

The construction works for that part of Work No. 10 which affects the
Travellers’ Encampment must be carried out in accordance with the approved
scheme referred to   in paragraph   above, unless otherwise agreed with the
relevant planning authority.

  DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

Article 50

##### Applications made under requirements

1

1.1

Where an application has been made to a relevant authority for any consent,
agreement or approval required under Schedule 3 (requirements), the relevant
authority must give notice to the undertaker of its decision on the
application within a period of 35 days beginning with—

1.1.a

where no further information is requested under paragraph 1(2), the day
immediately following that on which the application is received by the
authority;

1.1.b

where further information is requested under paragraph 1(2), the day
immediately following that on which further information has been supplied by
the undertaker; or

1.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the undertaker and the
relevant authority.

1.2

Where an application has been made under paragraph 1(1) the relevant authority
may request such reasonable further information from the undertaker as it
considers is necessary to enable it to consider the application.

1.3

If the relevant authority considers further information is necessary and the
Requirement does not specify that consultation with a requirement consultee is
required, the relevant authority must, within 7 business days of receipt of
the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required.

1.4

If the Requirement specifies that consultation with a requirement consultee is
required, the relevant authority must issue the consultation to the
requirement consultee within 3 business days of receipt of the application and
must notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further information
requested by the requirement consultee within 3 business days of receipt of
such a request and in any event within 21 business days of receipt of the
application.

1.5

If the relevant authority does not give the notification mentioned in sub-
paragraph (3) or (4) it is deemed to have sufficient information to consider
the application and is not thereafter entitled to request further information
without the prior agreement of the undertaker.

##### Fees

2

2.1

Where an application is made to a relevant authority for any consent,
agreement or approval required under Schedule 3 (requirements), a fee must be
paid to the relevant authority as follows—

2.1.a

a fee of £116 per request; or

2.1.b

such other fee as may be prescribed (under sections 303 (fees for planning
applications etc.) and 333(2A) (regulations and orders) of the 1990 Act for
the discharge of conditions attached to a planning permission).

2.2

Any fee paid under this Schedule must be refunded to the undertaker within 35
days of—

2.2.a

the application being rejected as invalidly made; or

2.2.b

the relevant authority failing to determine the application within the
decision period as determined under paragraph 1, unless within that period the
undertaker agrees in writing that the fee may be retained by the relevant
authority and credited in respect of a future application.

##### Appeals

3

3.1

The undertaker may appeal if—

3.1.a

the relevant authority refuses an application for any consent, agreement or
approval required by—

3.1.a.i

a Requirement and any document referred to in any Requirement; or

3.1.a.ii

any other consent, agreement or approval required under this Order, or grants
it subject to conditions to which the undertaker objects;

3.1.b

the relevant authority does not give notice of its decision to the undertaker
within the period specified in paragraph 1(1) (applications made under
requirements);

3.1.c

having received a request for further information under paragraph 1(3)
(applications made under requirements) the undertaker considers that either
the whole or part of the specified information requested by the relevant
authority is not necessary for consideration of the application; or

3.1.d

having received any further information requested, the relevant authority
notifies the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and
requests additional information which the undertaker considers is not
necessary for consideration of the application.

3.2

The procedure for appeals is as follows—

3.2.a

the undertaker must submit to the Secretary of State a copy of the application
submitted to the relevant authority and any supporting documents which the
undertaker may wish to provide (“the appeal documents”);

3.2.b

the undertaker must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documents to
the relevant authority and the requirement consultee (if applicable);

3.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeals documents the Secretary
of State must appoint a person to determine the appeal (“ the appointed person
”) and notify the appeal parties of the identity of the appointed person and
the address to which all correspondence for the appointed person must be sent;

3.2.d

the relevant authority and the requirement consultee (if applicable) may
submit any written representations in respect of the appeal to the appointed
person within 10 business days beginning with the first day immediately
following the date on which the appeal parties are notified of the appointment
of the appointed person and must ensure that copies of their written
representations are sent to each other and to the undertaker on the day on
which they are submitted to the appointed person;

3.2.e

the appeal parties may make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within 10 business days beginning with the first day immediately following the
date of receipt of written representations pursuant to paragraph (d) above;
and

3.2.f

the appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable.

3.3

If the appointed person considers that further information is necessary to
consider the appeal, the appointed person must as soon as practicable notify
the appeal parties in writing specifying the further information required, the
appeal party from whom the information is sought, and the date by which the
information must be submitted.

3.4

Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph (3) must be
provided by the party from whom the information is sought to the appointed
person and to the other appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed
person.

3.5

The appeal parties may submit written representations to the appointed person
concerning matters contained in the further information.

3.6

Any such representations must be submitted to the appointed person and made
available to all appeal parties within 10 business days of the date mentioned
in sub-paragraph (3).

##### Outcome of appeals

4

4.1

On an appeal under paragraph 3 (appeals), the appointed person may—

4.1.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

4.1.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the relevant authority (whether
the appeal relates to that part of it or not) and may deal with the
application as if it had been made to the appointed person in the first
instance.

4.2

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account only such written representations as have been sent within the time
limits prescribed or set by the appointed person under this Schedule.

4.3

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within those time limits if it appears to the
appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision to be
made on the merits of the case.

4.4

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

4.5

Any consent, agreement or approval given by the appointed person pursuant to
this Schedule is deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Schedule 3
(requirements) as if it had been given by the relevant authority.

4.6

The relevant authority may confirm any determination given by the appointed
person in identical form in writing but a failure to give such confirmation
(or a failure to give it in identical form) does not affect or invalidate the
effect of the appointed person’s determination.

4.7

Except where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (8) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the relevant authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

4.8

On application by the relevant authority or the undertaker, the appointed
person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and as to the
parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid.

4.9

In considering whether to make any such direction as to the costs of the
appeal parties and the terms on which it is made, the appointed person must
have regard to the Planning Practice Guidance or any guidance which may from
time to time replace it.

##### Interpretation of Schedule 4

5

In this Schedule—

      “ application ” includes an application made in part or in full as the
context so requires;           “ the appeal parties ” means the relevant
authority, the requirement consultee and the undertaker;           “ relevant
authority ” means the relevant planning authority, highway authority, street
authority, Environment Agency, relevant drainage authority or relevant owner
of a watercourse, sewer or drain as may be appropriate to the consent or
approval sought; and           “ requirement consultee ” means any body named
in a Requirement which is the subject of an appeal as a body to be consulted
by the relevant authority in discharging that Requirement.

  BENEFIT OF THE ORDER RULES

Article 6

##### NPG Works

1

NPG may not carry out the NPG Works under sub-paragraph (3)(a) of article 3
(development consent etc. granted by the Order) except in accordance with the
written consent of National Grid, which may be granted subject to reasonable
conditions.

2

If NPG fails to carry out any of the NPG Works in accordance with National
Grid’s consent, National Grid may give NPG and the Secretary of State notice
that National Grid intends to carry out the NPG Works.

3

On the date specified in any notice under paragraph (2) of this schedule—

3.a

NPG is to cease to have the benefit of sub-paragraph (1) of article 3
(development consent etc. granted by the Order) and sub-paragraph (1) of
article 6 (benefit of the Order);

3.b

NPG is to cease to be an undertaker for the installation of the NPG Works but
remains an undertaker for the purposes of keeping installed and maintaining
the electric lines included in the NPG Works; and

3.c

references to NPG in article 39 (temporary use of land for maintaining the
authorised development) are to be read as including National Grid.

4

Where a notice is issued under paragraph (2), paragraph (3) does not affect
the following insofar as they apply to NPG—

4.a

the operation of the following articles of this Order—

4.a.i

article 3(3)(b), (5) and (6);

4.a.ii

article 4(2);

4.a.iii

article 5;

4.a.iv

article 6; and

4.b

works done and actions undertaken prior to the date specified in that notice.

##### NGN Works

5

NGN may not carry out the NGN Works under sub-paragraph (4)(a) of article 3
(development consent etc. granted by the Order) except in accordance with the
written consent of National Grid, which may be granted subject to reasonable
conditions.

6

If NGN fails to carry out any of the NGN Works in accordance with National
Grid’s consent, National Grid may give NGN and the Secretary of State notice
that National Grid intends to carry out the NGN Works.

7

On the date specified in any notice under paragraph (6) of this schedule—

7.a

NGN is to cease to have the benefit of sub-paragraph (1) of article 3
(development consent etc. granted by the Order) and sub-paragraph (1) of
article 6 (benefit of the Order);

7.b

NGN is to cease to be an undertaker for the installation of the NGN Works but
remains an undertaker for the purposes of keeping installed the underground
gas pipelines included in the NGN Works; and

7.c

references to NGN in article 39 (temporary use of land for maintaining the
authorised development) are to be read as including National Grid.

8

Where a notice is issued under paragraph (6), paragraph (7) does not affect
the following insofar as they apply to NGN—

8.a

the operation of the following articles of this Order—

8.a.i

article 3(4)(b), (5) and (7);

8.a.ii

article 4(2);

8.a.iii

article 5;

8.a.iv

article 6; and

8.b

works done and actions undertaken prior to the date specified in that notice.

##### General

9

The exercise by NPG or NGN of any benefits or rights conferred on it by this
Order is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and obligations as
would apply under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by
National Grid.

10

Article 52 (arbitration) has effect in relation to any dispute under the terms
of this schedule.

  STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS

Article 11

      (1) Authority (2) Street subject to street works   City of York Council
Planville Lane North Yorkshire Council/City of York Council C92 (Corban Lane)
North Yorkshire Council U1720 (ORPA) North Yorkshire Council/City of York
Council A19 (Main Street) North Yorkshire Council U1724 (Overton Road) North
Yorkshire Council/City of York Council U1724 (Stripe Lane) City of York
Council Common Croft Lane North Yorkshire Council U3396 (Church Lane) North
Yorkshire Council U3397 (Red House Lane) North Yorkshire Council A59 (Roman
Road) North Yorkshire Council C283 (Marston Lane) North Yorkshire Council C283
(Atterwith Lane) North Yorkshire Council C273 (Tockwith Road) North Yorkshire
Council B1224 (Weatherby Road) North Yorkshire Council U737 (Healaugh Lane)
North Yorkshire Council C268 (Wighill Lane) North Yorkshire Council C288
(Wighill Lane) North Yorkshire Council A659 (Kelcbar Hill) North Yorkshire
Council A659 (Roman Road) North Yorkshire Council C305 (Garnet Lane) North
Yorkshire Council B1217 North Yorkshire Council U785 (Coldhill Lane) North
Yorkshire Council C311 (Coldhill Lane) North Yorkshire Council U1092 (Laith
Staid Lane) North Yorkshire Council B1222 North Yorkshire Council C320
(Whitecote Lane) North Yorkshire Council U1288 (Westfield Lane) North
Yorkshire Council A63 North Yorkshire Council U1038 (Rawfield Lane)

STREETS SUBJECT TO ALTERATION OF LAYOUT

Article 13

##### STREETS SUBJECT TO PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT

###### North Yorkshire Council

(1) Street subject to alteration of layout (2) Description of alteration of
layout as shown on the access, rights of way and public rights of navigation
plan Overton Road Provision of carriageway widening to aid heavy goods vehicle
manoeuvres and access/egress to the proposed Overton Substation. Works
comprising site clearance, construction of new road surface, white lining,
kerbing and a suitable drainage system as required as shown as JW02 Section B,
Sheet 2. U1720 (ORPA) At bellmouth AP98 as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 the
creation of an access point of sufficient size to accommodate access and
egress of vehicles for operation and maintenance requirements of the site.
Works comprising site clearance, construction of new road surface, white
lining, kerbing and a suitable drainage system as required. A659 At bellmouth
AP31 as shown on Section D Sheet 1 the creation of an access point of
sufficient size to accommodate access and egress of vehicles for operation and
maintenance requirements. Works comprising site clearance, construction of new
road surface, white lining, kerbing and a suitable drainage system as
required. Garnet Lane At bellmouth AP34 as shown on Section D Sheet 1 the
creation of an access point of sufficient size to accommodate access and
egress of vehicles for operation and maintenance requirements. Works
comprising site clearance, construction of new road surface, white lining,
kerbing and a suitable drainage system as required. Rawfield Lane At bellmouth
AP3 as shown on Section F Sheet 1 the creation of an access point of
sufficient size to accommodate access and egress of vehicles for operation and
maintenance requirements. Works comprising site clearance, construction of new
road surface, white lining, kerbing and a suitable drainage system as
required. Overton Road At bellmouth AP89 as shown on Section B Sheet 2 the
creation of an access point of sufficient size to accommodate access and
egress of vehicles for operation and maintenance requirements. Works
comprising site clearance, construction of new road surface, white lining,
kerbing and a suitable drainage system as required.

##### STREETS SUBJECT TO TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF LAYOUT

###### City of York Council

(1) Street subject to alteration of layout (2) Description of alteration of
layout as shown on the access, rights of way and public rights of navigation
plan Planville Lane At AP101 as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. At the Junction of Corban Lane/U1720 (ORPA) At
JW01 (adjacent to AP95) as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. Corban Lane At AP94 as shown on Section B,
Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Common Croft Lane At AP78 as
shown on Section B, Sheet 4 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system.

###### North Yorkshire Council

(1) Street subject to alteration of layout (2) Description of alteration of
layout as shown on the access, rights of way and public rights of navigation
plan U1720 (ORPA) Between AP95 and AP98 on Section B, Sheet 1 the provision of
passing places to allow for safe two way passage of traffic. U1720 (ORPA) At
AP96 as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to
enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle.
Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage
system. U1720 (ORPA) At AP97 as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. A19 At AP93 as shown on Section B, Sheet 3 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. A19 At AP91 as shown on Section B,
Sheet 2 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Overton Road At AP86 as shown
on Section B, Sheet 2 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Overton
Road At AP87 as shown on Section B, Sheet 2 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Overton Road At AP90 as shown on Section B, Sheet 2 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. Overton Road At AP82 as shown on
Section B, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Overton Road At AP84 as
shown on Section B, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Overton
Road At AP85 as shown on Section B, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Stripe Lane At AP80 as shown on Section B, Sheet 3 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. Stripe Lane At AP81 as shown on
Section B, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Church Lane At AP77 as
shown on Section C, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Church
Lane At AP74 as shown on Section C, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. A59 At AP72 as shown on Section C, Sheet 1 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. Marston Lane At AP68 as shown on Section C,
Sheet 2 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Marston Lane At AP69 as shown
on Section C, Sheet 2 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Marston
Lane At AP70 as shown on Section C, Sheet 2 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Marston Lane At AP71 as shown on Section C, Sheet 2 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. Atterwith Lane At AP65 as shown on
Section C, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Atterwith Lane At AP66
as shown on Section C, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system.
Tockwith Road At AP62 as shown on Section C, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Tockwith Road At AP63 as shown on Section C, Sheet 3 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. Tockwith Road At AP64 as shown on
Section C, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. B1224 Weatherby Road At
AP61 as shown on Section C, Sheet 4 the creation of temporary bellmouth to
enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle.
Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage
system. Healaugh Lane At AP59 as shown on Section C, Sheet 4 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. Wighill Lane At AP56 as shown on Section C,
Sheet 6 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Wighill Lane At AP55 as shown
on Section C, Sheet 6 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Wighill
Lane At AP54 as shown on Section C, Sheet 7 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Wighill Lane At AP53 as shown on Section C, Sheet 7 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. Wighill Lane At AP52 as shown on
Section C, Sheet 8 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Wighill Lane At AP50 as
shown on Section C, Sheet 8 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Wighill
Lane At AP49 as shown on Section C, Sheet 8 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. A659 At AP45 as shown on Section C, Sheet 8 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. A659 At AP47 as shown on Section C, Sheet 8
the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient
size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. A659 At AP44 as shown on Section C,
Sheet 9 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. A659 At AP41 as shown on
Section C, Sheet 9 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Garnet Lane At AP33 as
shown on Section D, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. A659 At
AP29 as shown on Section D, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to
enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle.
Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage
system. A659 At AP30 as shown on Section D, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. A659 At AP32 as shown on Section D, Sheet 1 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. A659/A64 Onslip Road At AP28 as shown on
Section D, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. B1217 Wakefield Road At
AP26 as shown on Section E, Sheet 3 the creation of temporary bellmouth to
enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle.
Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage
system. Coldhill Lane At AP22 as shown on Section E, Sheet 3 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. Coldhill Lane At AP21 as shown on Section E,
Sheet 4 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Coldhill Lane At AP20 as
shown on Section E, Sheet 4 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Laith
Staid Lane At AP18 as shown on Section E, Sheet 5 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Laith Staid Lane At AP19 as shown on Section E, Sheet 5 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. B1222 At AP17 as shown on Section E,
Sheet 5 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. B1222 At AP16 as shown on
Section E, Sheet 6 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. B1222 At AP14 as shown
on Section E, Sheet 6 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system.
Whitecote Lane At AP11 as shown on Section E, Sheet 6 the creation of
temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to
accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface
and a suitable drainage system. Westfield Lane At AP10 as shown on Section E,
Sheet 7 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with
sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a
new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Westfield Lane At AP9 as
shown on Section E, Sheet 7 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. A63 At
AP7 as shown on Section E, Sheet 7 the creation of temporary bellmouth to
enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle.
Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage
system. A63 At AP6 as shown on Section F, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary
bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV
vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road surface and a suitable
drainage system. Rawfield Lane At AP5 as shown on Section F, Sheet 1 the
creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress with sufficient size
to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation of a new road
surface and a suitable drainage system. Rawfield Lane At AP4 as shown on
Section F, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable access/egress
with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising the installation
of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system. Rawfield Lane At AP2 as
shown on Section F, Sheet 1 the creation of temporary bellmouth to enable
access/egress with sufficient size to accommodate a HGV vehicle. Comprising
the installation of a new road surface and a suitable drainage system.

  STREETS, CYCLE TRACKS OR PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED

Article 14

##### STREETS, CYCLE TRACKS OR PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED FOR WHICH A DIVERSION IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1) Area (2) Street, cycle track or public right of way to be
temporarily closed (3) Extent of temporary closure as shown on the access,
rights of wat and public rights of navigation plan (4) Temporary diversion as
shown on the access, rights of way and public rights of navigation plan   City
of York Council and North Yorkshire Council U1720 (ORPA) Between points RWS01
and RWS02 as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 Between points RWD01 and RWD02 as
shown on Section B, Sheet 1. North Yorkshire Council 35.55/5/1 Between points
RWS03 and RWS04 as shown on Section E, Sheet 3 Between points RWD03 and RWD04
as shown on Section E, Sheet 3.

##### STREETS, CYCLE TRACKS OR PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED FOR WHICH NO DIVERSION IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1) Area (2) Street, cycle track or public right of way to be
temporarily closed (3) Extent of temporary closure as shown on the access,
rights of way and public rights of navigation plan   North Yorkshire Council
10.129/U1720/50 Between points RW01 to RW02 as shown on Section B, Sheet 1
City of York Council 11/8/40; 11/8/30 and 11/8/20 Between points RW03 to RW04
as shown on Section B, Sheet 1 North Yorkshire Council 10.115/2/3 and
10.115/4/1 Between points RW05 to RW06 as shown on Section B, Sheet 3 City of
York Council 10/3/2020 Between points RW07 to RW08 as shown on Section B,
Sheet 3 City of York Council 10/1/10 and 10/2/10 Between points RW09 to RW10
as shown on Section B, Sheet 4 North Yorkshire Council 15.95/5/2 and 15.95/3
Between points RW11 to RW12 as shown on Section B, Sheet 5 North Yorkshire
Council 15.95/2/3 and 15.95/6/1 Between points RW13 to RW14 as shown on
Section B, Sheet 5 North Yorkshire Council 15.95/7/1 Between points RW15 to
RW16 as shown on Section C, Sheet 2 North Yorkshire Council 15.83/1/1 Between
points RW17 to RW18 as shown on Section C, Sheet 3 North Yorkshire Council
35.33/1/1; 35.33/1/2; and 15.10/4/1 Between points RW19 to RW20 as shown on
Section C, Sheet 5 North Yorkshire Council 35.33/6/7 Between points RW21 to
RW22 as shown on Section C, Sheet 8 North Yorkshire Council 35.64/1/1;
35.64/17/1; and 35.50/3/1 Between points RW23 to RW24 as shown on Section C,
Sheet 8 North Yorkshire Council 35.64/13/2 and 35.64/13/3 Between points RW25
to RW26 as shown on Section C, Sheet 9 North Yorkshire Council 35.63/6/3
Between points RW27 to RW28 as shown on Section E, Sheet 1 North Yorkshire
Council 35.44/4/1; 35.44/1/2; 35.63/3/1; and 35.55/6/1 Between points RW29 to
RW30 as shown on Section E, Sheets 1 and 2 North Yorkshire Council 35.44/1/1
Between points RW31 to RW32 as shown on Section E, Sheet 3 of the Access and
Rights of Way Plan North Yorkshire Council 35.55/5/1 Between points RW33 to
RW34 as shown on Section E, Sheet 3 North Yorkshire Council 35.4/1/1 Between
points RW35 to RW36 as shown on Section E, Sheet 4 North Yorkshire Council
35.59/U1315/30 Between points RW37 to RW38 as shown on Section E, Sheet 7 of
the Access and Rights of Way Plan North Yorkshire Council 35.59/26/1 Between
points RW39 to RW40 as shown on Section E, Sheet 7 North Yorkshire Council
35.59/U1289/70 and 35.59/13/1 Between points RW41 to RW42 as shown on Section
E, Sheet 7

  ACCESS TO WORKS

Article 16

##### CITY OF YORK COUNCIL

      (1) Street name (2) Access reference as shown on the access, rights of
way and public rights of navigation plan (3) Plan Reference for the access,
rights of way and public rights of navigation plan   Common Croft Lane AP78
Section B, Sheet 4 A19 AP93 Section B, Sheet 3 Corban Lane AP94, AP95 Section
B, Sheet 1 Plainville Lane AP101, AP102 Section B, Sheet 1 Murton Way AP103,
AP104 Section A, Sheet 1

##### LEEDS CITY COUNCIL

      (1) Street name (2) Access reference as shown on the access, rights of
way and public rights of navigation plan (3) Plan Reference for the access,
rights of way and public rights of navigation plan   Warren Lane AP36, AP37,
AP38 Section D, Sheet 2 of the Access and Rights of Way plans

##### NORTH YORKSHIRE COUNCIL

      (1) Street name (2) Access reference as shown on the access, rights of
way and public rights of navigation plan (3) Plan Reference for the access,
rights of way and public rights of navigation plan   A162 AP1 Section F, Sheet
1 Rawfield Lane AP2, AP3, AP4, AP5 Section F, Sheet 1 A63 AP6 Section F, Sheet
1 A63 AP7 Section E, Sheet 7 Red Hill Lane AP8 Section E, Sheet 7 Westfield
Lane AP9, AP10 Section E, Sheet 7 Whitecote Lane AP11, AP12 Section E, Sheet 6
B1222 AP13, A14, AP15, AP16 Section E, Sheet 6 B1222 AP17 Section E, Sheet 5
Laith Staid Lane AP18, AP19 Section E, Sheet 5 Coldhill Lane AP20, AP21
Section E, Sheet 4 Coldhill Lane AP22, AP23, AP24 Section E, Sheet 3 B1217
AP25, AP26 Section E, Sheet 3 B1217 AP27 Section E, Sheet 2 A64/A659 Westbound
Onslip AP28 Section D, Sheet 1 A659 AP29, AP30, AP31, AP32 Section D, Sheet 1
Garnet Lane AP33, AP34, AP35 Section D, Sheet 1 of the Access and Rights of
Way Plans C305/Garnet Lane AP39 Section D, Sheet 1 A659 AP40, AP41, AP42,
AP43, AP44 Section C, Sheet 9 A659 AP45, AP46, AP47 Section C, Sheet 8 Wighill
Lane AP48, AP49, AP50, AP51, AP52 Section C, Sheet 8 Wighill Lane AP53, AP54
Section C, Sheet 7 Wighill Lane AP55, AP56, AP57 Section C, Sheet 6 Healaugh
Lane AP58 Section C, Sheet 5 Healaugh Lane AP59 Section C, Sheet 4 B1224 AP60,
AP61 Section C, Sheet 4 Tockwith Road AP62, AP63, AP64 Section C, Sheet 3
Atterwith Lane AP65, AP66 Section C, Sheet 3 Marston Lane AP67, AP68, AP69,
AP70, AP71 Section C, Sheet 2 A59 AP72 Section C, Sheet 1 Red House Lane AP73
Section C, Sheet 1 Church Lane AP74, AP75, AP76, AP77 Section C, Sheet 1
Overton Road AP82, AP83, AP84, AP85, AP86, AP87 Section B, Sheet 3 Overton
Road AP88, AP89, AP90 Section B, Sheet 2 A19 AP91, AP92 Section B, Sheet 2
Stripe Lane AP79, AP80, AP81 Section B, Sheet 3 U1720 (ORPA) AP96, AP97, AP98,
AP99 Section B, Sheet 1 Bull Lane AP100 Section B, Sheet 1

MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 25

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restriction
as they apply as respects compensation on the compulsory purchase of land and
interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3).

2.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 of the 1965 Act as
substituted by paragraph 4 of this Schedule—

2.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

2.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

2.3

For section 58(1)  (determination of material detriment where part of house
etc. proposed for compulsory acquisition), as it applies to determinations
under section 8 of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5 of this
Schedule, substitute—

2.3.1

In determining under section 8(1) or 34(2) of the Compulsory Purchase Act
1965, or section 166(2) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 whether—

2.3.1.a

a right over or a restrictive covenant affecting land consisting of a house,
building or manufactory can be taken or imposed without material detriment or
damage to the house, building or manufactory; or

2.3.1.b

a right over or a restrictive covenant affecting land consisting of a park or
garden belonging to a house can be taken or imposed without seriously
affecting the amenity or convenience of the house,

the Upper Tribunal must take into account not only the effect of the
acquisition of the right or imposition of the restrictive covenant but also
the use to be made of the right or restrictive covenant proposed to be
acquired or imposed, and, in a case where the right or restrictive covenant is
proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or other purposes extending to
other land, the effect of the whole of the works and the use to be made of the
other land.

##### Application of the 1965 Act

3

3.1

The 1965 Act has effect with the modifications necessary to make it apply to
the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a
new right, or to the imposition under this Order of a restrictive covenant, as
it applies to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of land, so that, in
appropriate contexts, references in that Act to land are read (according to
the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or as including
references to—

3.1.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

3.1.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

3.2

Without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (1), Part 1 of the 1965 Act
applies in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right
by the creation of a new right or, in relation to the imposition of a
restriction, with the modifications specified in the following provisions of
this Schedule.

4

For section 7 of the 1965 Act (measure of compensation) substitute—

4.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

5

For section 8 of the 1965 Act (provisions as to divided land) substitute—

5.8

5.8.1

Where in consequence of the service on a person under section 5 of this Act of
a notice to treat in respect of a right over land consisting of a house,
building or manufactory or of a park or garden belonging to a house (“ the
relevant land ”)—

5.8.1.a

a question of disputed compensation in respect of the purchase of the right or
the imposition of the restrictive covenant would apart from this section fall
to be determined by the tribunal; and

5.8.1.b

before the tribunal has determined that question the tribunal is satisfied
that the person has an interest in the whole of the relevant land and is able
and willing to sell that land and—

5.8.1.b.i

where that land consists of a house, building or manufactory, that the right
cannot be purchased or the restrictive covenant imposed without material
detriment to that land; or

5.8.1.b.ii

where that land consists of such a park or garden, that the right cannot be
purchased or the restrictive covenant imposed without seriously affecting the
amenity or convenience of the house to which that land belongs,

the National Grid (Yorkshire Green Energy Enablement Project ) Development
Consent Order 2024 (“ the Order ”) ceases, in relation to that person, to
authorise the purchase of the right or imposition of a restriction and is
deemed to authorise the purchase of that person’s interest in the whole of the
relevant land including, where the land consists of such a park or garden, the
house to which it belongs, and the notice is deemed to have been served in
respect of that interest on such date as the tribunal directs.

5.8.2

Any question as to the extent of the land in which the Order is deemed to
authorise the purchase of an interest by virtue of subsection (1) of this
section must be determined by the tribunal.

5.8.3

Where in consequence of a determination of the tribunal that it is satisfied
as mentioned in subsection (1) of this section the Order is deemed by virtue
of that subsection to authorise the purchase of an interest in land, the
acquiring authority may, at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the date of the determination, withdraw the notice to treat in
consequence of which the determination was made; but nothing in this
subsection prejudices any other power of the authority to withdraw the notice.

6

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

6.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

6.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

6.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

6.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified to secure that, as against persons with interests in the land
which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to be
compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

7

Section 11  of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) is modified to secure that, as
from the date on which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in
respect of any right or restriction, it has power, exercisable in equivalent
circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose
of exercising that right or enforcing that restrictive covenant (which is
deemed for this purpose to have been created on the date of service of the
notice); and sections 12  (penalty for unauthorised entry) and 13  (entry on
warrant in the event of obstruction) of the 1965 Act are modified
correspondingly.

8

Section 20  of the 1965 Act (protection for interests of tenants at will,
etc.) applies with the modifications necessary to secure that persons with
such interests in land as are mentioned in that section are compensated in a
manner corresponding to that in which they would be compensated on a
compulsory acquisition under this Order of that land, but taking into account
only the extent (if any) of such interference with such an interest as is
actually caused, or likely to be caused, by the exercise of the right or the
enforcement of the restrictive covenant in question.

9

Section 22 of the 1965 Act (protection of acquiring authority’s possession
where by inadvertence an estate, right or interest has not been got in) is
modified as to enable the acquiring authority, in circumstances corresponding
to those referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled to exercise
the right acquired or to enforce the restriction imposed, subject to
compliance with that section as respects compensation.

  EXTINGUISHMENT OF PRIVATE RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS RELATING TO
APPARATUS REMOVED FROM LAND SUBJECT TO TEMPORARY POSSESSION

Article 27

##### NATIONAL GRID

      (1) Area (2) Plot   City of York Council A1-02, A1-03, B3-59, B3-62,
B3-64, B3-68 City of York Council and County of North Yorkshire Council B3-33,
B3-58, B4-25 County of North Yorkshire Council B3-29, B3-30, B3-32, B3-34,
B3-39, B3-40, B3-41, B3-46, B3-49, B3-52, B3-54, B3-55, B3-56, B3-57, B5-03,
B5-04, B5-05, B5-06, B5-08, B5-11, B5-12, B5-15, B5-24, B5-27, B5-28, B5-29,
B5-30, B5-33, E7-19, E7-35, E7-36, E7-37, E7-38, E7-39, E7-40, E7-41, E7-43,
E7-44, E7-46, E7-48, E7-49, E7-53, F1-05, F1-07, F1-23, F1-24, F1-29, F1-31,
F1-33, F1-36

##### NPG

      (1) Area (2) Plot   City of York Council B3-68

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Articles 36, 37 and 38

##### NATIONAL GRID

  City of York Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan (2)
Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken (3) Relevant part of the
authorised development (4) Element of Work in respect of which land is not
required to be re-instated   B1-20, B1-21, B1-36, B1-39 Temporary use for
construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 2
B2-02, B2-04, B2-11, B2-16, B2-17 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 3 B2-06, B2-12, B2-21 Temporary
use for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work
No. 4 B3-58, B3-59 Temporary use for dismantling of redundant electrical
infrastructure Work No. 6 B3-62 Temporary use for dismantling of redundant
electrical infrastructure Work No. 6 Removal of pylon foundations only to a
depth of 1.5 metres B3-63, B4-06, B4-09, B4-10, B4-12, B4-14, B4-18, B4-19,
B4-23, B4-24 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work No. 6

  North Yorkshire Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan
(2) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken (3) Relevant part of
the authorised development (4) Element of Work in respect of which land is not
required to be re-instated   B1-19 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 2, U1 B1-20, B1-21, B1-22
Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or
access Work No. 2 B1-25 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 2 Removal of pylon foundations
only to a depth of 1.5 metres B1-33B, B1-39, B1-40A, B1-54, B1-55 Temporary
use for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work
No. 2 B2-06, B2-12, B2-14, B2-21, B2-28, B2-34, B2-48, B2-49, B2-55, B2-61,
B2-64, B2-70, B2-71 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work No. 4 B2-16, B2-17, B2-20, B2-22 Temporary use
for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 3
B2-31, B3-25 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work No. 5 B3-29, B3-30, B3-32, B3-34 Temporary use
for dismantling of redundant electrical infrastructure Work No. 5 B3-39,
B3-40, B3-41, B3-49, B3-58 Temporary use for dismantling of redundant
electrical infrastructure Work No. 6 B3-31, B3-44, B3-45, B3-73, B5-21, B5-58,
B5-59 Temporary use for access Work No. 6 B3-40, B3-46, B3-52, B3-57 Temporary
use for dismantling of redundant electrical infrastructure Work No. 6 Removal
of pylon foundations only to a depth of 1.5 metres B3-54, B3-55 Temporary use
for dismantling of redundant electrical infrastructure Work No. 6 B4-14,
B4-18, B4-23, B4-24, B5-02, B5-06, B5-10, B5-16, B5-28, B5-29, B5-30, B5-37,
B5-38, B5-39 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work No. 6 B5-03, B5-27 Temporary use for
construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 6
Removal of pylon foundations only       to a depth of 1.5 metres     B5-24
Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or
access Work No. 6 Removal of 2x pylon foundations only to a depth of 1.5
metres C9-37, C9-40 Temporary use for access Work No. 8 D1-18, D1-21, D1-69,
D1-70, D1-72, D1-80, D1-81 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 8, U7 D1-26, D1-53 Temporary
use for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work
No. 8 Removal of pylon foundations only to a depth of 1.5 metres D1-34, D1-37,
D1-47, D1-62, D1-78, D1-83 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 8 D1-35, D1-85 Temporary use
for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work Nos.
8, U8 E2-06, E2-07 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 9, U9 E4-12 Temporary use for
construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 9
E6-13, E6-31 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 9, U13 E7-16 Temporary use for
construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 11
E7-27, E7-34, E7-37, E7-42, E7-43, F1-16, F1-26, F1-29, F1-31, F1-32, F1-34,
F1-35, F1-37, F1-38 Temporary use for construction, mitigation, maintenance
dismantling and/or access Work No. 10 E7-35 Temporary use for construction,
mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 10 Removal of pylon
foundations only to a depth of 1.5 metres F1-09 Temporary use for
construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work No. 11

##### NPG

  North Yorkshire Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan
(2) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken (3) Relevant part of
the authorised development (4) Element of Work in respect of which land is not
required to be re-instated   B1-19 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 2, U1 D1-18, D1-21, D1-69,
D1-70, D1-72, D1-80, D1-81, D1-82 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 8, U7 E2-06, E2-07 Temporary
use for construction, mitigation, maintenance dismantling and/or access Work
Nos. 9, U9 E6-13, E6-31 Temporary use for construction, mitigation,
maintenance dismantling and/or access Work Nos. 9, U13

##### NGN

  North Yorkshire Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan
(2) Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken (3) Relevant part of
the authorised development (4) Element of Work in respect of which land is not
required to be re-instated   D1-35, D1-85 Class 4 – Temporary Construction &
Mitigation Work Nos. 8, U8

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 25

##### NATIONAL GRID

  City of York Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan (2)
Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive covenants
imposed (3) Relevant part of the authorised development   A1-01, A1-02
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 1
A1-04 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 1 B1-01, B1-02,
B1-05, B1-08, B1-09, B1-13, B1-15, B1-16, B1-23A, B1-27, B1-28, B1-29, B1-31
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 2
B1-03, B1-04, B1-06, B1-07, B1-10, B1-11, B1-26, B1-32, B1-35, B1-37, B1-42,
B1-50A Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 2 B1-64, B2-08,
B2-13 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No.
3 B1-65, B1-66 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development
Work Nos. 3, U2 B2-03, B2-09, B2-23a, B2-23b Compulsory acquisition of rights
of access Work No. 3 B2-10 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work No. 4 B2-27 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work Nos. 5, 6 B2-74, B2-75, B2-79 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 3, U3 B2-78
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 3
B3-26A Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 5 B3-09A, B3-14A
Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work Nos. 5 B3-15, B3-18, B3-27,
B3-33, B3-35, B3-36, B3-37, B3-38 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work No. 5 B3-61, B3-64, B3-71, B4-11, B4-13, B4-15,
B4-16, B4-21, B4-22, B4-25 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work No. 6 B3-67, B3-68, B3-69, B3-70, B3-72, B4-26 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 6, U4 B4-01,
B4-02, B4-03, B4-04, B4-05, B4-07, B4-08, B4-17, B4-20 Compulsory acquisition
of rights of access Work No. 6

  Leeds City Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan (2)
Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive covenants
imposed (3) Relevant part of the authorised development   D1-65, D2-02, D2-03,
D2-04, D2-05 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 8 D1-66,
D2-01, D2-06 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development
Work No. 8

  North Yorkshire Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan
(2) Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive
covenants imposed (3) Relevant part of the authorised development   B1-12,
B1-14, B1-17, B1-24, B1-35, B1-38, B1-44, B1-50A, B1-52, B1-56, B1-57
Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 2 B1-16, B1-18, B1-23A,
B1-33A, B1-34A, B1-47A, B1-51, B1-53, B1-58, B1-59, B1-62 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 2 B1-60, B1-61,
B1-63 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No.
2, U1 B2-05, B2-07, B2-29, B2-33, B2-38, B2-45, B2-52, B2-56, B2-58, B2-69
Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 4 B2-10, B2-15, B2-43,
B2-62, B2-63, B2-68 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work No. 4 B2-13, B2-19, B2-24, B2-26, B2-78 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 3 B2-23, B2-23a,
B2-23b, B2-76, B2-77 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 3
B2-27 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work
Nos. 5, 6 B2-36, B2-37, B2-40, B2-41, B2-46, B2-50, B2-51, B2-73, B3-28,
B3-42, B3-43, B3-47, B3-48, B3-60, B3-61, B4-15, B4-16, B4-21, B4-22, B4-25,
B5-04, B5-09, B5-11, B5-12, B5-14, B5-22, B5-23, B5-26, B5-33, B5-36, B5-40,
B5-50, B5-51, B5-57 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work No. 6 B2-42, B2-53, B2-54, B2-57, B2-72, B3-50, B3-51, B3-53,
B3-56, B5-01, B5-05, B5-07, B5-08, B5-13, B5-15, B5-17, B5-18, B5-19, B5-20,
B5-25, B5-31, B5-32, B5-34, B5-35, B5-43, B5-49, C1-01 Compulsory acquisition
of rights of access Work No. 6 B3-33, B3-35, B3-38, B3-15, B3-16, B3-18,
B3-19, B3-21, B3-27 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work No. 5 B3-22, B3-23, B3-24 Compulsory acquisition of rights of
access Work No. 5 B5-54, B5-55, B5--56 Compulsory acquisition of rights for
the authorised development Work Nos. 6, U5 B5-41, B5-42, B5-45, B5-47, C1-02,
C1-16 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 7 B5-44, B5-46,
B5-48, B5-52, B5-53, C1-03, C1-04, C1-12, C1-13, C1-15, C1-17, C1-18, C2-07,
C2-07a, C2-08, C2-09, C2-10, C2-12, C2-14, C2-15, C3-13, C3-14, C3-16, C3-17,
C3-18, C3-21, C3-22, C3-24, C4-03, C4-04, C4-08, C4-09, C4-11, C4-12, C4-13,
C4-14, C4-16, C5-05, C5-06, C6-04, C6-05, C6-06, C7-01, C7-02, C7-04, C7-05,
C8-07, C8-08, C8-09, C8-13, C8-20, C8-25, C8-27, C8-28, C8-29, C8-32, C9-01,
C9-02, C9-03, C9-04, C9-05, C9-06, C9-07, C9-08, C9-10, C9-11, C9-13, C9-14,
C9-15, C9-20, C9-21, C9-22, C9-23, C9-30, C9-43, C9-46, C9-47 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 7 C1-05, C1-06,
C1-07, C1-08, C1-09, C1-09a, C1-10, C1-11, C1-14, C2-02, C2-03, C2-04, C2-05,
C2-06, C2-11, C2-13, C2-16, C2-16a, C3-01, C3-02, C3-03, C3-04, C3-05, C3-06,
C3-07, C3-08, C3-09, C3-10, C3-11, C3-12, C3-15, C3-19, C3-20, C3-23, C3-25,
C3-26, C4-01, C4-02, C4-05, C4-06, C4-07, C4-10, C4-15, C4-17, C4-18, C5-01,
C5-02, C5-03, C5-07, C5-08, C6-01, C6-02, C6-03, C6-07, C6-08, C6-09, C6-10,
C6-11, C7-03, C7-06, C7-07, C7-08, C7-09, C7-10, C7-11, C7-12, C8-01, C8-02,
C8-03, C8-04, C8-05, C8-06, C8-10, C8-11, C8-12, C8-14, C8-15, C8-16, C8-17,
C8-18, C8-19, C8-21, C8-22, C8-23, C8-24, C8-26, C8-30, C8-31, C8-33, C8-34,
C9-09, C9-12, C9-16, C9-17, C9-18, C9-19, C9-24, C9-25, C9-26, C9-27, C9-31,
C9-32, C9-34 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 7 C9-33,
C9-36, C9-38, C9-41, D1-02, D1-03, D1-12, D1-24, D1-31, D1-48, D1-50, D1-55,
D1-58, D1-63, D1-79 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 8
C9-35, C9-39, C9-52, D1-01, D1-16 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work Nos. 8, U7 C9-42, C9-44, C9-45 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 7, U6 C9-48,
C9-50 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work
Nos. 7 D1-04, D1-08 To extinguish private rights of access Work No. 8 D1-06,
D1-07, D1-11, D1-13, D1-17, D1-20, D1-22, D1-36, D1-38, D1-40, D1-44, D1-45,
D1-49, D1-64, D1-66 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work No. 8 D1-10, D1-23, D1-27 Compulsory acquisition of rights
for the authorised development Work Nos. 8, U8 D1-25, D1-28, D1-29, D1-39,
D1-42, D1-43, D1-46, D1-51, D1-52, D1-54, D1-56, D1-60, E1-03, E1-04, E1-06,
E1-07, E1-08, E1-09, E1-10, E1-11, E2-01, E2-02, E2-03, E2-09, E2-10, E2-11,
E3-01, E3-02, E3-03, E3-05, E3-06, E3-09, E3-10, E3-12, E3-14, E3-16, E3-20,
E3-24, E3-25, E3-26, E3-27, E3-28, E3-29, E3-30, E3-31, E3-32, E4-01, E4-04,
E4-06, E4-08, E4-13, E4-14, E4-15, E4-16, E4-17, E4-18, E4-19, E5-01, E5-02,
E5-03, E5-04, E5-05, E5-06, E5-07, E5-08, E5-09, E5-18, E5-19, E5-20, E6-01,
E6-02, E6-03, E6-04, E6-05, E6-06, E6-07, E6-08, E6-09, E6-11, E6-14, E6-15,
E6-16, E6-17, E6-32, E6-33, E6-34, E6-35, E6-36, E6-37, E6-38, E6-39, E6-40,
E7-01, E7-02, E7-03, E7-04, E7-07, E7-09, E7-11, E7-13, E7-13a, E7-14, E7-15,
E7-26, E7-56, E7-57 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 9
D1-32, D1-57, E1-01, E1-02, E1-05, E2-04, E3-04, E3-07, E3-08, E3-11, E3-13,
E3-15, E3-17, E3-18, E3-21, E3-22, E3-23, E3-23a, E3-36, E3-37, E3-38, E3-39,
E3-39a, E3-44, E3-47, E4-02, E4-03, E4-05, E4-07, E4-09, E4-10, E4-11, E5-10,
E5-11, E5-12, E5-13, E5-14, E5-15, E5-16, E5-17, E5-21, E5-22, E6-10, E6-18,
E6-19, E6-20, E6-21, E6-22, E6-23, E6-24, E6-25, E6-26, E6-27, E6-28, E6-29,
E6-30, E7-05, E7-06, E7-08, E7-10, E7-12, E7-53, E7-54, E7-55 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 9 D1-59, D1-61,
D1-67, D1-68, D1-74, D1-76 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work Nos. 8, U7 D1-71, D1-82 Compulsory acquisition of rights of
access Work Nos. 8, U7 D1-84 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work Nos. 8, U8 E2-05, E2-08, E2-12, E2-13, E2-14,
E2-15, E2-16, E2-17, E2-18 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work Nos. 9, U9 E3-19, E3-33, E3-34, E3-35, E3-40, E3-41, E3-41a,
E3-42, E3-43 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development
Work Nos. 9, U10 E3-45, E3-46, E3-48, E3-49 Compulsory acquisition of rights
for the authorised development Work Nos. 9, U11 E5-23 Compulsory acquisition
of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 9, U12 E6-12, E6-41, E6-42,
E6-43, E6-44, E6-45, E6-46, E6-47 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work Nos. 9, U13 F1-01, F1-02, F1-11, F1-12 Compulsory
acquisition of rights of access Work No. 11 E7-17, E7-18, E7-20, E7-21, E7-22,
E7-23, E7-24, E7-25, E7-31, E7-36, E7-39, F1-17, F1-19, F1-22, F1-24, F1-28,
F1-30 Compulsory acquisition of rights of access Work No. 10 E7-19, E7-28,
E7-29, E7-30, E7-32, E7-33, E7-38, E7-38a, E7-40, E7-41, E7-41a, E7-44,
E7-44a, E7-45, E7-46, E7-47, E7-48, E7-49, E7-50, E7-51, E7-52, F1-13, F1-14,
F1-18, F1-20, F1-27, F1-33, F1-36, F1-39 Compulsory acquisition of rights for
the authorised development Work No. 10 F1-03, F1-04 Compulsory acquisition of
rights for the authorised development Work No. 11

##### NPG

  City of York Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan (2)
Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive covenants
imposed (3) Relevant part of the authorised development   B1-65, B1-66
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 3,
U2 B2-74, B2-75, B2-79 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work Nos. 3, U3 B3-67, B3-68, B3-69, B3-70, B3-72 Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 6, U4 B4-26
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 6,
U4

  North Yorkshire Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan
(2) Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive
covenants imposed (3) Relevant part of the authorised development   B1-60,
B1-61, B1-63 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development
Work Nos. 2, U1 B5-50, B5-51 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work No. 6 B5-54, B5-55, B5-56 Compulsory acquisition
of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 6, U5 C9-35, C9-39, C9-52,
D1-01, D1-16, D1-30, D1-59, D1-61, D1-67, D1-68, D1-73, D1-74, D1-75, D1-76
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 8,
U7 C9-42, C9-44, C9-45 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work Nos. 7, U6 E2-05, E2-08, E2-12, E2-13, E2-14, E2-15, E2-16,
E2-17, E2-18 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development
Work Nos. 9, U9 E3-19, E3-33, E3-34, E3-35, E3-40, E3-41, E3-41a, E3-42, E3-43
Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work Nos. 9,
U10 E3-45, E3-46, E3-48, E3-49 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the
authorised development Work Nos. 9, U11 E5-23 Compulsory acquisition of rights
for the authorised development Work Nos. 9, U12 E6-12, E6-41, E6-42, E6-43,
E6-44, E6-46, E6-47 Compulsory acquisition of rights for the authorised
development Work Nos. 9, U13 E7-30, E7-38a, E7-41a, E7-44a Compulsory
acquisition of rights for the authorised development Work No. 10

##### NGN

  North Yorkshire Council         (1) Plot number of land shown on land plan
(2) Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive
covenants imposed (3) Relevant part of the authorised development   D1-10
Compulsory Acquisition of Rights for Authorised Development Work Nos. 8, U8
D1-15, D1-19, D1-84 Compulsory Acquisition of Rights for Authorised
Development Work Nos. 8, U8

  TRAFFIC REGULATION

Article 45

      Highway Authority (1) Road (2) Extent as shown on the traffic regulation
order plan (3) Note   City of York Council and North Yorkshire Council
Plainville Lane and Bull Lane Between points TR01, and TR02 as shown on
Section B, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire
Council U1720 (ORPA) Between points TR03 and TR04 as shown on Section B, Sheet
1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between
07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council/City of York
Council Corban Lane Between points TR05 and TR06 as shown on Section B, Sheet
1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between
07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council A19 Between
points TR07 and TR08 as shown on Section B, Sheet 2. Prohibition of vehicular
access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday
to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Overton Road Between points TR09 and TR10
as shown on Section B, Sheets 2 and 3. Prohibition of vehicular access at any
time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday.
North Yorkshire Council/City of York Council Stripe Lane Between points TR11
and TR12 as shown on Section B, Sheet 3. Prohibition of vehicular access at
any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday.
City of York Council Common Croft Lane Between points TR15 and TR16 as shown
on Section B, Sheet 4. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire
Council Church Lane Between points TR17 and TR18 as shown on Section C, Sheet
1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between
07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council A59 Between
points TR19 and TR20 as shown on Section C, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular
access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday
to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Marston Lane Between points TR21 and TR22
as shown on Section C, Sheet 2. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time.
No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North
Yorkshire Council Atterwith Lane Between points TR23 to TR24 as shown on
Section C, Sheet 3. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire
Council Tockwith Road Between the point TR25 and TR26 as shown on Section C,
Sheet 3. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction
between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council B1224
Between the point TR27 and TR28 as shown on Section C, Sheet 4. Prohibition of
vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to
07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Healaugh Lane Between the
point TR29 and TR30 as shown on Section C, Sheet 4. Prohibition of vehicular
access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday
to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Wighill Lane Between the point TR31 and
TR32 as shown on Section C, Sheet 6. Prohibition of vehicular access at any
time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday.
North Yorkshire Council Wighill Lane Between the point TR33 and TR34 as shown
on Section C, Sheet 8. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire
Council A659 Between the point TR35 and TR36 as shown on Section C, Sheet 8.
Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between
07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council A659 Between the
point TR37 and TR38 as shown on Section C, Sheet 9. Prohibition of vehicular
access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday
to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Garnett Lane Between the point TR39 and
TR40 as shown on Section D, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any
time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday.
North Yorkshire Council A659 Between the point TR41 and TR42 as shown on
Section D, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. Leeds City Council
Warren Lane Between the point TR43 and TR44 as shown on Section D, Sheet 2.
Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between
07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. National Highways A64 Between the point
TR45 and TR46 as shown on Section D, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular access
at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to
Sunday. National Highways A659/A64 Westbound Onslip Between the point TR47 and
TR48 as shown on Section D, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular access at any
time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday.
North Yorkshire Council B1217 Between the points TR49 and TR50 as shown on
Section E, Sheet 3. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire
Council Coldhill Lane Between the points TR51 and TR52 as shown on Section E,
Sheet 3. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction
between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Coldhill
Lane Between the points TR53 and TR54 as shown on Section E, Sheet 4.
Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between
07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Laith Staid Lane
Between the points TR55 and TR56 as shown on Section E, Sheet 5. Prohibition
of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to
07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council B1222 Between the points
TR57 and TR58 as shown on Section E, Sheet 5. Prohibition of vehicular access
at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to
Sunday. North Yorkshire Council B1222 Between the points TR59 and TR60 as
shown on Section E, Sheet 6. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No
waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North
Yorkshire Council Whitecote Lane Between the points TR61 and TR62 as shown on
Section E, Sheet 6. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting
restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire
Council Westfield Lane Between the points TR63 and TR64 as shown on Section E,
Sheet 7. Prohibition of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction
between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council A63
Between the points TR65 and TR66 as shown on Section E, Sheet 7. Prohibition
of vehicular access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to
07:00pm Monday to Sunday. North Yorkshire Council Rawfield Lane Between the
points TR67 and TR68 as shown on Section F, Sheet 1. Prohibition of vehicular
access at any time. No waiting restriction between 07:00am to 07:00pm Monday
to Sunday.

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Article 47

##### PROTECTION FOR ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the statutory undertakers referred to in this Part of
this Schedule the following provisions, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker concerned, have effect.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the relevant statutory undertaker to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner not less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means—
in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant
(as defined in the 1989 Act ), belonging to or maintained by that electricity
undertaker for the purposes of electricity supply;           in the case of a
gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained
by that gas undertaker for the purposes of gas supply;           in the case
of a water undertaker, mains, pipes or other water apparatus belonging to or
maintained by that water undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and
in the case of a sewerage undertaker—         any drain or works vested in
that undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and           any sewer
which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given
under section 102(4) (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an
agreement to adopt made under section 104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or
sewage disposal works, at future date) of that Act, and includes a sludge
main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 (general
interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating
shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer, drain or
works, and in each case includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to
be lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus;
“ functions ” includes powers and duties;           “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;           “
relevant statutory undertaker ” means, in relation to any apparatus, the
statutory undertaker that owns the apparatus or is responsible for its
maintenance; and           “ statutory undertaker ” means—         any licence
holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the 1989 Act;           a gas
transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 ;           a
water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and
a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act
1991, for the area of the authorised development.

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

4

4.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule and any right
of a statutory undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the relevant statutory undertaker.

4.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to the relevant
statutory undertaker written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
and section of the work proposed.

4.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed as
a consequence of the removal of apparatus placed on the land referred to in
sub-paragraph (2), the relevant statutory undertaker, must on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably
possible use its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights
in other land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

4.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the relevant statutory undertaker and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 52 (arbitration).

4.5

The relevant statutory undertaker must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 52 (arbitration), and after the grant to the statutory
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into
operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of
this Schedule.

4.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the relevant statutory undertaker that it desires itself to execute
any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or removal
of apparatus, that work, instead of being executed by the statutory
undertaker, must be executed by the undertaker without unnecessary delay under
the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable satisfaction of the
statutory undertaker.

4.7

If the relevant statutory undertaker fails either reasonably to approve, or to
provide reasons for its failure to approve along with an indication of what
would be required to make acceptable, any proposed details relating to
required removal works under sub-paragraph (2) within 28 days of receiving a
notice of the required works from the undertaker, then such details are deemed
to have been approved. For the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent”
does not extend to the actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall
remain the sole responsibility of the relevant statutory undertaker or its
contractors.

5

5.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works of the type
referred to in paragraph 4(2) that are near to, or will affect, any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
4(2), the undertaker must submit to the relevant statutory undertaker a plan,
section and description of the works to be executed.

5.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
the statutory undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of
the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the statutory undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

5.3

Any requirements made by a statutory undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must
be made within a period of 28 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

5.4

If a statutory undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 4(2).

5.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

5.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the relevant statutory undertaker
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

6

6.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to the relevant statutory undertaker the proper and reasonable expenses
reasonably incurred by that statutory undertaker in, or in connection with,
the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus.

6.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of the
Schedule is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that
value being calculated after removal.

6.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

6.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

6.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 52 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the relevant statutory undertaker by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

6.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

6.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

6.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

6.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a statutory
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the relevant
statutory undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for
renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount
which represents that benefit.

##### PROTECTION FOR OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

7

7.1

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator, have effect.

7.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ conduit system ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code and references to providing a conduit system are to be
construed in accordance with paragraph 1(3A) of that code;           “
electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code;           “ the electronic communications code
” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Communications Act
2003 ;           “ electronic communications code network ” means—         so
much of an electronic communications network or conduit system provided by an
electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the
application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section
106 (application of the electronic communications code) of the Communications
Act 2003; and           an electronic communications network which the
Secretary of State is providing or proposing to provide;                 “
electronic communications code operator ” means a person in whose case the
electronic communications code is applied by a direction under section 106
(application of the electronic communications code) of the Communications Act
2003; and           “ operator ” means the operator of an electronic
communications code network.

8

The exercise of the powers of article 40 (statutory undertakers) are subject
to paragraph 23 of Schedule 2 (the telecommunications code) to the
Telecommunications Act 1984 .

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (3), if as the result of the authorised
development or their construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus
belonging to an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works, or other property of an operator) the undertaker must bear and pay the
cost reasonably and properly incurred by the operator in making good such
damage.

9.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

9.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which consent must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.

9.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this
paragraph must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 52
(arbitration).

10

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

10.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act; or

10.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

11

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE CANAL & RIVER TRUST

###### Interpretation

12

12.1

For the protection of the Trust the following provisions of this part of this
Schedule have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and the Trust, in relation to the removal, installation and
maintenance of the overhead electric lines comprised in Work No. 6 (XC and XCP
overhead electric lines, and XC overhead electric line) of Schedule 1
(authorised development) and any associated development in connection with it.

12.2

In this part of this Schedule—

      “ Code of Practice ” means the Code of Practice for Works Affecting the
Canal and River Trust (April 2023) or any updates or amendments thereto
(provided any such updates or amendments do not adversely impact the ability
of the undertaker to construct and maintain Work No.6 (XC and XCP overhead
electric lines, and XC overhead electric line) of Schedule 1 (authorised
development) and any associated development in connection with it);
“ detriment ” means any damage to the waterway or any other property of the
Trust caused by the presence of Work No. 6 (XC and XCP overhead electric
lines, and XC overhead electric line) of Schedule 1 (authorised development)
and any associated development in connection with it and, without prejudice to
the generality of that meaning, includes—         any obstruction of, or
interference with, or hindrance or danger to, navigation or to any use of the
waterway (including towing paths);           the erosion of the bed or banks
of the waterway, or the impairment of the stability of any works, lands or
premises forming part of the waterway;           the deposit of materials or
the siltation of the waterway so as to damage the waterway;           the
pollution of the waterway;           any interference with the exercise by any
person of rights over the Trust’s network;                 “ the engineer ”
means an engineer appointed by the Trust for the purpose in question;
“ plans ” includes navigational risk assessments, plans, sections, designs,
drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations, descriptions (including
descriptions of methods of construction) and programmes;           “ practical
completion ” means practical completion of all of the specified work
notwithstanding that items which would ordinarily be considered snagging items
remain outstanding, and the expression “practically complete” and “
practically completed ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ specified
work ” means so much of Work No. 6 (XC and XCP overhead electric lines, and XC
overhead electric line) of Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any
associated development in connection with it as is, may be, or takes place in,
on, under or over the surface of land below the water level forming part of
the waterway; or may affect the waterway or any function of the Trust,
including any projection over the waterway by any authorised work or any plant
or machinery;           “ the Trust ” means the Canal & River Trust;
“ the Trust’s network ” means the Trust’s network of waterways;           “
the waterway ” means each and every part of the River Ouse, and includes any
works, lands or premises belonging to the Trust, or under its management or
control, and held or used by the Trust in connection with that river.

12.3

The Code of Practice applies to any specified work and where there is an
inconsistency between these protective provisions and the Code of Practice,
the part of the Code of Practice that is inconsistent with these protective
provisions does not apply and these protective provisions apply.

###### Notice to be given prior to specified works

13

13.1

Unless 28 days’ prior written notice is given by the undertaker to the Trust
(or such other period as is agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
Trust), the undertaker will not construct or, to the extent that it would
affect the waterway or any function of the Trust, maintain any specified work
between—

13.1.a

10pm and 6am during the months April to October; or

13.1.b

7pm and 7am during the months November to March.

13.2

The undertaker will not construct or, to the extent that it would affect the
waterway or any function of the Trust, maintain any specified work outside of
the timescales provided for within subparagraphs (1)(a) and (1)(b) unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Trust.

13.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) will not apply in the case of emergency, in which case
no prior written notice is required and immediate access must be afforded by
the Trust.

###### Fencing

14

Where so required by the engineer the undertaker must, to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer, fence off a specified work or take such other
steps as the engineer may require to be taken for the purpose of separating a
specified work from the waterway, whether on a temporary or permanent basis or
both.

###### Survey of waterway

15

15.1

Before the initial construction or, to the extent that it would affect the
waterway or any function of the Trust, maintenance of any part of the
specified work and again following practical completion of the specified work
the undertaker must bear the reasonable and proper cost of the carrying out by
a qualified engineer (the “surveyor”), to be approved by the Trust and the
undertaker (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld), of a survey (“the
survey”) of so much of the waterway and of any land and existing works of the
undertaker which may provide support for the waterway as will or may be
affected by the specified work.

15.2

For the purposes of the survey the undertaker must—

15.2.a

on being given reasonable notice (save in case of emergency, when immediate
access must be afforded) afford reasonable facilities to the surveyor for
access to the site of the specified work and to any land and existing works of
the undertaker which may provide support for the waterway as will or may be
affected by the specified work; and

15.2.b

supply the surveyor as soon as reasonably practicable with all such
information as he may reasonably require and which the undertaker holds with
regard to such existing works of the undertaker and to the specified work or
the method of their construction.

15.3

Copies of the survey must be provided to both the Trust and the undertaker at
no cost to the Trust.

15.4

The surveyor must undertake the survey required under sub-paragraph (1) in a
timely manner so as to cause no unreasonable delay to the initial construction
or, to the extent that it would affect the waterway or any function of the
Trust, maintenance of any part of the specified work.

###### Approval of plans etc.

16

16.1

The undertaker must before the initial construction or, to the extent that it
would affect the waterway or any function of the Trust, commencement of
maintenance of any specified work including any temporary works supply to the
Trust proper and sufficient plans of that work having regard to the Trust’s
Code of Practice and such further particulars available to it as the Trust may
within 14 days of the submission of the plans reasonably require for the
approval of the engineer and must not commence such construction or, to the
extent that it would affect the waterway or any function of the Trust,
maintenance of a specified work until plans of that work have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration.

16.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), an application for approval under this paragraph
is deemed to have been approved if it is neither given nor refused within 28
days of the specified day.

16.3

An approval of the engineer under this paragraph is not deemed to have been
unreasonably withheld if approval within the time specified by sub-paragraph
(2) has not been given pending the outcome of any consultation on the approval
in question that the Trust is obliged to carry out in the proper exercise of
its functions.

16.4

In this paragraph “ the specified day ” means, in relation to any specified
works—

16.4.a

the day on which plans and sections of that work are submitted to the Trust
under sub-paragraph (1); or

16.4.b

the day on which the undertaker provides the Trust with all further
particulars of the work that have been requested by the Trust under that sub-
paragraph,

whichever is the later.

###### Failure to complete specified works

17

In the event that the undertaker fails to complete the construction of, or
part of, the specified work by the end of the construction period for the
stage within which the specified work is included the Trust may, if it is
reasonably required in order to avoid detriment, serve on the undertaker a
notice in writing requesting that the specified work be completed. Any notice
served under this paragraph must state the works that are to be completed by
the undertaker and lay out a reasonable timetable for the works’ completion.
The undertaker must complete the specified work as soon as reasonably
practicable following receipt of any such notice. If the undertaker fails to
comply with this notice within 35 days, the Trust may, so far as it is
capable, construct any of the specified works, or part of such works,
(together with any adjoining works), except for Work No. 6 (XC and XCP
overhead electric lines, and XC overhead electric line) of Schedule 1
(authorised development), in order to complete the specified work, or part of
them, and the undertaker must reimburse the Trust all costs, fees, charges and
expenses it has reasonably incurred in carrying out such works.

###### Lighting

18

The undertaker must provide and maintain at its own expense in the vicinity of
the specified work such temporary lighting and such signal lights for the
control of navigation as the engineer may reasonably require during the
construction or, to the extent that it would affect the waterway or any
function of the Trust, maintenance of the specified work.

###### Construction of specified works

19

19.1

Any specified work must, be constructed and maintained—

19.1.a

with all reasonable dispatch in accordance with any such plans approved or
deemed to have been approved or settled as aforesaid and with any
specifications made under paragraph 16 of this Part;

19.1.b

under the supervision (if given) and to the reasonable satisfaction of the
engineer;

19.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little detriment as is reasonably practicable;

19.1.d

in such manner as to cause as little inconvenience as is reasonably
practicable to the Trust, its officers and agents and all other persons
lawfully using the waterways, except to the extent that any temporary
obstruction or restriction or diversion of the rights of navigation have
otherwise been agreed by the Trust or are permitted under this Part;

19.1.e

in such a manner as to ensure that no materials are discharged or deposited
into the waterway under this Order otherwise than in accordance with article
19 (discharge of water); and

19.1.f

in compliance with the Code of Practice.

19.2

Nothing in this Order authorises the undertaker to make or maintain any
permanent works in or over the waterway so as to impede or prevent (whether by
reducing the width of the waterway or otherwise) the passage of any vessel
which is of a kind (as to its dimensions) for which the Trust is required by
section 105(1)(b) and (2) (maintenance of waterways) of the Transport Act 1968
to maintain the waterway.

19.3

Following the completion of the construction and, to the extent that it would
affect the waterway or any function of the Trust, any maintenance of the
specified work the undertaker must restore the waterway, save in respect of
the retention of the new permanent overhead line comprised in Work No. 6 (XC
and XCP overhead electric lines, and XC overhead electric line) of Schedule 1
(authorised development), to a condition no less satisfactory than its
condition immediately prior to construction or maintenance of that work,
unless otherwise agreed between the undertaker and the Trust.

19.4

In assessing whether the condition of the waterway is no less satisfactory
than its condition immediately prior to the works pursuant to sub-paragraph
(3), the Trust and the undertaker must take account of any survey issued
pursuant to paragraph 15 and any other information agreed between them
pursuant to this Part.

###### Access to work – provision of information

20

20.1

The undertaker on being given reasonable notice must—

20.1.a

at all reasonable times allow reasonable facilities to the engineer for access
to a specified work during its construction and, to the extent that it would
affect the waterway or any function of the Trust, maintenance; and

20.1.b

supply the engineer with all such information as the engineer may reasonably
require with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing and
maintaining it.

20.2

The Trust on being given reasonable notice must supply the undertaker with
such information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works or the
method of constructing them and the undertaker must reimburse the Trust’s
reasonable costs in relation to the supply of such information.

###### Maintenance of works

21

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in the Trust, the Trust gives notice to the undertaker informing it
that it reasonably considers that the state of maintenance of the work appears
to be such that the work is causing or likely to cause detriment, the
undertaker must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be
reasonably necessary to put the work in such state of maintenance as not to
cause such detriment.

###### Repayment of the Trust’s fees, etc.

22

22.1

The undertaker must repay to the Trust in accordance with the Code of Practice
all fees, costs, charges and expenses reasonably incurred by the Trust—

22.1.a

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction or, to the
extent that it would affect the waterway or any function of the Trust,
maintenance of a specified work;

22.1.b

in respect of the employment during the construction or, to the extent that it
would affect the waterway or any function of the Trust, maintenance of the
specified work of any inspectors, watchmen and other persons whom it is
reasonably necessary to appoint for inspecting, watching and lighting any
waterway and for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable,
interference, obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or
failure of the specified work;

22.1.c

in bringing the specified work to the notice of users of the Trust’s network;
and

22.1.d

in constructing and/or carrying out any measures as a result of any specified
work which are reasonably required by the Trust to ensure the safe navigation
of the waterway save that nothing is to require the Trust to construct and/or
carry out any measures.

22.2

If the Trust considers that a fee, charge, cost or expense will be payable by
the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph (1), the Trust will first provide an
estimate of that fee, charge, cost or expense and supporting information in
relation to the estimate to the undertaker along with a proposed timescale for
payment for consideration and the undertaker may, within a period of twenty-
one days—

22.2.a

provide confirmation to the Trust that the estimate is agreed and pay to the
Trust, by the date stipulated, that fee, charge, cost or expense; or

22.2.b

provide confirmation to the Trust that the estimate is not accepted along with
a revised estimate and a proposal as to how or why the undertaker considers
that the estimate can be reduced and/or paid at a later date.

22.3

The Trust must take in to account any representations made by the undertaker
in accordance with this paragraph 22 and must, within twenty-one days of
receipt of the information pursuant to sub-paragraph (1), confirm the amount
of the fee, charge, cost or expense to be paid by the undertaker (if any) and
the date by which this is to be paid.

22.4

any dispute as to the fee, charge, cost or expense specified by the Trust
pursuant to sub-paragraph (3) will be settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 52 (arbitration) of this Order.

###### Making good of detriment; compensation and indemnity, etc.

23

23.1

If any detriment is caused by the construction or failure of the specified
work if carried out by the undertaker, the undertaker (if so required by the
Trust) must make good such detriment and must pay to the Trust all reasonable
and proper expenses incurred by the Trust, and compensation for any loss
sustained by the Trust in making good or otherwise by reason of the detriment.

23.2

The undertaker must be responsible for and make good to the Trust all costs,
charges, damages, expenses and losses not otherwise provided for in this Part
which may be occasioned to and reasonably incurred by the Trust—

23.2.a

by reason of the construction or, to the extent that it would affect the
waterway or any function of the Trust, maintenance of a specified work or the
failure of such a work; or

23.2.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon the construction
or, to the extent that it would affect the waterway or any function of the
Trust, maintenance of a specified work;

and subject to sub-paragraph (4) the undertaker must effectively indemnify and
hold harmless the Trust from and against all claims and demands arising out of
or in connection with any of the matters referred to in subparagraphs (a) and
(b) (provided that the Trust is not entitled to recover from the undertaker
any consequential losses which are not reasonably foreseeable) subject to a
maximum sum of £10 million (ten million pounds).

23.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (2) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any detriment, damage, loss or interruption to the extent that it
is attributable to the act, neglect or default of the Trust, its officers,
servants, contractors or agents.

23.4

The Trust must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand as aforesaid and no settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand
is to be made without the prior consent of the undertaker.

###### Arbitration

24

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the Trust under this Part
(other than a difference as to the meaning or construction of this Part) must
be referred to and settled by arbitration in accordance with article 52
(arbitration) of this Order.

###### As built drawings

25

As soon as reasonably practicable following the completion of the construction
of the authorised development, the undertaker must provide to the Trust as
built drawings of any specified work to show the position of that work in
relation to the waterway.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF RAILWAY INTERESTS

26

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail and, in the case of
paragraph 40 of this Part of this Schedule any other person on whom rights or
obligations are conferred by that paragraph.

27

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ asset protection agreement ” means an agreement to regulate the
construction and maintenance of the specified work in a form reasonably
prescribed from time to time by Network Rail save for matters concerning
requirements imposed by Network Rail in order for Network Rail to comply with
its statutory duties, regulatory duties or the terms of its network licence in
which case such matters shall be in Network Rail’s absolute discretion and in
determining whether or not such matters fall within those constraints Network
Rail shall at all times act reasonably;           “ construction ” includes
execution, placing, alteration and reconstruction and “construct” and
“constructed” have corresponding meanings;           “ the engineer ” means an
engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes of this Order;           “
network licence ” means the network licence, as the same is amended from time
to time, granted to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited by the Secretary of
State in exercise of their powers under section 8 (licences) of the Railways
Act 1993;           “ Network Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited
(company number 02904587, whose registered office is at Waterloo General
Office, London, SE1 8SW) and any associated company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited which holds property for railway purposes, and for the
purpose of this definition “ associated company ” means any company which is
(within the meaning of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006) the holding
company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited or another subsidiary of the holding company of Network
Rail Infrastructure Limited and any successor to Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited’s railway undertaking;           “ plans ” includes sections, designs,
design data, software, drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations,
descriptions (including descriptions of methods of construction), staging
proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any
proposed occupation of railway property;           “ railway operational
procedures ” means procedures specified under any access agreement (as defined
in the Railways Act 1993) or station lease;           “ railway property ”
means any railway belonging to Network Rail and—         any station, land,
works, apparatus and equipment belonging to Network Rail or connected with any
such railway; and           any easement or other property interest held or
used by Network Rail or a tenant or licencee of Network Rail for the purposes
of such railway or works, apparatus or equipment;                 “ regulatory
consents ” means any consent or approval required under—         the Railways
Act 1993;           the network licence; and/or           any other relevant
statutory or regulatory provisions;         by either the Office of Rail and
Road or the Secretary of State for Transport or any other competent body
including change procedures and any other consents, approvals of any access or
beneficiary that may be required in relation to the authorised development;
“ specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised development as is
situated upon, across, under, over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way
adversely affect, railway property and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes
the maintenance of such works under the powers conferred by article 39
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) in respect
of such works.

28

28.1

Where under this Part of this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its
consent or approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

28.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

28.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

28.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development pursuant to this Order.

29

29.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2) the undertaker must not exercise in respect of
any railway property the powers conferred by this Order in—

29.1.a

article 19 (discharge of water);

29.1.b

article 21 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

29.1.c

article 26 (extinguishment and suspension of private rights of way);

29.2

The powers in sub-paragraph (1) shall not be exercised in respect of any
railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with the consent of
Network Rail such consent not to be unreasonably withheld and if by the end of
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which such request for
Network Rail’s consent was made Network Rail has not intimated their refusal
together with the grounds of any such refusal of such consent the undertaker
may serve upon Network Rail written notice requiring Network Rail to intimate
approval or disapproval within a further period of 14 days beginning with the
date upon which Network Rail receives written notice from the undertaker. If
by the expiry of the further 14 days Network Rail has not intimated consent or
refusal of consent, Network Rail is deemed to have given consent for the
exercise of the respective powers.

29.3

The undertaker must not in the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this
Order prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

29.4

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272
of the 1990 Act, article 26 (extinguishment and suspension of private rights),
article 28 (power to override easements and other rights or private rights of
way) or article 40 (statutory undertakers), in relation to any right of access
of Network Rail to railway property, but such right of access may be diverted
with the consent of Network Rail.

29.5

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order do anything which would
result in railway property being incapable of being used or maintained or
which would affect the safe running of trains on the railway.

29.6

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions but it shall never be unreasonable to withhold consent
for reasons of operational or railway safety (such matters to be in Network
Rail’s absolute discretion).

29.7

The undertaker must enter into an asset protection agreement prior to the
carrying out of any specified work.

30

30.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration under article 52
(arbitration).

30.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
intimated their disapproval together with the grounds of any such disapproval
of those plans and the grounds of such disapproval the undertaker may serve
upon the engineer written notice requiring the engineer to intimate approval
or disapproval within a further period of 14 days beginning with the date upon
which the engineer receives written notice from the undertaker. If by the
expiry of the further 14 days the engineer has not intimated approval or
disapproval, the engineer is deemed to have approved the plans as submitted.

30.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
without unnecessary delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of
the undertaker in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the undertaker and if reasonably required by the undertaker
upon reasonable prior written notice Network Rail will construct any adjoining
part of the specified work (“adjoining work”) without unnecessary delay on
behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of the undertaker in accordance
with the plans approved or deemed to be approved or settled under this
paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) of the
undertaker subject to—

30.3.a

such adjoining work being located on railway property;

30.3.b

Network Rail having sufficient rights to carry out such adjoining work;

30.3.c

the undertaker first providing Network Rail with the requisite plans,
specifications and any other information reasonably required by Network Rail
to enable it to carry out such adjoining work;

30.3.d

the engineer’s approval of such adjoining work; and

30.3.e

Network Rail being able to recover its costs of carrying out such adjoining
work pursuant to paragraph 40(1).

30.4

When signifying approval of the plans the engineer may specify any protective
works (whether temporary or permanent) which in the opinion of the engineer
must be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a specified
work to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the continuation
of safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail or the
services of operators using the same (including any relocation de-
commissioning and removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a
specified work and the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by
the specified work), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary
for those purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker,
if Network Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at
the expense of the undertaker in either case with all reasonable dispatch and
the undertaker must not commence the construction of the specified works until
the engineer has notified the undertaker that the protective works have been
completed to their reasonable satisfaction.

31

31.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph 30(4) must, when commenced, be constructed—

31.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph 30;

31.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

31.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to operational
railway property; and

31.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

31.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction is
caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence of the construction of a
specified work, the undertaker must, notwithstanding any such approval, make
good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to which
Network Rail may be put and compensation for any loss which it may sustain by
reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

31.3

Nothing in this Part imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of Network
Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any liability on Network Rail
with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors or agents.

32

The undertaker must—

32.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

32.b

supply the engineer with all such information as the engineer may reasonably
require with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

33

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part during their construction and must supply the undertaker with such
information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works or the
method of constructing them.

34

34.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of a specified work,
or during a period of 24 months after the completion of that work, in order to
ensure the safety of railway property or the continued safe operation of the
railway of Network Rail, such alterations and additions may be carried out by
Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the undertaker 56 days’ notice (or
in the event of an emergency or safety critical issue such notice as is
reasonable in the circumstances) of its intention to carry out such
alterations or additions (which must be specified in the notice) , and within
42 days of receipt of an invoice (or other evidence of the liability incurred
in carrying out the alterations and additions) from Network Rail the
undertaker must pay to Network Rail the reasonable cost of those alterations
or additions including, in respect of any such alterations and additions as
are to be permanent, a capitalised sum representing the increase of the costs
which may be expected to be reasonably incurred by Network Rail in
maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing any such alterations or
additions.

34.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction
of that part of the specified work and the undertaker must, notwithstanding
any such approval of a specified work under paragraph 30(3), pay to Network
Rail all reasonable and proper expenses to which Network Rail may be put and
compensation for any loss which it suffers by reason of the execution by
Network Rail of that specified work.

34.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 40(1)(a) provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

34.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

35

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

35.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph 30(3) or in constructing any protective works under the
provisions of paragraph 30(4) including, in respect of any permanent
protective works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and
renewing those works;

35.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work;

35.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, watch-persons and other persons whom it is reasonably necessary to
appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway property and
for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable, interference,
obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or failure of a
specified work;

35.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, need to be imposed by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work or
from the substitution or diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

35.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work,

provided that any costs incurred arising from an act or omission of Network
Rail, will not be paid by the undertaker.

36

36.1

In this paragraph—

      “ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph (2), electromagnetic
interference with Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the
authorised development where such interference is of a level which adversely
affects the safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and           “
Network Rail’s apparatus ” means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or
equipment (whether or not modified or installed as part of the authorised
development) which are owned or used by Network Rail for the purpose of
transmitting or receiving electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic,
telephonic, electric, electronic or other like means of signalling or other
communications.

36.2

This paragraph 36 applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph 30(1) for the relevant part of the
authorised development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been
given notice in writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to
make such change).

36.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take all measures necessary to
prevent EMI risks and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

36.4

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph (3)—

36.4.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter continue to consult with Network Rail (both before and
after formal submission of plans under paragraph 30(1)) in order to identify
all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate them;

36.4.b

the undertaker must provide an EMI interface study (such study to include
consideration of transferred voltage potentials, radiated interference to
signalling equipment and compliance with the Control of Electromagnetic field
at Work Regulations 2016 and British Standard EN 50122 as applicable) for
approval, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed but may be
provided subject to reasonable conditions;

36.4.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a); and

36.4.d

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a).

36.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but
Network Rail may, in its reasonable discretion, select the means of prevention
and the method of their execution, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph 30(1) has effect subject to this sub-paragraph.

36.6

The undertaker shall use reasonable endeavours not to allow the use or
operation of the authorised development in a manner that causes EMI and which
introduces an intolerable risk to the operation of the railway or the safety
of the track workers (such intolerable risk would include introducing exposure
to electric and magnetic fields in excess of the requirements of the Control
of Electromagnetic field at Work Regulations 2016, unacceptable transferred
voltage potentials and interference impacting the safe operation of the
signalling equipment), until measures have been taken in accordance with this
paragraph to reduce the risk to tolerable levels of EMI.

36.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

36.7.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

36.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI; and

36.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI.

36.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs (5) or (6)—

36.8.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

36.8.b

Any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with paragraph 31.

36.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
40(1) applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses suffered
by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph
(including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of proposals,
approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and facilitating access
to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI to which sub-
paragraph (6) applies.

36.10

For the purpose of paragraph 35(a) any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph shall be deemed to be protective works referred
to in that paragraph.

36.11

In relation to any dispute arising under this paragraph the reference in
article 52 (arbitration) to the Secretary of State shall be read as a
reference to the President of the Institution of Engineering and Technology.

37

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as not
adversely to affect railway property.

38

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

39

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be repaid by
the undertaker to Network Rail upon the receipt of a VAT invoice.

40

40.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable and proper costs,
charges, damages and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this
Schedule (subject to the provisions of this paragraph) which may be occasioned
to or reasonably incurred by Network Rail by reason of—

40.1.a

the construction, maintenance or operation of a specified work or the failure
of such a work; or

40.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work;

40.1.c

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or any person in its employ
or of its contractors or others whilst accessing to or egressing from the
authorised development; or

40.1.d

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to,
railway property or any such interference or obstruction or delay to the
operation of the railway as a result of access to or egress from the
authorised development by the undertaker or any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others; or

40.1.e

in respect of costs incurred by Network Rail in complying with any railway
operational procedures or obtaining any regulatory consents which procedures
are required to be followed or consents obtained to facilitate the carrying
out or operation of the authorised development; and the undertaker must
indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and against all claims and
demands arising out of or in connection with a specified work or any such
failure, act or omission: and the fact that any act or thing may have been
done by Network Rail on behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with plans
approved by the engineer or in accordance with any requirement of the engineer
or under the engineer’s supervision shall not (if it was done without
negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any person in its employ or of
its contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker from any liability under the
provisions of this sub-paragraph.

40.2

Network Rail must—

40.2.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such sums referred to in
sub-paragraph (1) as soon as reasonably possible after Network Rail become
aware of the same

40.2.b

not make any payment without the prior consent of the undertaker;

40.2.c

take all reasonable steps to mitigate any liabilities; and

40.2.d

keep the undertaker informed and have regard to the undertaker’s
representations in relation to any such sums referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

40.3

In no circumstances is the undertaker liable to Network Rail under sub-
paragraph (1) for any indirect or consequential loss or loss of profits, save
that the sums payable by the undertaker under that sub-paragraph shall, if
relevant, include a sum equivalent to the relevant costs in circumstances
where Network Rail is liable to make payment of the relevant costs pursuant to
the terms of an agreement between Network Rail and a train operator, and
Network Rail shall use reasonable endeavours in advance of any such liability
occurring to assist the undertaker in obtaining copies of any agreements with
train operators which may be relevant the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) and
identifying the basis of calculation of such relevant costs.

40.4

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the neglect or default of Network Rail, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

40.5

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the amount, timing or method of payment of the relevant
costs in respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to
each train operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under
sub-paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

40.6

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
is, in the event of default, enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub‑paragraph (4).

40.7

In this paragraph—

      “ the relevant costs ” means the costs, direct losses and expenses
(including loss of revenue) reasonably incurred by a train operator as a
consequence of any specified work including but not limited to any restriction
of the use of Network Rail’s railway network as a result of the construction,
maintenance or failure of a specified work or any such act or omission as
mentioned in subparagraph (1); and           “ train operator ” means any
person who is authorised to act as the operator of a train by a licence under
section 8 of the Railways Act 1993.

41

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Part of this Schedule (including the amount of
the relevant costs mentioned in paragraph 40) and with such information as may
reasonably enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any such
estimate or claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part of this Schedule
(including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

42

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part there
must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed that is
attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by Network
Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was taken or
entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by the
undertaker under this Part or increasing the sums so payable.

43

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

43.a

any railway property shown on the works plan and land plan and described in
the book of reference;

43.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

43.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

44

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I of the Railways Act
1993.

45

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 7 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order) of this Order and
any such notice must be given no later than 14 days before any such
application is made and must describe or give (as appropriate)—

45.a

the nature of the application to be made;

45.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

45.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

46

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans
submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with
article 48 (certification of plans etc.) are certified by the Secretary of
State, provide a set of those plans to Network Rail in an electronic format
specified by Network Rail.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NORTHERN POWERGRID

47

For the protection of Northern Powergrid the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Northern
Powergrid.

48

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991;           “
alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Northern Powergrid to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less
efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means existing electric
lines or electrical plant (as defined in the Electricity Act 1989), belonging
to or maintained by Northern Powergrid within the Order limits and includes
any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will
give access to apparatus;           “ authorised works ” means so much of the
works authorised by this Order, which do not form NPG Works or NGN Works which
affect existing Northern Powergrid’s apparatus within the Order limits; “
functions ” includes powers and duties;           “in”, in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;           “ plan
” includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements,
programmes, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary
properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be executed and shall
include measures proposed by the undertaker to ensure the grant of sufficient
land or rights in land necessary to mitigate the impacts of the works on
Northern Powergrid’s undertaking; and           “ Northern Powergrid ” means
Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) PLC (Company Number 04112320) whose registered
address is Lloyds Court, 78 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 6AF.

49

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Northern Powergrid are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

50

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker shall not acquire any
apparatus, or override any easement or other interest of Northern Powergrid
otherwise than by agreement with Northern Powergrid, such agreement not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

51

51.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over
which access to any apparatus is enjoyed or requires that Northern Powergrid’s
apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be removed under
this Part of this Schedule, and any right of Northern Powergrid to maintain
that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it must not be extinguished,
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation, and
access to it has been provided pursuant to a completed easement for a tenure
no less than exists to the apparatus being relocated or diverted, all to the
reasonable satisfaction of Northern Powergrid in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (2) to (7).

51.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Northern Powergrid 42 days’ advance written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed
position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in
that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred
by this Order Northern Powergrid reasonably needs to remove any of its
apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to
Northern Powergrid the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker within the Order limits
and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

51.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, Northern Powergrid must, on receipt of a written notice to that
effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably practicable and at the cost
of the undertaker (subject to prior approval by the undertaker of its estimate
of costs of doing so) use reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for
Northern Powergrid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless—

51.3.a

the undertaker has first used reasonable endeavours to acquire the relevant
land, rights and/or interests and provided reasonable evidence of the same to
Northern Powergrid in accordance with the measures set out in the plan (in
default of agreement, the reasonableness of any such measures to be determined
through arbitration under article 52 (arbitration)); and

51.3.b

the undertaker and Northern Powergrid agree (or in default of agreement, it is
determined through arbitration under article 52 (arbitration)) that the
promotion of compulsory purchase powers by the undertaker would be
significantly more onerous than the exercise of Northern Powergrid’s own
compulsory powers.

51.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker within
the order limits under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such
manner and in such line or situation as may be agreed between Northern
Powergrid and the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration
in accordance with article 52 (arbitration).

51.5

Northern Powergrid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 52 (arbitration), and after the grant to Northern Powergrid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

52

52.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to Northern Powergrid facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and Northern Powergrid or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 52 (arbitration).

52.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Northern Powergrid than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms
and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to Northern Powergrid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

53

53.1

Not less than 48 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
within 15m of any above ground apparatus and / or to a depth of between 0.4m
below ground level of apparatus (including conducting any activities whether
intentionally or unintentionally, through for example ground or machinery
collapse, which may affect Northern Powergrid’s apparatus or encroach on
safety distances to live equipment) or will or may affect, any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
51(2), the undertaker must submit to Northern Powergrid a plan, section and
description of the works to be executed.

53.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
Northern Powergrid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Northern Powergrid is entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

53.3

Any requirements made by Northern Powergrid under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 42 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub- paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

53.4

If Northern Powergrid in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in consequence
of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of
any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
paragraphs 47 to 52 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had been required
by the undertaker under paragraph (2).

53.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 35 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

53.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Northern Powergrid notice as soon
as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and description of those
works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-
paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

54

54.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Northern Powergrid all reasonable and proper expenses costs or
charges incurred by Northern Powergrid—

54.1.a

in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection
of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be
required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to
in paragraph 51(2) including—

54.1.a.i

any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with
the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such
apparatus including without limitation in the event that it is agreed Northern
Powergrid elects to use compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary
rights under paragraph 51(3) all costs reasonably incurred as a result of such
action;

54.1.a.ii

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

54.1.a.iii

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

54.1.a.iv

the approval of plans;

54.1.a.v

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

54.1.a.vi

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule); and

54.1.b

in assessing and preparing a design for its apparatus to address and
accommodate the proposals of the undertaker whether or not the undertaker
proceeds to implement those proposals or alternative or none at all,

provided that if it so prefers Northern Powergrid may abandon apparatus that
the undertaker does not seek to remove in accordance with paragraph 51(1)
having first decommissioned such apparatus.

54.2

There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal and for the avoidance of doubt, if
the apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule has
nil value, no sum will be deducted from the amount payable under sub-paragraph
(1) if in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

54.2.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

54.2.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 52 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Northern Powergrid by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess save where it is not
possible on account of project time limits and/or supply issues to obtain the
existing type of operations, capacity, dimensions or place at the existing
depth in which case full costs shall be borne by the undertaker.

54.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2)—

54.3.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus where such extension is required in
consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph
51(2); and

54.3.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

54.4

Where any payment falls due pursuant to paragraph 54 (1), NPG shall—

54.4.i

provide an itemised invoice or reasonable expenses claim to the Undertaker;
and

54.4.ii

provide ‘reminder letters’ to the undertaker for payment to be made within the
fifty days on the following days after the invoice or reasonable expenses
claim to the undertaker—

54.4.ii.aa

15 days (‘reminder letter 1’)

54.4.ii.bb

29 days (‘reminder letter 2’)

54.4.ii.cc

43 days (‘reminder letter 3’)

54.4.iii

commence debt proceedings to recover any unpaid itemised invoice or reasonable
expenses claim on the fiftieth day of receipt of the same where payment has
not been made.

55

55.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any of the works referred to in in paragraph 51(2), or in
consequence of the, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised works by
or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of the
undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by it) in the course of
carrying out such works, including without limitation works carried out by the
undertaker under this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these
works any damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair
of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of those works) or property of Northern Powergrid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided by Northern Powergrid, or Northern
Powergrid becomes liable to pay any amount to a third party as a consequence
of any default, negligence or omission by the undertaker in carrying out the
authorised works, the undertaker must—

55.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Northern Powergrid in making good
such damage or restoring the supply; and

55.1.b

reimburse Northern Powergrid for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty,
proceedings, claims or costs incurred by or recovered from Northern Powergrid,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or Northern
Powergrid becoming liable to any third party.

55.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Northern Powergrid, its officers, employees,
servants, contractors or agents.

55.3

Northern Powergrid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

55.4

Northern Powergrid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or
in part and to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to
which this paragraph applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker,
Northern Powergrid must provide an explanation of how the claim has been
minimised or details to substantiate any cost or compensation claimed pursuant
to sub-paragraph (1). The undertaker shall only be liable under this paragraph
for claims reasonably incurred by Northern Powergrid.

56

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Northern
Powergrid in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

57

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Northern Powergrid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 51 or otherwise or Northern Powergrid makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 53,
the undertaker shall use its reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the
execution of the works in the interests of safety and the need to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of Northern Powergrid’s undertaking taking into
account the undertaker’s desire for the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised development and the undertaker and Northern Powergrid shall use
reasonable endeavours to co-operate with each other for those purposes.

58

If in consequence of an agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 56 or
the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus or alternative
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker shall provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus or alternative apparatus as will
enable Northern Powergrid to maintain or use the said apparatus no less
effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

59

The plans submitted to Northern Powergrid by the undertaker pursuant to this
Part of the Schedule must be sent to Northern Powergrid at
property@northernpowergrid.com or such other address as Northern Powergrid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

60

Where practicable, the undertaker and Northern Powergrid will make reasonable
efforts to liaise and co-operate in respect of information that is relevant to
the safe and efficient construction operation and maintenance of the
authorised development. Such liaison shall be carried out where any works are—

60.a

within 15m of any above ground apparatus and / or;

60.b

are to a depth of between 0 – 4m below ground level of apparatus.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL HIGHWAYS LIMITED

###### Application etc.,

61

61.1

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule apply for the protection of
National Highways and have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and National Highways.

61.2

Except where expressly amended by the Order the operation of the powers and
duties of National Highways or the Secretary of State under the 1980 Act, the
1984 Act, the 1991 Act, the Transport Act 2000, or Town and Country Planning
(General Permitted Development) (England) Order 2015 shall continue to apply
in respect of the exercise of all National Highways’ statutory functions.

###### Interpretation

62

62.1

Where the terms defined in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order are
inconsistent with subparagraph (2) the latter prevail.

62.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ as built information ” means one electronic copy of the following
information— as constructed drawings in both PDF and AutoCAD DWG formats for
anything designed by the undertaker; in compliance with Interim Advice Note
184 or any successor document; list of suppliers and materials used, as well
as any relevant test results and CCTV surveys (if required to comply with DMRB
standards); product data sheets and technical specifications for all materials
used; as constructed information for any utilities discovered or moved during
the works; method statements for the works carried out; in relation to road
lighting, signs, and traffic signals any information required by Series 1300
and 1400 of the Specification for Highway Works or any replacement or
modification of it; organisation and methods manuals for all products used; as
constructed programme; test results and records as required by the highway
detailed design information and during construction phase of the project; a
stage 3 road safety audit subject to any exceptions to the road safety audit
standard as agreed by the undertaker and National Highways; the health and
safety file; and such other information as is required by National Highways to
be used to update all relevant databases and to ensure compliance with
National Highway’s Asset Data Management Manual as is in operation at the
relevant time; “ the bond sum ” means the sum equal to 200% of the cost of the
carrying out the specified works (to include all costs plus any commuted sum)
or such other sum agreed between the undertaker and National Highways; “ the
cash surety ” means the sum agreed between the undertaker and National
Highways; “ commuted sum ” means such sum calculated in accordance with FS
Guidance S278 Commuted Lump Sum Calculation Method dated 18 January 2010 or
any successor guidance, for which an estimate is to be provided prior to the
commencement of the specified works, to be used to fund the future cost of
maintaining the specified works; “ condition survey ” means a survey of the
condition of National Highways structures and assets within the Order limits
that may be affected by the specified works; “ contractor ” means any
contractor or subcontractor appointed by the undertaker to carry out the
specified works; “ defects period ” means the period from the date of the
provisional certificate to the date of the final certificate which shall be no
less than 12 months from the date of the provisional certificate; “
reconductoring detailed design information ” means such of the following
drawings specifications and calculations as are relevant to the development—
site clearance details; boundary, environmental and mitigation fencing; road
restraints systems and supporting road restraint risk appraisal process
assessment; drainage and ducting as required by DMRB CD 535 Drainage asset
data and risk management and DMRB CS551 Drainage Surveys standards for
Highways; earthworks including supporting geotechnical assessments required by
DMRB CD622 Managing geotechnical risk and any required strengthened earthworks
appraisal form certification; landscaping; traffic signs and road markings;
stage 1 and stage 2 road safety audits and exceptions agreed; topographical
survey; maintenance and repair strategy in accordance with DMRB GD304
Designing health and safety into maintenance or any replacement or
modification of it; health and safety information including any asbestos
survey required by GG105 or any successor document; and other such information
that may be required by National Highways to be used to inform the detailed
design of the specified works; “ highway detailed design information ” means
such of the following drawings specifications and calculations as are relevant
to the development— site clearance details; boundary, environmental and
mitigation fencing; road restraints systems and supporting road restraint risk
appraisal process assessment; drainage and ducting as required by DMRB CD 535
Drainage asset data and risk management and DMRB CS551 Drainage surveys –
standards for Highways ; earthworks including supporting geotechnical
assessments required by DMRB CD622 Managing geotechnical risk and any required
strengthened earthworks appraisal form certification; pavement, pavement
foundations, kerbs, footways and paved areas; traffic signs and road markings;
traffic signal equipment and associated signal phasing and timing detail; road
lighting (including columns and brackets); regime of California Bearing Ratio
testing; electrical work for road lighting, traffic signs and signals;
motorway communications as required by DMRB; highway structures and any
required structural approval in principle; landscaping; proposed departures
from DMRB standards; walking, cycling and horse riding assessment and review
report; stage 1 and stage 2 road safety audits and exceptions agreed;
utilities diversions; topographical survey; maintenance and repair strategy in
accordance with DMRB GD304 Designing health and safety into maintenance or any
replacement or modification of it; health and safety information including any
asbestos survey required by GG105 or any successor document; and other such
information that may be required by National Highways to be used to inform the
detailed design of the specified works; “ DBFO contract ” means the contract
between National Highways and the highway operations and maintenance
contractor for the maintenance and operation of parts of the strategic road
network which are within the Order Limits or any successor or replacement
contract that may be current at the relevant time; “ DMRB ” means the Design
Manual for Roads and Bridges or any replacement or modification of it; “ final
certificate ” means the certificate relating to those aspects of the specified
works that have resulted in any alteration to the strategic road network to be
issued by National Highways pursuant to paragraph  74 ; “ the health and
safety file ” means the file or other permanent record containing the relevant
health and safety information for the authorised development required by the
Construction Design and Management Regulations 2015 (or such updated or
revised regulations as may come into force from time to time); “ highway
operations and maintenance contractor ” means the contractor appointed by
National Highways under the DBFO contract; “ nominated persons ” means the
undertaker’s representatives or the contractor’s representatives on site
during the carrying out of the specified works as notified to National
Highways from time to time; “ programme of works ” means a document setting
out the sequence and timetabling of the specified works; “ provisional
certificate ” means the certificate of provisional completion relating to
those aspects of the specified works that have resulted in any alteration to
the strategic road network to be issued by National Highways in accordance
with paragraph  70  when it considers the specified works are substantially
complete and may be opened for traffic; “ road safety audit ” means an audit
carried out in accordance with the road safety audit standard; “ road safety
audit standard ” means DMRB Standard HD GG119 or any replacement or
modification of it; “ road space booking ” means road space bookings in
accordance with National Highways’ Asset Management Operational Requirements
(AMOR) including Network Occupancy Management System (NOMS) used to manage
road space bookings and network occupancy; “ Specification for Highways Works
” means the specification for highways works forming part of the manual of
contract documents for highway works published by National Highways and
setting out the requirements and approvals procedures for work, goods or
materials used in the construction, improvement or maintenance of the
strategic road network; “ specified works ” means so much of any work,
including highway works and signalisation, authorised by this Order including
any maintenance of that work, as is on, in, under or over the strategic road
network for which National Highways is the highway authority; “ strategic road
network ” means any part of the road network including trunk roads, special
roads or streets for which National Highways is the highway authority
including drainage infrastructure, street furniture, verges and vegetation and
all other land, apparatus and rights located in, on, over or under the
highway; “ utilities ” means any pipes wires cables or equipment belonging to
any person or body having power or consent to undertake street works under the
New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; and “ winter maintenance ” means
maintenance of the road surface to deal with snow and ice.

62.3

References to any standards, manuals, contracts, Regulations and Directives
including to specific standards forming part of the DMRB are, for the purposes
of this Part of this Schedule, to be construed as a reference to the same as
amended, substituted or replaced, and with such modifications as are required
in those circumstances.

###### General

63

In respect of any part of the strategic road network that is managed under a
DBFO contract both National Highways and the highway operations and
maintenance contractor shall have the benefit of this Part of Schedule 15 but
for the purposes of any approvals required under this Part of Schedule 15 the
undertaker shall liaise directly with National Highways.

64

Notwithstanding the limits of deviation permitted pursuant to article 5
(limits of deviation) of this Order, no works in carrying out, maintaining or
diverting the authorised development may be carried out on, under or over the
strategic road network at a distance within 5.5 metres vertically of the
lowest point of the ground unless with the express consent of National
Highways save in respect of any temporary oversailing equipment which falls
below the 5.5m height temporarily during construction, provided that such
equipment’s installed position is above 5.5m, where such express consent is
not required.

65

References to any standards, manuals, contracts, regulations and directives
including to specific standards forming part of the DMRB are, for the purposes
of this Part of this Schedule, to be construed as a reference to the same as
amended, substituted or replaced, and with such modifications as are required
in those circumstances.

###### Works outside the Order limits

66

If the undertaker proposes to carry out works to the strategic road network
that are outside of the Order Limits in connection with the authorised
development, the undertaker must enter into an agreement with National
Highways in respect of the carrying out of those works prior to the
commencement of those works.

###### Prior approvals and security

67

67.1

In respect of any specified works being at least 5.5 metres above the surface
of the strategic road network (including any temporary oversailing equipment
which falls below the 5.5m height temporarily during construction, provided
that such equipment’s installed position is above 5.5m), such works must not
commence until—

67.1.a

evidence that a stage 1 and stage 2 road safety audit has been carried out and
all recommendations raised by them or any exceptions are approved by National
Highways;

67.1.b

the programme of works has been approved by National Highways;

67.1.c

the reconductoring detailed design of the specified works comprising of the
following details, insofar as considered relevant by National Highways, has
been submitted to and approved by National Highways—

67.1.c.i

the detailed design information, including scaffolding to oversail the
strategic road network, incorporating all recommendations and any exceptions
approved by National Highways under sub-paragraph (a);

67.1.c.ii

details of the proposed road space bookings;

67.1.c.iii

the identity and suitability of the contractor and nominated persons;

67.1.c.iv

a process for stakeholder liaison, with key stakeholders to be identified and
agreed between National Highways and the undertaker;

67.1.c.v

information demonstrating that the walking, cycling and horse riding
assessment and review process undertaken by the undertaker in relation to the
specified works has been adhered to in accordance with DMRB GG142 – Designing
for walking, cycling and horse riding; and

67.1.d

where necessary, a scheme of traffic management has been submitted by the
undertaker and approved by National Highways such scheme to be capable of
amendment by agreement between the undertaker and National Highways from time
to time,

unless otherwise agreed by National Highways.

67.2

In respect of specified works save for those which fall under sub-paragraph
(1), such works must not commence until—

67.2.a

a stage 1 and stage 2 road safety audit has been carried out and all
recommendations raised by them or any exceptions are approved by National
Highways;

67.2.b

the programme of works has been approved by National Highways;

67.2.c

the detailed design of the specified works comprising of the following
details, insofar as considered relevant by National Highways, has been
submitted to and approved by National Highways—

67.2.c.i

the highway detailed design information, incorporating all recommendations and
any exceptions approved by National Highways under sub-paragraph (a);

67.2.c.ii

details of the proposed road space bookings;

67.2.c.iii

the identity and suitability of the contractor and nominated persons;

67.2.c.iv

a process for stakeholder liaison, with key stakeholders to be identified and
agreed between National Highways and the undertaker;

67.2.c.v

information demonstrating that the walking, cycling and horse riding
assessment and review process undertaken by the undertaker in relation to the
specified works has been adhered to in accordance with DMRB GG142 – Designing
for walking, cycling and horse riding; and

67.2.d

a scheme of traffic management has been submitted by the undertaker and
approved by National Highways such scheme to be capable of amendment by
agreement between the undertaker and National Highways from time to time;

67.2.e

stakeholder liaison has taken place in accordance with the process for such
liaison agreed between the undertaker and National Highways   under sub-
paragraph (c)(iv) above;

67.2.f

National Highways has approved the audit brief and CVs for all road safety
audits and exceptions to items raised in accordance with the road safety audit
standard;

67.2.g

the undertaker has agreed the estimate of the commuted sum with National
Highways;

67.2.h

the scope of all maintenance operations (routine inspections, incident
management, reactive and third party damage) to be carried out by the
undertaker during the construction of the specified works (which must include
winter maintenance) has been agreed in writing by National Highways;

67.2.i

the undertaker has procured to National Highways collateral warranties in a
form reasonably approved by National Highways from the contractor and designer
of the specified works in favour of National Highways to include covenants
requiring the contractor and designer to exercise all reasonable skill care
and diligence in designing and constructing the specified works, including in
the selection of materials, goods, equipment and plant; and

67.2.j

a condition survey and regime of monitoring of any National Highways assets or
structures that National Highways considers will be affected by the specified
works, has been agreed in writing by National Highways,

unless otherwise agreed by National Highways.

67.3

The undertaker must not exercise—

67.3.a

article 14 (temporary closure of streets, cycle tracks and public rights of
way);

67.3.b

article 19 (discharge of water);

67.3.c

article 20 (protective works to buildings);

67.3.d

article 21 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

67.3.e

article 45(2) (Traffic regulation) of this Order,

over any part of the strategic road network without the consent of National
Highways, and National Highways may in connection with any such exercise
require the undertaker to provide details of any proposed road space bookings
and/or submit a scheme of traffic management for National Highways’ approval.
The undertaker must provide 28 days’ notice of the exercise of Article 45(1)
(Traffic regulation) and National Highways may in connection with any such
exercise require the undertaker to provide details of any proposed road space
bookings and/or submit a scheme of traffic management for National Highways’
approval.

67.4

National Highways must prior to the commencement of the specified works or the
exercise of any power referenced in sub-paragraph (3) inform the undertaker of
the identity of the person who will act as a point of contact on behalf of
National Highways for consideration of the information required under sub-
paragraph (1), (2), (3) or (4).

67.5

Any approval of National Highways required under this paragraph—

67.5.a

must not be unreasonably withheld;

67.5.b

must be given in writing;

67.5.c

may be subject to any conditions as National Highways considers necessary;

67.5.d

in respect of any approval under sub-paragraph (1), must be given by the end
of the period of 28 days, beginning with the date on which any request for
approval has been made and if National Highways has not intimated disapproval
of those works and the grounds of disapproval within that period, the
undertaker may serve upon National Highways written notice requiring National
Highways to intimate approval or disapproval within a further period of 28
days beginning with the date upon which National Highways receives written
notice from the undertaker; and

67.5.e

in respect of any approval under sub-paragraph (2), shall be deemed to have
been refused if neither given nor refused within 56 days of receipt of the
information for approval or, where further particulars are requested by
National Highways within 56 days of receipt of the information to which the
request for further particulars relate.

67.6

Any change to the identity of the contractor and/or designer of the specified
works will be notified to National Highways immediately and details of their
suitability to deliver the specified works will be provided on request and in
respect of any specified works under sub-paragraph (2), collateral warranties
in a form agreed by National Highways will be provided.

67.7

Any change to the detailed design of the specified works must be approved by
National Highways in accordance with this paragraph.

###### Construction of the specified works

68

68.1

The undertaker must give National Highways 28 days’ notice in writing of the
date on which the specified works will start unless otherwise agreed by
National Highways.

68.2

The undertaker must comply with National Highways’ road space booking
procedures prior to and during the carrying out of the specified works and no
specified works for which a road space booking is required shall commence
without a road space booking having first been secured from National Highways.

68.3

The specified works must be carried out by the undertaker to the satisfaction
of National Highways in accordance with—

68.3.a

the relevant detailed design information and programme of works approved
pursuant to paragraph  67(1)  or  67(2)  as appropriate or as subsequently
varied by agreement between the undertaker and National Highways;

68.3.b

the DMRB, the Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works, including the
Specification for Highway Works, together with all other relevant standards as
required by National Highways to include, inter alia; all relevant interim
advice notes, the Traffic Signs Manual and the Traffic Signs Regulations and
General Directions 2016 save to the extent that exceptions from those
standards apply which have been approved by National Highways; and

68.3.c

all aspects of the Construction (Design and Management) Regulations 2015 or
any statutory amendment or variation of the same and in particular the
undertaker, as client, must ensure that all client duties (as defined in the
said regulations) are undertaken to the satisfaction of National Highways.

68.4

The undertaker must permit and must require the contractor to permit at all
reasonable times persons authorised by National Highways (whose identity must
have been previously notified to the undertaker by National Highways) to gain
access to the specified works for the purposes of inspection and supervision
of the specified works.

68.5

If any part of the specified works is constructed—

68.5.a

other than in accordance with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule;
or

68.5.b

in a way that causes damage to the strategic road network or any other land of
National Highways used for its undertaking,

National Highways acting properly and reasonably may by notice in writing
require the undertaker, at the undertaker’s own expense, to comply promptly
with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule or remedy any damage
notified to the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule, to the reasonable
satisfaction of National Highways.

68.6

If during the carrying out of the authorised development the undertaker or its
appointed contractors or agents causes damage to the strategic road network
then National Highways acting properly and reasonably may by notice in writing
require the undertaker, at its own expense, to remedy the damage.

68.7

If within 28 days on which a notice   under sub-paragraph (5) or sub-paragraph
(6)   is served on the undertaker (or in the event of there being, in the
opinion of National Highways, a danger to road users, within such lesser
period as National Highways may stipulate), the undertaker has failed to take
the steps required by that notice, National Highways may carry out the steps
required of the undertaker and may recover any expenditure incurred by
National Highways in so doing such sum to be payable within 30 days of demand.

68.8

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule prevents National Highways from carrying
out any work or taking any such action as it reasonably believes to be
necessary as a result of or in connection with the carrying out or maintenance
of the authorised development without prior notice to the undertaker in the
event of an emergency or to prevent the occurrence of danger to the public and
National Highways may recover any expenditure it reasonably incurs in so
doing.

68.9

In constructing the specified works, the undertaker must at its own expense
divert or protect all utilities and all agreed alterations and reinstatement
of highway over existing utilities must be constructed to the reasonable
satisfaction of National Highways.

68.10

During the construction of the specified works approved under paragraph  67(2)
, the undertaker must carry out all maintenance (including winter maintenance)
in accordance with the scope of maintenance operations agreed by National
Highways pursuant to paragraph  67(2)(h)  and the undertaker must carry out
such maintenance at its own cost.

68.11

The undertaker must notify National Highways if it fails to complete the
specified works in accordance with the agreed programme pursuant to sub-
paragraph  67(1)(b)  or  67(2)(b)  of this Part or suspends the carrying out
of any specified work beyond a reasonable period of time and National Highways
reserves the right to withdraw any road space booking granted to the
undertaker to ensure compliance with its network occupancy requirements.

###### Payments

69

69.1

The undertaker must pay to National Highways a sum equal to the whole of any
reasonable and proper costs and expenses which National Highways incurs
(including costs and expenses for using internal or external staff and costs
relating to any work which becomes abortive) in relation to the specified
works and in relation to any approvals sought under this Order, or otherwise
incurred under this Part, including—

69.1.a

the checking and approval of the information required under paragraph  67 ;

69.1.b

the supervision of the specified works;

69.1.c

the checking and approval of the information required to determine approvals
under this Order;

69.1.d

all costs in relation to the transfer of any land required for the specified
works; and

69.1.e

all legal and administrative costs and disbursements incurred by National
Highways in connection with the Order and sub-paragraphs (a)-(d); and

69.1.f

any value added tax which is payable by National Highways in respect of such
costs and expenses and for which it cannot obtain reinstatement from HM
Revenue and Customs,

together comprising “the NH costs”.

69.2

The undertaker must pay to National Highways upon demand and prior to such
costs being incurred the total costs that National Highways believe will be
properly and necessarily incurred by National Highways in undertaking any
statutory procedure or preparing and bringing into force any traffic
regulation order or orders necessary to carry out or for effectively
implementing the authorised development.

69.3

National Highways must provide the undertaker with a schedule showing its
estimate of the NH costs prior to the commencement of the specified works and
the undertaker must pay to National Highways the estimate of the NH costs
prior to commencing the specified works and in any event prior to National
Highways incurring any cost but the absence of such estimate will not inhibit
the commencement of the specified works by the undertaker.

69.4

If at any time after the payment referred to in sub-paragraph (3) has become
payable, National Highways reasonably believes that the NH costs will exceed
the estimated NH costs it may give notice to the undertaker of the amount that
it believes the NH costs will exceed the estimate of the NH costs (the excess)
and the undertaker must pay to National Highways within 30 days of the date of
the notice a sum equal to the excess.

69.5

National Highways must give the undertaker a final account of the NH costs
referred to in sub- paragraph (1) above within 91 days of the issue of the
provisional certificate issued pursuant to paragraph  70(4) .

69.6

Within 30 days of the issue of the final account—

69.6.a

if the final account shows a further sum as due to National Highways the
undertaker must pay to National Highways the sum shown due to it;

69.6.b

if the account shows that the payment or payments previously made by the
undertaker have exceeded the costs incurred by National Highways, National
Highways must refund the difference to the undertaker.

69.7

If any payment due under any of the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
is not made on or before the date on which it falls due the party from whom it
was due must at the same time as making the payment pay to the other party
interest at 3% above the Bank of England base lending rate from time to time
being in force for the period starting on the date upon which the payment fell
due and ending with the date of payment of the sum on which interest is
payable together with that interest.

###### Provisional Certificate

70

70.1

Following any closure or partial closure of any of the strategic road network
for the purposes of carrying out the specified works, National Highways will
carry out a site inspection to satisfy itself that the strategic road network
is, in its opinion, safe for traffic and the undertaker must comply with any
requirements of National Highways prior to reopening the strategic road
network.

70.2

As soon as the undertaker considers that the provisional certificate may be
properly issued it must apply to National Highways for the provisional
certificate.

70.3

Following an application for a provisional certificate, National Highways must
as soon as reasonably practicable—

70.3.a

inspect the specified works; and

70.3.b

provide the undertaker with a written list of works that are required for the
provisional certificate to be issued or confirmation that no further works are
required for this purpose.

70.4

When—

70.4.a

a stage 3 road safety audit for the specified works has been carried out and
all recommendations raised including remedial works have (subject to any
exceptions agreed) been approved by National Highways;

70.4.b

the specified works incorporating the approved remedial works under sub-
paragraph (4)(a) and any further works notified to the undertaker pursuant to
sub-paragraph (3)(b) have been completed to the satisfaction of National
Highways;

70.4.c

the as built information has been provided to National Highways; and

70.4.d

in respect of any specified works captured by paragraph  67(2) , the
undertaker has paid the commuted sum to National Highways,

National Highways must issue the provisional certificate.

70.5

On the issue of the provisional certificate the bond sum (if applicable) shall
be reduced to 20% of the total bond sum save insofar as any claim or claims
have been made against the bond before that date in which case National
Highways will retain a sufficient sum to ensure it does not have to meet any
costs for or arising from the specified works.

70.6

The undertaker must submit a stage 4 road safety audit as required by and in
line with the timescales stipulated in the road safety audit standard. The
undertaker must comply with the findings of the stage 4 road safety audit and
must pay all costs of and incidental to such and provide updated as-built
information to National Highways.

###### Opening

71

The undertaker must notify National Highways not less than 56 days in advance
of the intended date of opening to the public of the strategic road network
and the undertaker must notify National Highways of the actual date the
strategic road network will be opened to the public within 14 days of that
date.

###### Final condition survey

72

72.1

In respect of any specified works approved under paragraph  67(1)  or  67(2) —

72.2

The undertaker must, as soon as reasonably practicable after making its
application for a provisional certificate pursuant to paragraph  70(2) ,
arrange for the highways structures and assets that were the subject of the
condition survey to be re-surveyed and must submit the re-survey to National
Highways for its approval. The re-survey will include a renewed geotechnical
assessment required by DMRB CD622 if the specified works include any works
beneath the strategic road network.

72.3

If the re-survey carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph  (1)  indicates that
any damage has been caused to a structure or asset, the undertaker must submit
a scheme for remedial works in writing to National Highways for its approval
in writing and the undertaker must carry out the remedial works at its own
cost and in accordance with the scheme submitted.

72.4

If the undertaker fails to carry out the remedial work in accordance with the
approved scheme, National Highways may carry out the steps required of the
undertaker and may recover any expenditure it reasonably incurs in so doing.

72.5

National Highways may, at its discretion, at the same time as giving its
approval to the re- surveys pursuant to sub-paragraph  (1)  give notice in
writing that National Highways will remedy any damage identified in the re-
surveys and National Highways may recover any expenditure it reasonably incurs
in so doing.

72.6

The undertaker must make available to National Highways upon request copies of
any survey or inspection reports produced pursuant to any inspection or survey
of any specified work following its completion that the undertaker may from
time to time carry out.

###### Defects Period

73

73.1

In respect of any specified works approved under paragraph  67(2) —

73.2

The undertaker must at its own expense remedy any defects in the strategic
road network as are reasonably required by National Highways to be remedied
during the defects period. All identified defects must be remedied in
accordance with the following timescales—

73.2.a

in respect of matters of urgency, within 24 hours of receiving notification
for the same (urgency to be determined at the absolute discretion of National
Highways);

73.2.b

in respect of matters which National Highways considers to be serious defects
or faults, within 14 days of receiving notification of the same; and

73.2.c

in respect of all other defects notified to the undertaker, within 4 weeks of
receiving notification of the same.

73.3

Following the expiry of the defects period National Highways has
responsibility for routine maintenance of the strategic road network save for
any soft landscaping works which must be established and which must thereafter
be maintained for a period of 3 years by and at the expense of the undertaker.

###### Final Certificate

74

74.1

In respect of any specified works approved under paragraph  67(2) —

74.1.a

the undertaker must apply to National Highways for the final certificate no
sooner than 12 months from the date of the provisional certificate.

74.1.b

following receipt of the application for the final certificate, National
Highways must as soon as reasonably practicable—

74.1.b.i

inspect the strategic road network; and

74.1.b.ii

provide the undertaker with a written list of any further works required to
remedy or make good any defect or damage in the strategic road network or
confirmation that no such works are required for this purpose.

74.1.c

The undertaker must carry out such works notified to it pursuant to sub-
paragraph  67(2) .

74.1.d

When National Highways is satisfied that—

74.1.d.i

any defects or damage arising from defects during the defects period and any
defects notified to the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph  67(2)  and any
remedial works required as a result of the stage 4 road safety audit have been
made good to the satisfaction of National Highways; and

74.1.d.ii

the NH costs have been paid to National Highways in full;

74.1.d.iii

National Highways must issue the final certificate after which the bond shall
be released in full.

74.1.e

The undertaker must pay to National Highways within 30 days of demand the
costs reasonably incurred by National Highways in identifying the defects and
supervising and inspecting the undertaker’s work to remedy the defects that it
is required to remedy pursuant to these provisions.

74.2

In respect of any specified works approved under paragraph  67(1) , the
undertaker may apply for a final certificate at any time following issue of
the provisional certificate, whereupon National Highways must issue a final
certificate forthwith.

###### Security

75

75.1

In respect of any specified works approved under paragraph  67(2) , the works
must not commence until—

75.2

the undertaker procures that the specified works are secured by a bond from a
bondsman first approved by National Highways in the agreed form between the
undertaker and National Highways to indemnify National Highways against all
losses, damages, costs or expenses arising from any breach of any one or more
of the obligations of the undertaker in respect of the exercise of the powers
under this Order and the specified works under the provisions of this Part of
this Schedule provided that the maximum liability of the bond must not exceed
the bond sum; and

75.3

the undertaker has provided the cash surety which may be utilised by National
Highways in the event of the undertaker failing to meet its obligations to
make payments under paragraph  69  or to carry out works the need for which
arises from a breach of one or more of the obligations of the undertaker under
the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Insurance

76

Prior to the commencement of the specified works the undertaker must effect
public liability insurance with an insurer in the minimum sum of
£10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) in respect of any one claim against any
legal liability for damage loss or injury to any property or any person as a
direct result of the execution of specified works or use of the strategic road
network by the undertaker.

###### Indemnity

77

The undertaker fully indemnifies National Highways from and against all costs,
claims, expenses, damages, losses and liabilities suffered by National
Highways directly arising from the construction, maintenance or use of the
specified works or exercise of or failure to exercise any power under this
Order within 30 days of demand save for any loss arising out of or in
consequence of any negligent act or default of National Highways.

###### Maintenance of the specified works

78

78.1

The undertaker must, prior to the commencement of any works of maintenance to
the specified works, give National Highways 28 days’ notice in writing of the
date on which those works will start unless otherwise agreed by National
Highways, acting reasonably.

78.2

If, for the purposes of maintaining the specified works, the undertaker needs
to occupy any road space, the undertaker must comply with National Highways’
road space booking requirements and no maintenance of the specified works for
which a road space booking is required shall commence without a road space
booking having first been secured (save for in the event of an emergency
situation).

78.3

The undertaker must comply with any requirements that National Highways may
notify to the undertaker, such requirements to be notified to the undertaker
not less than 7 days’ in advance of the planned commencement date of the
maintenance works.

78.4

The provisions of paragraph  71  shall apply to the opening of any part of the
strategic road network following occupation of any road space under this
paragraph.

###### Land

79

79.1

Following the issue of a final certificate pursuant to paragraph  74 ,
National Highways may serve notice on the undertaker that it wishes to take a
freehold transfer of land within the extent of strategic road network boundary
which is not in the ownership of National Highways but has been acquired by
the undertaker for the purposes of carrying out the specified works approved
under paragraph  67(2) .

79.2

If the undertaker receives notice under sub-paragraph (1) then the undertaker
must effect a freehold transfer of the land which is the subject of the notice
and complete such transfer as soon as reasonably practicable at no cost to
National Highways.

79.3

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order—

79.3.a

acquire freehold land forming part of; and/or

79.3.b

seek to impose or extinguish any restrictive covenants over

any part of the strategic road network or extinguish any existing rights of
National Highways in respect of land owned by National Highways used for its
undertaking and any third party property used for National Highways’
undertaking, except with the consent of National Highways by written request
to  legalservicesinbox@nationalhighways.co.uk .

79.4

Where any land or interest is proposed to be acquired for the benefit of
National Highways, the undertaker must, unless otherwise agreed by National
Highways, exercise article 22 (compulsory acquisition of land) and article 25
(compulsory acquisition of rights) as applied by articles 32 (modification of
Part 1 of the 1965 Act) and article 33 (application of the 1981 Act) of this
Order to directly vest in National Highways any such land or interest.

###### Arbitration

80

Any dispute under this Part of this Schedule shall be settled by arbitration
in accordance with article 52 (arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GAS TRANSMISSION PLC AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

81

81.1

For the protection of National Gas Transmission PLC (“ NGT ”) as referred to
in this Part of this Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and NGT.

81.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and NGT, where the benefit of this Order is transferred
or granted to another person under article 7 (Consent to transfer benefit of
the Order)—

81.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in subparagraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between NGT and the transferee or grantee (as the case may be);
and

81.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to NGT on or before the
date of that transfer or grant.

81.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to NGT (but without prejudice to  91(4)(b) .

###### Interpretation

82

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991;           “
acceptable credit provider ” means a bank or financial institution with a
credit rating that is not lower than: (i) “A-” if the rating is assigned by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group or Fitch Ratings; and “A3” if the rating is
assigned by Moody’s Investors Services Inc.;           “ acceptable insurance
” means general third party liability insurance effected and maintained by the
undertaker with a combined property damage and bodily injury limit of
indemnity of not less than £50,000,000 (fifty million pounds) per occurrence
or series of occurrences arising out of one event. Such insurance shall be
maintained (a) during the construction period of the authorised works; and (b)
after the construction period of the authorised works in respect of any use
and maintenance of the authorised development by or on behalf of the
undertaker which constitute specified works and arranged with an insurer whose
security/credit rating meets the same requirements as an “acceptable credit
provider”, such insurance shall include (without limitation)—         a waiver
of subrogation and an indemnity to principal clause in favour of NGT; or
pollution liability for third party property damage and third party bodily
damage arising from any pollution/contamination event with a (sub)limit of
indemnity of not less than £10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per occurrence
or series of occurrences arising out of one event or £20,000,000.00 (twenty
million pounds) in aggregate;                 “ acceptable security ” means
either—         evidence provided to NGT’s reasonable satisfaction that the
undertaker has a tangible net worth of not less than £100,000,000.00 (One
Hundred Million Pounds) (or an equivalent financial measure); or
bank bond or letter of credit from an acceptable credit provider in favour of
NGT to cover the undertaker’s liability to NGT for an amount of not less than
£10,000,000.00 (ten million pounds) per asset per event up to a total
liability cap of £50,000,000.00 (fifty million pounds) (in a form reasonably
satisfactory to NGT);                 “ alternative apparatus ” means
appropriate alternative apparatus to the reasonable satisfaction of NGT to
enable NGT to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient
than previously;           “ apparatus ” means any mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by NGT for the purposes of gas supply
together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed
pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of NGT for the
purposes of transmission, distribution and/or supply and includes any
structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give
access to apparatus;           “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is
given to the term “authorised development” in article 2(1) of this Order and
includes any associated development authorised by the Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“commence” and “commencement” in this Part of this Schedule shall include any
below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and
erection of construction plant and equipment;           “ deed of consent ”
means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of
grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to
secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule;           “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by NGT (such approval not
to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if
any) for a ground subsidence event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ”
means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus
which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored,
the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
shall require the undertaker to submit for NGT’s approval a ground mitigation
scheme;           “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence
identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring
scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme
as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;           “in” in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such
land;           “maintain” and “maintenance” shall include the ability and
right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative
apparatus of NGT: construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus;           “ NGT ” means National Gas Transmission PLC (Company
Number 02006000) whose registered office is at National Grid House Warwick
Technology Park, Gallows Hill, Warwick, CV34 6DA or any successor as a gas
transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;           “
Network Code ” means the network code prepared by NGT pursuant to Standard
Special Condition A11(3) of its Gas Transporter’s Licence, which incorporates
the Uniform Network Code, as defined in Standard Special Condition A11(6) of
NGT’s Gas Transporter’s Licence, as both documents are amended from time to
time;           “ Network Code Claims ” means—         any claim made against
NGT by any person or loss suffered by NGT under the Network Code arising out
of any failure by NGT to make gas available for off take at, or a failure to
accept gas tendered for delivery from, any entry point to or exit point from
the gas national transmission system as a result of the authorised works; or
any costs and/or expenses incurred by NGT as a result of it taking action
(including purchase or buy back of capacity) for the purpose of managing
constraint or potential constraint on the gas national transmission system
which has arisen as a direct result of the authorised works;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the specified works to be executed;           “ parent company ”
means a parent company of the undertaker acceptable to and which shall have
been approved by NGT acting reasonably;           “ specified works ” means
any of the authorised works which—         will or may be situated over, or
within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  87(2)  or
otherwise; and/or           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
87(2)  or otherwise; and/or           includes any of the activities that are
referred to in paragraph 8 of T/SP/SSW/22 (NGT’s policies for safe working in
proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of
National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation
requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW/22) to the extent that such activities
may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph  87(2)  or otherwise.
“ undertaker ” means the undertaker as defined in article 2(1) of this Order;

###### On Street Apparatus

83

Except for paragraphs  84  (apparatus of NGT in affected streets),  89
(retained apparatus: protection),  90  (expenses) and  91  (indemnity) of this
Schedule which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers
under the Order affecting the rights and apparatus of NGT, the other
provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and NGT are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of NGT in affected streets

84

84.1

Where any street is permanently stopped up under any article of this Order, if
NGT has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street NGT has the
same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the
stopping up and the undertaker must grant to NGT, or procure the granting to
NGT of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to NGT in respect of such
apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street or
highway but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or
NGT to require the removal of that apparatus or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works.

84.2

Notwithstanding the temporary closure or diversion of any highway under the
powers of article 14 (temporary closure of streets, cycle tracks and public
rights of way), NGT is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access
across any such closed highway and to execute and do all such works and things
in, upon or under any such highway as are reasonably necessary to carry out at
the time of the temporary closure to enable it to maintain any apparatus which
at the time of the closure or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

85

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus without the written consent of
NGT.

###### Acquisition of land

86

86.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not (a)
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land or apparatus
or (b) appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any
easement, other interest or right and/or apparatus of NGT otherwise than by
agreement.

86.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the specified works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between NGT and the undertaker) that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of NGT or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between NGT and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as NGT reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between NGT and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to NGT unless otherwise agreed by NGT, and it will be the responsibility of
the undertaker to procure and/or secure the consent and entering into of such
deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land
at that time who are affected by such authorised works.

86.3

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between NGT and the undertaker the
undertaker and NGT agree that where there is any inconsistency or duplication
between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule relating to the
relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including but not limited to the
payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation and/or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by NGT and/or other enactments
relied upon by NGT as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then
the provisions in this Schedule shall prevail.

86.4

Any agreement or consent granted by NGT under paragraph  89  or any other
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to constitute
agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

87

87.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of NGT to maintain that apparatus in that land
must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, and
is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of NGT in accordance with sub-
paragraph (2) to (5).

87.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to NGT
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work
proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order NGT reasonably needs to remove
any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3),
secure any necessary consents for the alternative apparatus and afford to NGT
to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph  88(1) ) the necessary
facilities and rights—

87.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

87.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

87.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, NGT may in its sole discretion, on
receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances to assist the undertaker to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation shall not
extend to the requirement for NGT to use its compulsory purchase powers to
this end unless it elects to so do.

87.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between NGT and the undertaker
acting reasonably.

87.5

NGT must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement having been entered
into between the parties and the grant to NGT of any such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker
to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

87.6

The provisions of this paragraph  87  only apply to the extent that the
apparatus to be removed by the undertaker forms part of NGT’s undertaking and
has not already been abandoned or decommissioned by NGT and any existing
rights in respect of the abandoned or decommissioned apparatus have been
surrendered.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

88

88.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for NGT facilities and rights in land for the
construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be
granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker
acting reasonably and NGT and must be no less favourable on the whole to NGT
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed unless otherwise agreed by NGT.

88.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to
NGT than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus
to be removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and
rights are subject the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance
with paragraph  95  (arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to NGT as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard
to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection

89

89.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to NGT a plan and, if reasonably required by NGT, a
ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

89.2

In relation to specified works the plan to be submitted to NGT under sub-
paragraph (1) must include a method statement and describe—

89.2.a

the exact position of the works;

89.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

89.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

89.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

89.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

89.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

89.3

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)
apply until NGT has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

89.4

Any approval of NGT required under sub-paragraph (3)—

89.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (5) or (6); and

89.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

89.5

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and/or (2) apply, NGT may
require, within 21 days of submission of a plan by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph (1), such modifications to be made to the plans as is reasonably
necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against interference or
risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for the purpose of
providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

89.6

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub paragraph
(5), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and NGT and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) by NGT for the alteration
or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to
it, and NGT will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those
works.

89.7

Where NGT requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by the
undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works,
inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of the plan
approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to NGTs’ satisfaction
prior to the commencement of any specified works for which protective works
are required and NGT must give notice of its requirement for such works within
21 days of the date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except
in an emergency).

89.8

If NGT in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) and in consequence of the
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (6) and (7) apply as if the removal of the apparatus
had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  87(2) .

89.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

89.10

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to NGT notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of
those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances and comply with sub paragraph (11)
at all times;

89.11

At all times when carrying out any specified works NGT must comply with NGT’s
policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for
safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and
associated installation requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22” and HSE’s
“HS(~G)47 Avoiding Danger from underground services”.

89.12

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker shall implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that NGT retains the right to carry
out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of its
apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph  90 .

###### Expenses

90

90.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between NGT and the undertaker and
subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to NGT within 30 days of receipt of an itemised VAT invoice or claim from NGT
all charges, costs and expenses or reasonably and properly incurred by NGT in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new or
alternative apparatus which is required in consequence of the execution of any
authorised works including without limitation—

90.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by NGT in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by NGT as a
consequence of NGT—

90.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  87(3) ; or

90.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting NGT;

90.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

90.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

90.1.d

the approval of plans;

90.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

90.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

90.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

90.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

90.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

90.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph  95  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to NGT by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

90.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

90.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

90.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

90.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to NGT in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on NGT any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

91

91.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in direct consequence
of the construction of any works authorised by or in direct consequence of the
construction, use maintenance or failure of any of the authorised works by or
on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of the
undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him) in the course of
carrying out such authorised works, including works carried out by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting
directly from any of these works, any damage is caused to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the
authorised works) or property of NGT, or there is any loss resulting directly
from interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods or
energy, by NGT, or NGT becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party,
the undertaker will—

91.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from NGT the cost
reasonably and properly incurred by NGT in making good such damage or
restoring the supply; and

91.1.b

indemnify NGT for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from NGT, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption or NGT becoming liable to any
third party and including Network Code Claims other than arising from any
default of NGT.

91.2

For the avoidance of doubt, these indemnities shall not apply to penalties; or
any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working) arising from any such damage or interruption, which is not
reasonably foreseeable.

91.3

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by NGT on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by NGT or in accordance with
any requirement of NGT or under its supervision will not (unless sub-paragraph
(3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this sub-paragraph (1) unless NGT fails to carry out and execute the works
properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner
or in a manner that does not accord with the approved plan.

91.4

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

91.4.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of NGT, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;

91.4.b

any authorised works and/or any other works authorised by this Part of this
Schedule carried out by NGT as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the
undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the
Planning Act 2008 or article 7 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order)
subject to the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new
apparatus”), any authorised works yet to be executed and not falling within
this sub-paragraph will be subject to the full terms of this Part of this
Schedule including this paragraph  91 ; and/or

91.4.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable;

91.5

NGT must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party claim
or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, be
made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

91.6

NGT must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by the
undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

91.7

NGT must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise any costs,
expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under this
paragraph applies where it is within NGT’s reasonable ability and control to
do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate liability
arising from third parties which is outside of NGT’s control and if reasonably
requested to do so by the undertaker NGT must provide an explanation of how
the claim has been minimised, where relevant.

91.8

Not to commence construction (and not to permit the commencement of such
construction) of the authorised works on any land owned by NGT or in respect
of which NGT has an easement or wayleave for its apparatus or any other
interest or to carry out any works within 15 metres of NGT’s apparatus until
the following conditions are satisfied—

91.8.a

unless and until NGT is satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to all
necessary regulatory constraints) that the undertaker has first provided the
acceptable security (and provided evidence that it shall maintain such
acceptable security for the construction period of the authorised works from
the proposed date of commencement of construction of the authorised works) and
NGT has confirmed the same to the undertaker in writing; and

91.8.b

unless and until NGT is satisfied acting reasonably (but subject to all
necessary regulatory constraints) that the undertaker has procured acceptable
insurance (and provided evidence to NGT that it shall maintain such acceptable
insurance for the construction period of the authorised works from the
proposed date of commencement of construction of the authorised works) and NGT
has confirmed the same in writing to the undertaker.

91.9

In the event that the undertaker fails to comply with  (7)  of this Part of
this Schedule, nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall prevent NGT from
seeking injunctive relief (or any other equitable remedy) in any court of
competent jurisdiction.

###### Enactments and agreements

92

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between NGT and the undertaker, nothing in
this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and NGT in respect
of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the
date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

93

93.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or NGT requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph  87(2)  or NGT makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph  89 , the undertaker shall use its
best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised works and
taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
NGT’s undertaking and NGT shall use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

93.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever NGT’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by the
undertaker or the taking of action by the undertaker, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

94

Subject to paragraph  84 , if in consequence of the agreement reached in
accordance with paragraph  86(1)  or the powers granted under this Order the
access to any apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide
such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable NGT to
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

95

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and NGT under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and NGT, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 52
(arbitration).

###### Notices

96

Notwithstanding article 49 (Service of Notices), any plans submitted to NGT by
the undertaker pursuant to paragraph  89  must be submitted to
https://lsbud.co.uk/  or such other address as NGT may from time to time
appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NORTHERN GAS NETWORK’S APPARATUS

###### Application

97

For the protection of the statutory undertaker the following provisions shall,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker, have effect.

###### Interpretation

98

In this Part—

“ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “ alternative
apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Statutory undertaker to enable the Statutory undertaker to
fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;
“ commence ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 3 of the Order; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to Works, apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to such Works, apparatus or
alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; “maintain”
and “maintenance” shall include the ability and right to do any of the
following: construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove; “plan” or
“plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; “ statutory undertaker ” means Northern Gas Networks Limited
(Company Number 05167070) whose registered office is at 1100 Century Way,
Colton, Leeds, LS15 8TU;

99

Except for paragraphs  100  (apparatus of Statutory undertaker in affected
streets),  104  (retained apparatus: protection) and  105  (expenses), this
Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between
the undertaker and the statutory undertaker are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of Statutory undertaker in affected streets

100

Where any street is temporarily closed or diverted under the powers of article
14 (temporary closure of streets, cycle tracks and public rights of way) of
this Order, the Statutory undertaker shall be at liberty at all times to take
all necessary access across any such closed highway and/or to execute and do
all such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be
reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which
at the time of the closure or diversion was in that highway, subject always to
the undertaker’s unimpeded ability to carry out the Works.

###### Acquisition of land

101

Regardless of any provision in the Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker shall not
acquire any apparatus owned by the Statutory undertaker or override any
easement or other interest of the statutory undertaker otherwise than by
agreement.

###### Removal or diversion of apparatus

102

102.1

If the undertaker acquires any interest in land in which the statutory
undertaker’s apparatus is placed, that apparatus shall not be removed and any
right of a statutory undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land shall
not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the statutory undertaker provided
that the statutory undertaker shall use all reasonable endeavours to construct
and install such alternative apparatus as soon as reasonably practicable.

102.2

If, for the purpose of executing any Works, the undertaker requires the
removal or diversion of any apparatus, it shall give to the statutory
undertaker written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the
Works and the removal or diversion works proposed, the proposed position of
the alternative apparatus, and the proposed timeline for the works. The
statutory undertaker shall reasonably approve these details within 28 days of
receipt of such plan. The undertaker shall afford to the statutory undertaker
to their reasonable satisfaction the necessary facilities and rights for—

102.2.a

the construction of alternative apparatus in other land either within the
order land or otherwise; and

102.2.b

the maintenance of that apparatus

and the statutory undertaker shall complete the works using its reasonable
endeavours to meet the undertaker’s proposed timeline, and in any event
without undue delay, in accordance with the details provided by the undertaker
under this sub-paragraph or as otherwise reasonably agreed by the Undertaker.

102.3

If, in consequence of the Works carried out by the undertaker, the statutory
undertaker reasonably needs to remove or divert any of its apparatus, it shall
without undue delay give the undertaker written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus and the proposed timeline for the works. The undertaker
shall reasonably approve these details and shall afford to the statutory
undertaker to their reasonable satisfaction the necessary facilities and
rights for—

102.3.a

the construction of alternative apparatus; and

102.3.b

the maintenance of that apparatus

and the statutory undertaker shall complete the works without undue delay and
in accordance with the approved details. If agreement cannot be reached the
statutory undertaker reserves the right to terminate the Deed with immediate
effect without liability.

102.4

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraphs (2) and
(3), the statutory undertaker shall, on receipt of a written notice to that
effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are reasonable in the
circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in
the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed, but this
obligation shall not require the statutory undertaker to use its compulsory
purchase powers unless it elects to so do.

102.5

Paragraph  105  (Expenses) of this Schedule applies to removal or diversions
works under this paragraph  102 , but the statutory undertaker must provide to
the undertaker a reasonable cost estimate for works that it proposes to carry
out for the undertaker’s approval.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

103

103.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule, the undertaker
affords to the statutory undertaker facilities and rights for the construction
and maintenance in the undertaker’s land of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights shall be
granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker
and the statutory undertaker and shall be no less favourable on the whole to
the statutory undertaker than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in
respect of the apparatus to be removed, unless otherwise reasonably agreed.

103.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus in the undertaker’s land are less favourable on the
whole to the statutory undertaker than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it
in respect of the apparatus to be removed, then the undertaker and the
statutory undertaker shall agree appropriate compensation for the extent to
which the new facilities and rights render the statutory undertaker less able
to effectively carry out its undertaking or require it to do so at greater
cost. If the amount of compensation cannot be agreed, then either the
undertaker or the statutory undertaker may refer the matter to arbitration as
per article 52 (arbitration) of this Order.

###### Retained apparatus: protection

104

104.1

Not less than 28 days before commencing the execution of any Works that will
or may affect any apparatus, the removal or diversion of which has not been
required by the undertaker under paragraph  102(2)  or otherwise or by the
statutory undertaker under paragraph  102(3) , the undertaker shall submit to
the statutory undertaker in question a plan showing the Works and the
apparatus.

104.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (wherever situated)
impose any load directly upon any apparatus or involve embankment works within
15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted to the statutory
undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) shall be detailed including a method
statement and describing—

104.2.a

the exact position of the Works;

104.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

104.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

104.2.d

the position of all apparatus; and

104.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made close to
(within 15 metres of) any apparatus.

104.3

The undertaker shall not commence the construction or renewal of any works to
which sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) apply until the statutory undertaker has given
written approval of the plan so submitted.

104.4

Any approval of the statutory undertaker required under sub-paragraph (3)—

104.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5) or (7); and

104.4.b

shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

104.5

In relation to works to which sub-paragraph (2) applies, the statutory
undertaker may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its system against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

104.6

Works executed under the Order to which this paragraph  104  applies shall be
executed only in accordance with the relevant plan, notified under sub-
paragraph (1) and approved (with conditions, if applicable) under sub-
paragraph (4), as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and the statutory undertaker. The statutory undertaker shall be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those Works.

104.7

Where the statutory undertaker requires any protective works or subsidence
monitoring to be carried out either by itself or by the undertaker (whether of
a temporary or permanent nature), the statutory undertaker shall give the
undertaker notice of such requirement in its approval under sub-paragraph (3),
and—

104.7.a

such protective works shall be carried out to the statutory undertakers’
reasonable satisfaction prior to the carrying out of the relevant part of the
Works;

104.7.b

ground subsidence monitoring shall be carried out in accordance with a scheme
approved by the statutory undertaker (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed), which shall set out—

104.7.b.i

the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring;

104.7.b.ii

the extent of land to be monitored;

104.7.b.iii

the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored;

104.7.b.iv

the timescales of any monitoring activities; and

104.7.b.v

the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the
undertaker to submit for the statutory undertaker’s approval a ground
subsidence mitigation scheme in respect of such subsidence;

104.7.c

if a subsidence mitigation scheme is required, it shall be carried out as
approved by the statutory undertaker (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).

104.8

Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing
the execution of the relevant Works, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph
shall apply to and in respect of the new plan.

104.9

The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub-paragraphs (1) or (2)
where it needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act, but in
that case it shall give to the statutory undertaker notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works shall comply with the other
requirements in this paragraph insofar as is reasonably practicable in the
circumstances, provided that it always complies with sub-paragraph (10).

104.10

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order that may
or will affect the apparatus, the undertaker shall comply with the statutory
undertaker’s policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus including
the “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of Northern Gas Networks,
Gas pipelines and associated installation requirements for third parties
“NGN/SPSSW22” and the Health and Safety Executive guidance document “HS(G)47
Avoiding Danger from underground services”.

###### Expenses

105

105.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker shall
repay to the statutory undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable all
charges, costs and expenses reasonably and properly incurred by the statutory
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal or diversion,
relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the
construction of any new apparatus which may be reasonably required and
necessary in consequence of the execution of the Works, including without
limitation—

105.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with
the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such
apparatus, including without limitation in the event that the statutory
undertaker elects to use compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary
rights under  102(4) ;

105.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

105.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

105.1.d

the approval of plans;

105.1.e

the carrying out of protective works;

105.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any works carried out pursuant to
this Schedule; and

105.1.g

any statutory loss of supply payments under the ‘Guaranteed Standards of
Service’ regime that the statutory undertaker may incur in consequence of the
works, but in the event that such payments are likely to become payable, the
statutory undertaker shall give the undertaker notice as soon as reasonably
practicable of the payments and the likely amount.

105.2

The statutory undertaker shall use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in
whole or in part, and in any event to minimise, any expenses capable of being
claimed under sub-paragraph (1). If requested to do so by the undertaker, the
statutory undertaker shall provide an explanation of how the claimed expenses
have been minimised. The undertaker shall only be liable to pay expenses that
have been reasonably incurred.

105.3

There shall be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Schedule and which is
not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value being calculated
after removal and not including the costs (if any) of disposing that
apparatus.

105.4

If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule—

105.4.a

apparatus of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in
substitution for existing apparatus; or

105.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

then, if this incurs greater expense than would have been incurred by a like-
for-like (or as close as practicable to like-for like) replacement at the same
depth, the undertaker shall not be liable for this additional expense.

105.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (4)—

105.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus shall not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus.

###### Enactments and agreements

106

Nothing in this Schedule shall affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker.

###### Co-operation

107

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the Works the
undertaker or the statutory undertaker requires the removal of apparatus in
accordance with the provisions of these Protective Provisions, each party
shall use all reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of such works
in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of such
works, taking into account the absolute need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of the statutory undertaker’s undertaking and its apparatus and the
safe and efficient operation of the undertaker’s apparatus.

###### Access

108

If in consequence of the powers granted under the Order, the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker shall provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable the statutory
undertaker to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was
possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

109

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker under this Schedule shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and that statutory undertaker, be determined by
arbitration in accordance with the relevant article of the Order.

###### Works falling outside of development authorised by the Order

110

Nothing in this schedule shall require the undertaker to carry out works, or
require the undertaker to enable the statutory undertaker to carry out works,
that are not authorised by the Order. The statutory undertaker shall not
request any alteration, diversion, protective work or any other work which is
not authorised to be carried out under the Order (but for the avoidance of
doubt, it may elect to carry out such works itself under any other planning
permission, permitted development rights or statutory powers (including those
of compulsory acquisition) available to it).

###### Cathodic protection testing

111

Where in the reasonable opinion of either party—

111.a

the Authorised Development might interfere with the existing cathodic
protection forming part of the apparatus; or

111.b

the apparatus might interfere with the proposed or existing cathodic
protection forming part of the Authorised Development,

the parties shall co-operate in undertaking the tests which they consider
reasonably necessary for ascertaining the nature and extent of such
interference and measures for providing or preserving cathodic protection.

  AMENDMENT OF LOCAL LEGISLATION

Article 51

##### LOCAL ENACTMENTS

      Year Chapter Title Section   1980 XIV West Yorkshire Act 9 and 44

##### BYELAWS

          (1)       Title         (2)       Byelaw to be disapplied
Byelaws for the good rule and government of the City of Leeds and for the
prevention of nuisances made by the Council of the City in pursuance of
Section 235 of the Local Government Act 1972 5, 10, 11 and 17.

  HEDGEROWS WHICH MAY BE REMOVED

Article 46

      (1) Hedgerow (2) Grid reference (3) Importance (4) Sheet number on
Figure 8.6(B) (Volume 5, Document 5.4.8(C))   HE001 SE 57926 60107 Important
Sheet 1 HE002 SE 56766 59769 Important Sheet 1 HE003 SE 56528 59909 Important
Sheet 1 HE004 SE 56383 59858 Important Sheet 1 HE005 SE 56375 59877 Important
Sheet 1 HE006 SE 56228 59999 Important Sheet 1 HE007 SE 56613 59612 Important
Sheet 1 HE008 SE 56395 59455 Important Sheet 1 HE009 SE 56466 59439 Important
Sheet 1 HE010 SE 56594 59226 Important Sheet 1 HE011 SE 56592 58923 Important
Sheet 1 HE012 SE 56590 58905 Important Sheet 1 HE013 SE 56286 58301 Important
Sheet 1 HE014 SE 55984 57930 Important Sheet 2 HE015 SE 55423 57809 Not
Important Sheet 2 HE016 SE 55821 57613 Important Sheet 2 HE019 SE 55941 56647
Not Important Sheet 2 HE020 SE 56054 56443 Not Important Sheet 3 HE021 SE
56095 56337 Not Important Sheet 3 HE022 SE 56199 55768 Not Important Sheet 3
HE023 SE 56030 56061 Not Important Sheet 3 HE024 SE 55311 56091 Important
Sheet 3 HE025 SE 55430 56997 Important Sheet 2 HE026 SE 55425 57100 Important
Sheet 2 HE027 SE 55396 57127 Important Sheet 2 HE028 SE 55402 57199 Important
Sheet 2 HE029 SE 55176 57051 Not Important Sheet 2 HE030 SE 54714 56776
Important Sheet 2 HE031 SE 54195 56282 Important Sheet 3 HE032 SE 54062 56250
Important Sheet 3 HE033 SE 53845 55776 Important Sheet 3 HE034 SE 54044 55433
Important Sheet 3 HE035 SE 54105 55306 Important Sheet 3 HE036 SE 54661 54929
Not Important Sheet 3 HE037 SE 54767 54889 Important Sheet 3 HE038 SE 54897
54831 Important Sheet 3 HE039 SE 54915 54811 Important Sheet 3 HE040 SE 52567
56254 Important Sheet 4 HE041 SE 52393 56293 Important Sheet 4 HE042 SE 52378
56407 Important Sheet 4 HE043 SE 52327 56401 Important Sheet 4 HE044 SE 52297
56319 Important Sheet 4 HE045 SE 51974 56589 Not Important Sheet 4 HE046 SE
51492 56433 Not Important Sheet 4 HE047 SE 51418 56409 Important Sheet 4 HE048
SE 51315 56313 Important Sheet 4 HE049 SE 50992 56234 Important Sheet 4 HE050
SE 51002 56207 Not Important Sheet 4 HE051 SE 51192 56053 Important Sheet 4
HE052 SE 51118 55837 Important Sheet 4 HE053 SE 514925 5393 Important Sheet 4
HE054 SE 51147 54638 Not Important Sheet 5 HE055 SE 50777 54702 Important
Sheet 5 HE056 SE 51028 54457 Important Sheet 5 HE057 SE 51041 54448 Important
Sheet 5 HE058 SE 50672 54388 Important Sheet 5 HE059 SE 50391 53678 Important
Sheet 5 HE060 SE 50323 53469 Not Important Sheet 5 HE061 SE 49062 52067
Important Sheet 6 HE062 SE 49050 52058 Important Sheet 6 HE063 SE 48992 52055
Important Sheet 6 HE064 SE 49251 51962 Important Sheet 6 HE065 SE 49224 51921
Important Sheet 6 HE066 SE 49481 51810 Important Sheet 6 HR067 SE 49045 50836
Important Sheet 6 HE068 SE 49062 50805 Important Sheet 6 HE069 SE 48914 50331
Not Important Sheet 7 HE070 SE 48638 48964 Important Sheet 7 HE071 SE 48925
48439 Important Sheet 7 HE072 SE 47954 46665 Important Sheet 8 HE073 SE 48452
46027 Important Sheet 8 HE074 SE 47649 45031 Important Sheet 8 HE075 SE 47612
45002 Important Sheet 8 HE076 SE 47501 44507 Important Sheet 8 HE077 SE 46923
42815 Important Sheet 9 HE078 SE 46856 42552 Important Sheet 9 HE079 SE 46266
42420 Important Sheet 9 HE080 SE 46467 42212 Important Sheet 9 HE081 SE 46287
41936 Important Sheet 9 HE082 SE 46407 41818 Not Important Sheet 9 HE083 SE
46401 41805 Not Important Sheet 9 HE084 SE 45808 41712 Not Important Sheet 9
HE085 SE 45796 41720 Important Sheet 9 HE086 SE 45430 41955 Important Sheet 9
HE087 SE 45627 40876 Important Sheet 9 HE088 SE 46432 38155 Important Sheet 10
HE089 SE 46114 38043 Important Sheet 10 HE090 SE 46154 37942 Important Sheet
10 HE091 SE 46462 37988 Important Sheet 10 HE092 SE 46386 37801 Important
Sheet 10 HE093 SE 46733 36981 Important Sheet 10 HE094 SE 46722 36956
Important Sheet 10 HE095 SE 46976 35119 Important Sheet 11 HE096 SE 47840
33184 Important Sheet 12 HE097 SE 47043 32182 Important Sheet 12 HE098 SE
47172 30889 Important Sheet 13 HE099 SE 47219 30876 Important Sheet 13 HE100
SE 47168 30858 Important Sheet 13 HE101 SE 48403 30402 Important Sheet 13
HE102 SE 47535 29902 Not Important Sheet 13 HE103 SE 47553 29662 Not Important
Sheet 13 HE104 SE 48421 29425 Important Sheet 13 HE105 SE 48437 29327
Important Sheet 13 HE106 SE 48625 29000 Important Sheet 13

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises National Grid to undertake works to the national
electricity transmission system between the existing substation at Monk
Fryston to the existing substation at Osbaldwick. The proposed development is
required to provide sufficient transmission capacity to enable the connection
of new electricity generation projects in the region, and to carry out all
associated works.

  The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

  The Order permits National Grid to acquire compulsorily or by agreement,
land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

  A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in this Order and
certified in accordance with article  48  (certification of plans, etc.) of
this Order may be inspected free of charge during working hours at the offices
of National Grid Electricity Transmission plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.

