Title: The Police Pensions (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-04-04
Description: These regulations amend the Royal Ulster Constabulary Pensions Regulations 1988 (“the 1988 Regulations”), the Police Pension (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2009 (“the 2009 Regulations”) and the Police Pensions Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (“the 2015 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/38

## The Police Pensions (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

Public Service Pensions

Made 6th March 2024

Coming into operation 1st April 2024

The Department of Justice makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 25(2)(k) and 26(2)(g) of the Police (Northern Ireland)
Act 1998  (“ the 1998 Act ”), Articles 14 and 15 of the Superannuation
(Northern Ireland) Order 1972  and sections 1(1), (2)(g), 2(1) (together with
paragraph 7 of Schedule 2) and 3(1) to (3) (together with Schedule 3) of the
Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014  (“ the 2014 Act ”). In
accordance with section 25(9)(a) of the 1998 Act, the Department of Justice
has invited the views of the Police Advisory Board for England and Wales. In
accordance with section 26(6) of the 1998 Act, the Department has consulted
both the Northern Ireland Policing Board and the Police Association for
Northern Ireland. In accordance with section 22 of the 2014 Act , the
Department has also consulted the representatives of such persons as appear to
the Department likely to be affected by these Regulations. In accordance with
section 72(2A) of the 1998 Act and section 3(5) of the 2014 Act, the
Department of Finance  has consented to the making of these Regulations.

### Citation, commencement, and effect

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Police Pensions (Amendment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2024.

2

These Regulations come into operation on 1st April 2024 except the following—

2.a

Regulation 48 has effect from 6th April 2006.

2.b

Regulations 47, 49 and 51 have effect from 1st July 2014.

2.c

Regulations 4, 6 - 9, 11 - 34, 39 - 43, 45 and 50 have effect from 1st April
2015.

2.d

Regulations 37 and 38 have effect from 6th April 2016 .

### Police Pensions

#### Amendment of the Police Pensions Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

3

The Police Pensions Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Interpretation

4

4.1

Regulation 2 is amended as follows.

4.2

After the definition of “career break” omit the definition of “(“the
member”)”.

4.3

After “full retirement pension which comes into payment early on the grounds
of permanent medical unfitness” for “has the meaning given in Part 7, Chapter
3” substitute  “in relation to a member of this scheme, means a full
retirement pension to which the member becomes entitled under regulation 89(3)
(Entitlement to full retirement pension (deferred members))” .

4.4

After the definition of “full retirement pension which comes into payment
early on the grounds of permanent medical unfitness” insert —

full time service” means— for a member who falls within regulation 4(1)(a),
service by a person appointed under section 35 or 36 of the 2000 Act; for a
member who falls within regulation 4(1)(b), service by a person appointed
under section 37 of the 2000 Act; for a member who falls within regulation
4(1)(c), service by a person appointed under section 39 of the 2000 Act; for a
member who falls within regulations 4(1)(d), service by the person appointed
under section 40 of the 2000 Act.

;

4.5

Omit “weekly rate” and associated footnote.

#### Police Pension Board: membership

5

In regulation 11 (Police Pension Board: membership), at paragraph (1)(a) omit
the words “with departmental approval”.

#### Eligible Service

6

6.1

Regulation 18 (Eligible Service) is amended as follows.

6.2

For paragraph (3), substitute—

6.2.3

For the purpose of these regulations a member of the police service who falls
within regulation 4(1)(a) and 4(1)(b) remains in eligible service during a
career break.

6.3

In paragraph (4), for “a member of a police force” substitute  “a member of
the police service” .

#### Periods of unpaid leave

7

In regulation 19 (Periods of unpaid leave) after sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii)
insert—

7.1A

For the purpose of determining entitlement to payment of benefits to or in
respect of a member of this scheme who falls within regulations 4(1)(b),
4(1)(c) or 4(1)(d), the member is taken to be an active member of this scheme
during any other period of unpaid leave—

7.1A.i

that does not exceed 5 years; and

7.1A.ii

during which the employment relationship continues.

#### Automatic re-enrolment

8

In regulation 26(3) (Automatic re-enrolment) for “scheme manager” substitute
“employer” .

#### Pensionable earnings

9

In regulation 30 (Pensionable earnings) for paragraph (2) substitute—

9.2

A member’s pensionable earnings for any period means pay to which the member
is entitled in that period, account being taken of any retrospective increase
in that pay.

#### Eligibility for payment of ill-health benefits

10

Chapter 4 (Eligibility for payment of ill-health benefits) shall cease to have
effect from 1 st  April 2024.

#### Meaning of deferred member

11

In regulation 40 (Meaning of deferred member) in paragraph (4), after
“Paragraph” for “(2)” substitute  “(3)” .

#### Decision of selected medical practitioner

12

12.1

Regulation 74 (Decision of selected medical practitioner) is amended as
follows.

12.2

For paragraph (2)(b), substitute—

12.2.b

that inability is occasioned by infirmity of mind or body and is likely to
continue until the day on which—

12.2.b.i

the member reaches normal pension age under this scheme; or

12.2.b.ii

the member dies (if the selected medical practitioner considers the member is
likely to die before reaching normal pension age under this scheme).

12.3

For paragraph (3)(b), substitute—

12.3.b

that inability is occasioned by infirmity of mind or body and is likely to
continue until the day on which—

12.3.b.i

the member reaches normal pension age under this scheme; or

12.3.b.ii

the member dies (if the selected medical practitioner considers the member is
likely to die before reaching normal pension age under this scheme).

12.4

For paragraph (3)(d), substitute—

12.4.d

that inability is occasioned by infirmity of mind or body and is likely to
continue until the day on which—

12.4.d.i

the member reaches normal pension age under this scheme; or

12.4.d.ii

the member dies (if the selected medical practitioner considers the member is
likely to die before reaching normal pension age under this scheme).

#### Refusal to be medically examined or attend interviews

13

In regulation 75 (Refusal to be medically examined or attend interviews) after
paragraph (2)(b) insert—

13.3

An appeal under Schedule 1 against a decision of a selected medical
practitioner is taken to be withdrawn if—

13.3.a

a question as to whether a member of the police service is permanently
medically unfit is referred to an IMR for decision; and

13.3.b

the person wilfully or negligently fails to submit to any medical examination
or to attend any interviews that the IMR considers necessary in order to make
a decision.

.

#### Referral of medical questions for purpose of regulation 80

14

In regulation 79 (Referral of medical questions for purpose of regulation 80)
after paragraph (4) insert—

14.5

That report is final, subject to—

14.5.a

an appeal under Schedule 1 against the decision of the selected medical
practitioner; or

14.5.b

a referral under Schedule 1 of the decision of the selected medical
practitioner for reconsideration.

#### Application of Chapter

15

In regulation 83 (Application of Chapter) for paragraph (2) substitute—

15.2

For the purpose of this Chapter—

15.2.a

a former member of the police service is taken to be a member of the police
service; and

15.2.b

“ police pension authority ” in relation to the former member of the police
service, means the police pension authority for the police service.

#### Referral of medical questions for purpose of early payment of full retirement pension on grounds of permanent medical unfitness

16

16.1

Regulation 84 (Referral of medical questions for purpose of early payment of
full retirement pension on grounds of permanent medical unfitness) is amended
as follows.

16.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

16.2.1

Before considering whether a deferred member of this scheme is entitled to
early payment of a full retirement pension on grounds of permanent medical
unfitness, the police pension authority must refer the following questions to
the selected medical practitioner for decision—

16.3

After paragraph (2)(c) insert—

16.3.3

The report is final, subject to—

16.3.3.a

an appeal under Schedule 1 against the decision of the selected medical
practitioner; or

16.3.3.b

the referral under Schedule 1 of the decision of the selected medical
practitioner for reconsideration.

16.3.4

For the purpose of paragraph (1), “ early payment ” means payment before the
member reaches the member’s state pension age .

#### Qualifying Service

17

In regulation 86 (Qualifying service) for paragraph (3) substitute—

17.3

In calculating the member’s qualifying service for a member who falls within
regulation 4(1)(b) or (d), a continuous period of service under this scheme or
an existing police pension scheme counts as if it were a period of full-time
service in the Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve.

#### Entitlement to full retirement pension (active members)

18

In regulation 88 (Entitlement to full retirement pension (active members)),
for paragraph (1)(d) substitute—

18.d

the member claims payment of a full retirement pension under regulation 90
(Claim for payment of full retirement pension (active members)).

#### Entitlement to full retirement pension (deferred members)

19

19.1

In Regulation 89 (Entitlement to full retirement pension (deferred members))
is amended as follows.

19.2

At the end of paragraph (2)(b), insert the word  “and” .

19.3

At the end of paragraph (2)(c), for “; and” substitute  “.” .

19.4

Omit paragraph (2)(d).

19.5

At the end of paragraph (3)(b), insert the word  “and” .

19.6

At the end of paragraph 3(c), for “;” substitute  “.” .

19.7

Omit paragraph (3)(d) and associated footnote.

19.8

Omit paragraph (3)(e).

#### Claim for payment of full retirement pension (active members)

20

In regulation 90 (Claim for payment of full retirement pension (active
members)) after paragraph (3) insert—

20.4

Unless this regulation provides otherwise, a member of the police service
engaged on relevant service under section 27 of the 1998 Act must give notice
of intent to claim the pension in accordance with the notice period that
applies under the member’s terms and conditions of employment in relation to
termination of service.

#### Notice period for active members

21

In regulation 91 (Notice period for active members) at paragraph (1) after “in
accordance with” insert  “the notice period that applies under” .

#### Payment thresholds

22

22.1

Regulation 99 (Payment thresholds) is amended as follows.

22.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

22.2.1

A member of this scheme meets the lower tier threshold for payment of an ill-
health pension (“lower tier threshold”) under this Chapter if the selected
medical practitioner gives a report and certificate under Part 6 containing
the decision that—

22.2.1.a

the member is permanently medically unfit for performing the ordinary duties
of a member of the police service; but

22.2.1.b

the member is not permanently medically unfit for engaging in any regular
employment.

22.3

At paragraph (2) after “(“upper tier threshold”)” insert  “under this Chapter”
.

#### Entitlement to payment of ill-health pension

23

In regulation 100 (Entitlement to payment of ill-health pension), at paragraph
2(c) after “ill-health benefits” insert  “for the period for which the member
has paid contributions at the full member contributions rate under regulation
169” .

#### Annual rate of ill-health pension under this scheme

24

In regulation 102 (Annual rate of ill-health pension under this scheme),
within the formula at paragraph (6), for “pensionable pay” substitute
“pensionable service” .

#### Referral of medical question for purpose of reduction of benefits

25

In regulation 104 (Referral of medical question for purpose of reduction of
benefits), at paragraph (5)(b) after “Schedule” insert  “1” .

#### Reduction of pension in case of default

26

In regulation 105 (Reduction of pension in case of default); for paragraph (5)
substitute—

26.5

When the member reaches the member’s state pension age, if the reduced pension
is less than the amount of full retirement pension that would have been
payable to the member under regulation 89(2) had the member reached the
member’s state pension age when the member left eligible service, the scheme
manager must increase the pension to that amount.

#### Refusal to be medically examined

27

In regulation 106 (Refusal to be medically examined) for paragraph (a)
substitute—

27.a

the question in regulation 104 (Referral of medical question for purpose of
reduction of benefits) is referred to a selected medical practitioner for
decision; and

.

#### Decision of scheme manager void if appeal against decision of selected medical practitioner is successful

28

For regulation 107 (Decision of scheme manager void if appeal against decision
of selected medical practitioner is successful) substitute—

28.107

28.107.1

A decision of the scheme manager under this Chapter is void if—

28.107.1.a

the selected medical practitioner decides that the member has brought about or
substantially contributed to the medical unfitness by the member’s own
default;

28.107.1.b

the member appeals under Schedule 1 against the decision of the selected
medical practitioner; and

28.107.1.c

the IMR decides that the member did not bring about or substantially
contribute to the medical unfitness by the member’s own default.

#### Review of lower tier ill-health pension

29

In regulation 108 (Review of lower tier ill-health pension) at paragraph (3),
for “chooses” substitute  “in its discretion determines” .

#### Review and cancellation of enhanced upper tier ill-health pension

30

30.1

Regulation 112 (Review and cancellation of enhanced upper tier ill-health
pension) is amended as follows.

30.2

For paragraph (3) substitute—

30.2.3

A review may be carried out at intervals of no less than 5 years as the scheme
manager in its discretion determines.

30.3

At paragraph (8)(b) after “report” insert  “and certificate” .

#### Review and cancellation of full retirement pension which came into payment early on the grounds of permanent medical unfitness

31

In regulation 114 (Review and cancellation of full retirement pension which
came into payment early on the grounds of medical unfitness), for paragraph
(3) substitute—

31.3

A review may be carried out at intervals of no less than 5 years as the scheme
manager in its discretion determines.

#### Decision of scheme manager void if appeal against decision of selected medical practitioner is successful

32

32.1

Regulation 117 (Decision of scheme manager void if appeal against decision of
selected medical practitioner is successful) is amended as follows.

32.2

After “117.” insert  “—(1)” .

32.3

After sub-paragraph (a)(i) insert  “or” .

32.4

At the end of sub-paragraph (a)(ii), for “;or” substitute  “.” .

32.5

Omit sub-paragraph (a)(iii).

32.6

For sub-paragraph (c) substitute—

32.6.c

the IMR decides that the member is not so permanently medically unfit.

32.7

After sub-paragraph (c) insert—

32.7.2

A decision of the scheme manager under this Chapter is void if —

32.7.2.a

the selected medical practitioner decides that—

32.7.2.a.i

the member is not permanently medically unfit for performing the ordinary
duties of a member of the police service; or

32.7.2.a.ii

the member is not permanently medically unfit for engaging in any regular
employment;

32.7.2.b

the member appeals under Schedule 1 against the decision of the selected
medical practitioner; and

32.7.2.c

the IMR decides that the member is so permanently medically unfit.

#### Option to buy out early payment reduction

33

33.1

Regulation 120 (Option to buy out early payment reduction) is amended as
follows.

33.2

In paragraph (2) after “buy out” insert  “all or part of” .

33.3

In paragraph (3) after “The cost” insert  “to buy out all or part of the early
payment reduction” .

#### Death gratuity – estate

34

34.1

Regulation 165 (Death gratuity – estate) is amended as follows.

34.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

34.2.1

This regulation applies in relation to a member of this scheme—

34.2.1.a

who dies as an active member; or

34.2.1.b

who dies as a deferred member or a pension member of this scheme if the death
results from an injury received in the execution of his duty; or

34.2.1.c

who dies as a pension member of this scheme if the member dies within 2 years
after becoming a pensioner member.

34.3

In paragraph (4) for “A claim for payment” substitute  “For the purpose of an
appeal to the Department under regulation 206 (Appeals to the Department), a
claim for payment” .

#### Rate of member’s contribution

35

35.1

Regulation 169 (Rate of member’s contributions) is amended as follows—

35.2

At paragraph (2) after “column 2” omit “or 3”.

35.3

For paragraph (3) substitute—

35.3.3

Column 2 sets out the member contributions rate that applies for payment of
ill-health benefits under this scheme (“full member contributions rate.”)

35.4

Omit paragraphs (4) and (5).

35.5

Renumber paragraph (6) as (4).

35.6

Renumber paragraph (7) as (5).

35.7

In the table, (“For each scheme year falling in period beginning 1 st  April
2015”) omit column 3 “(Reduced Member Contributions rate)”.

#### Employer contributions

36

In regulation 173 (Employer contributions) at paragraph (1) for “35”
substitute  “46.6” .

#### Commutation of small pensions

37

37.1

Regulation 202 (Commutation of small pensions) is amended as follows.

37.2

Omit paragraph (5)(a) and associated footnote.

37.3

For “(b)” substitute  “(a)” , for “(c)” substitute  “(b)”  and for “(d)”
substitute  “(c)” .

#### Interpretation and application

38

In regulation 203 (Interpretation and application) omit paragraph (1)(c) and
associated footnote.

#### Forfeiture: offences committed by members

39

39.1

Regulation 209 (Forfeiture: offences committed by members) is amended as
follows.

39.2

After paragraph (3) insert—

39.2.3A

The pension supervising authority may to the extent that in its discretion it
thinks fit restore to the member or apply for the benefit of an eligible child
or surviving adult of the member any amount of pension that has been forfeited
under this regulation.

39.3

In paragraph (4) at “relevant offence” for “(c)” substitute  “(a)”  and for
“(d)” substitute  “(b)” .

#### Forfeiture: offences committed by a member’s beneficiary

40

40.1

Regulation 210 (Forfeiture: offences committed by a member’s beneficiary) is
amended as follows.

40.2

Omit paragraph (3).

40.3

Renumber paragraph (4) as (3).

40.4

For paragraph (5) substitute—

40.4.4

In this regulation—

“ beneficiary ” in relation to a deceased member of this scheme, means
surviving adult or eligible child of the member,”

“ relevant criminal offence ” means—

40.4.a

the murder of the member;

40.4.b

the manslaughter of the member; or

40.4.c

any other offence of which the unlawful killing of the member is an element.

#### Reduction of benefits where annual allowance charge paid by scheme manager

41

In regulation 219 (Reduction of benefits where annual allowance charge paid by
scheme manager) after paragraph (4) insert—

41.5

In this regulation—

“ tax year ” means a period of one year which is the period of assessment for
income tax purposes.

#### Medical decisions: appeals and reconsideration

42

42.1

Schedule 1 (Medical decisions: appeals and reconsideration) is amended as
follows.

42.2

After “Regulations”, for “77 and 78” substitute  “75, 79, 104, 115 and 207” .

42.3

In paragraph 1 (Interpretation) in “medical decision” for sub paragraph (d)
substitute—

42.3.d

a report by the selected medical practitioner under regulation 104 (referral
of medical question for purpose of reduction of benefits)

.

#### Transitional provisions

43

43.1

Schedule 4 (Transitional provisions) is amended as follows.

43.2

For paragraph 39(7) substitute—

43.2.7

The annual rate of pension payable to the member under the 1988 scheme is the
higher of —

43.2.7.a

the amount calculated by multiplying the accrual rate by the member’s final
pay; or

43.2.7.b

where a member is entitled to a deferred pension under regulation B5 (member’s
deferred pension) and under Part 6 (member’s deferred pension) of Schedule B,
the amount of pension that would have been payable under the 1988 scheme if
those provisions applied for the calculation instead of paragraphs (3) to (6)
of this paragraph.

### Police Pensions

#### Amendment of the Police Pension (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2009

44

The Police Pension (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2009  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Forfeiture of Pension

45

45.1

Regulation 52 (Forfeiture of Pension) is amended as follows.

45.2

For paragraph (2)(b) substitute—

45.2.2

45.2.2.b

the beneficiary of a deceased member of this scheme is convicted of a relevant
criminal offence mentioned in paragraph (3A).

45.3

In paragraph (3) for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraph (2)(a)”

45.4

After paragraph (3) insert—

45.4.3A

the relevant criminal offences referred to in paragraph (2)(b) are—

45.4.3A.a

the murder of the member;

45.4.3A.b

the manslaughter of the member; or

45.4.3A.c

any other offence of which the unlawful killing of the member is an element.

45.5

After paragraph (4) insert—

45.5.4A

If the scheme manager withholds all of the benefits payable to a beneficiary,
regulations 36 to 39 apply as if the beneficiary has died before the member.

45.6

After paragraph (7) insert—

45.6.8

In this Regulation, “ beneficiary ” means either a child survivor or an adult
survivor as defined in regulation 37.

### Police Pensions

#### Amendment of the Royal Ulster Constabulary Pensions Regulations 1988

46

The Royal Ulster Constabulary Pensions Regulations 1988  are amended
accordance with this Part.

#### Pension debit members

47

In regulation C10 (Pension debit members), after “C8,” omit the words from
“and the pension” to “C9 is made,”.

#### Child’s allowance or special gratuity - limitations

48

48.1

Regulation D5 is amended as follows.

48.2

In the title to regulation D5 (Child’s allowance or special gratuity -
limitations), remove the words “or special gratuity”.

48.3

After paragraph (5) insert—

48.3.5A

Without prejudice to paragraph (1), where an allowance under paragraph (5) is
payable to a child who has attained the age of 19 years, the allowance is
payable as follows—

48.3.5A.a

In the case of a child who satisfies condition (a) in paragraph (8), until the
earlier of the date on which the child–—

48.3.5A.a.i

ceases to be in the full-time education or full-time training, or

48.3.5A.a.ii

attains the age of 23.

48.3.5A.b

In the case of a child who satisfies condition (b) in paragraph (8), for life.

48.4

In paragraph (6), for the words “(4) and (5)”, substitute  “(4), (5) and (5A)”
.

48.5

In paragraph (8), for the words “and (5)”, substitute  “(5) and (5A)” .

#### Gratuity in lieu of widow’s pension

49

In regulation E4 (Gratuity in lieu of widow’s pension) omit paragraph (4).

#### Forfeiture of Pension

50

50.1

Regulation K5 is amended as follows.

50.2

For paragraph (2) substitute—

50.2.2

Subject to paragraph (5), the Board may determine that the pension be
forfeited, in whole or in part and permanently or temporarily as it may
specify, where —

50.2.2.a

the pensioner has been convicted of an offence mentioned in paragraph (3); or

50.2.2.b

the beneficiary of a deceased member of this scheme is convicted of a relevant
criminal offence specified in paragraph (3A).

50.3

In paragraph (3) for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraph (2)(a)” .

50.4

After paragraph (3) insert—

50.4.3A

The relevant criminal offences referred to in paragraph (2)(b) are—

50.4.3A.i

the murder of the member;

50.4.3A.ii

the manslaughter of the member; or

50.4.3A.iii

any other offence of which the unlawful killing of the member is an element.

50.5

After paragraph (4) insert—

50.5.4A

If the Board withholds all of the benefits payable to a beneficiary, Parts C,
D, and E apply as if the beneficiary has died before the member.

50.6

After paragraph (7) insert—

50.6.8

In this regulation, “ beneficiary ” means—

50.6.8.i

a widow to whom Part C applies;

50.6.8.ii

a child to whom Part D applies.

#### Schedule A (Glossary of Expressions)

51

At “widow” for “regulations C9, C9A and”, substitute  “regulation” .

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 6th March 2024
Naomi Long Minster of Justice Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department
of Finance on 6th March 2024. Patrick Neeson A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These regulations amend the Royal Ulster Constabulary Pensions Regulations
1988 (“ the 1988 Regulations ”), the Police Pension (Northern Ireland)
Regulations 2009 (“ the 2009 Regulations ”) and the Police Pensions
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (“ the 2015 Regulations ”).

Part 1 makes amendments to the 2015 Regulations.

Regulation 5 removes the requirement of the Scheme Manager to seek
departmental approval when appointing a chair to the Police Pension Board,
thereby aligning the 2015 Regulations with equivalent practices taken by
police schemes in England and Wales.

Regulations 7 and 17 amend the 2015 regulations to include provision for part-
time members of the Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve and police
trainees.

Regulations 12-16, 22-25, 27-32, and 42 contain minor technical amendments to
clarify interpretation and assist the execution of the ill-health retirement
and appeals process.

Regulation 33 provides clarity regarding an option to buy out early payment
reduction.

Regulations 10 and 35 amend the regulations to remove the ill-health
eligibility assessment of members joining the scheme.

Regulation 36 details the increase in the employer contribution rate following
the 2020 scheme valuation.

Regulations 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 18-21, 26, 34, 40, 41, and 43 make minor technical
amendments to amend typological errors and clarify interpretation.

Regulations 37 and 38 remove references to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Contracting-out) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996.

Regulation 39 provides the pension supervising authority with the discretion
to restore a pension that has been forfeited.

Part 2 makes amendments to the 2009 Regulations.

Regulation 45 aligns the provisions for forfeiture of beneficiaries in the
2009 Regulations with those in the 2015 Regulations.

Part 3 makes amendments to the 1988 Regulations.

Regulations 47, 49 and 51 make technical amendment relating the reinstatement
of the widows’ pension on 1 July 2014.

Regulation 48 aligns the 1988 Regulations with the requirements of the Finance
Act 2004 with regard to limitation on child allowance.

Regulation 50 aligns the provisions for forfeiture of beneficiaries in the
1988 Regulations with those in the 2015 Regulations.

