Title: The Fisheries Act 2020 (Scheme for Financial Assistance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: These Regulations establish a scheme in relation to Northern Ireland for the giving of grants under paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 6 to the Fisheries Act 2020 (c. 22).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/141

## The Fisheries Act 2020 (Scheme for Financial Assistance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Aquaculture       Fisheries

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   25th June 2024

  Coming into operation    30th June 2024

      The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs, in
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 3 of Schedule 6 to the Fisheries
Act 2020 , makes the following Regulations.

### General

#### Citation, commencement, and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Fisheries Act 2020 (Scheme for Financial
Assistance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and come into operation on
30th June 2024.

1.2

These Regulations apply—

1.2.a

in relation to Northern Ireland;

1.2.b

in relation to the Northern Ireland zone; and

1.2.c

in relation to Northern Ireland fishing boats.

1.3

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  applies to these Regulations
as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Establishment of scheme

#### Establishment of scheme

2

2.1

These Regulations establish a scheme for the giving of financial assistance
under paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 6 to the Fisheries Act 2020.

2.2

Part 3 of these Regulations constitutes the scheme.

### Payments of grants by the Department

#### Interpretation

3

3.1

In this Part—

“ the Department ” means the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural
Affairs; “ excluded activity or cost ” means an activity or a cost specified
in regulation 5; “ notify ” means notify in writing, and any reference to a
“notice” or “notification” is to a notice or notification given in writing;
and “ writing ” includes electronic communications within the meaning of
section 4 (interpretation) of the Electronic Communications Act (Northern
Ireland) 2001 .

#### Payments by the Department

4

4.1

The Department may, in accordance with this scheme, pay grants for any of the
purposes specified in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 6 to the Fisheries Act 2020.

4.2

The Department may only pay a grant under paragraph (1)—

4.2.a

in relation to Northern Ireland;

4.2.b

in relation to the Northern Ireland zone; or

4.2.c

in relation to a Northern Ireland fishing boat or Northern Ireland fishing
boats.

4.3

The Department must not pay a grant under paragraph (1) for an excluded
activity or cost.

#### Excluded activities and costs

5

5.1

The following activities and costs are excluded from this scheme—

5.1.a

increasing the fishing capacity of a fishing boat;

5.1.b

building, purchasing or acquiring a fishing boat;

5.1.c

importing a fishing boat into the United Kingdom;

5.1.d

activities which the applicant, or any other person associated with the same
project, has a statutory duty to undertake;

5.1.e

interest on a debt;

5.1.f

any cost that could be recovered in part or in full under an insurance policy;

5.1.g

any cost which has been recovered in part or in full as a result of damages
having been awarded in civil proceedings, or an agreement having been reached
in settlement of a legal claim.

5.2

In this regulation—

“ project ” means a project to which an application for a grant under this
scheme relates; and “ fishing capacity ” has the same meaning as in Article 4
of  Regulation (EU) No  1380/2013  of the European Parliament and of the
Council on the Common Fisheries Policy .

#### Advertisement of grants and guidance

6

The Department must—

6.a

advertise the grants available under this scheme; and

6.b

provide guidance notes for completing applications.

#### Application for a grant

7

7.1

An application for a grant under this scheme must be made in a form approved,
and submitted in a manner specified, by the Department.

7.2

An application must supply all the information specified.

7.3

The application must be made within any specified time limit.

7.4

In this regulation, “ specified ” means specified in such form or on any
documentation provided by the Department with or in connection with this
Scheme.

#### Decision and notification

8

8.1

The Department must—

8.1.a

decide whether to approve an application unconditionally, to refuse or reject
it or to approve it subject to such conditions it may determine; and

8.1.b

notify the applicant of the decision made under sub-paragraph (a).

#### Review of Decision

9

9.1

A person may apply to the Department for a review of a decision in relation to
this Scheme in accordance with this Regulation.

9.2

An application for review must be made to the Department no later than one
month from the date of the notification of the decision to be reviewed.

9.3

An application for review shall be in writing and shall specify—

9.3.a

the name and address of the person applying for the review;

9.3.b

the decision of the Department in respect of which the application for review
is made and its date; and

9.3.c

full particulars of the grounds upon which a review of the decision is sought.

9.4

Where an application for review is made the Department shall review the
decision.

9.5

In reviewing a decision the Department may—

9.5.a

consider any document or other evidence produced by the person (whether or not
that document or evidence was available at the time of the decision);

9.5.b

invite the person to provide such information relevant to the review as the
applicant considers appropriate; and

9.5.c

give the person, or their representative, an opportunity to make
representations orally or in writing.

9.6

Following a review of the decision the Department may—

9.6.a

confirm the decision; or

9.6.b

substitute for it a new decision.

9.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after reviewing the decision, the Department
must notify the person in writing of its decision and the reasons for it.

#### Evidence of expenditure etc.

10

10.1

The Department must not make a payment to a person under this scheme unless it
is satisfied that the person has properly incurred, or will properly incur,
expenditure of a kind in respect of which the grant is payable and has
complied, or will comply, with any conditions of the approval of the grant.

10.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the Department may require the person to
provide information evidencing expenditure or any necessary actions relating
to the grant.

#### Method of payment

11

The Department may decide to pay a grant under this scheme in a single
instalment or in a number of instalments.

#### Records, inspection and notification of changes

12

It is a condition of the payment of any grant that the person to whom the
payment is made must—

12.a

make a record of all payments of grant made and all expenditure in respect of
which such payments are made;

12.b

keep any record referred to in sub-paragraph (a) for at least six years after
the date on which the last payment was made;

12.c

upon reasonable notice by the Department, make any record referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) available for inspection; and

12.d

notify the Department as soon as reasonably practicable of any material change
in circumstances that is relevant to the payment of the grant.

#### Variation, suspension and revocation of approval

13

13.1

The Department may, at any time before the grant has been paid in full,
suspend or revoke the approval, or vary a condition of the approval.

13.2

Where the Department has decided to suspend or revoke the approval or vary a
condition of the approval, it must notify the person to whom the approval
relates of the decision.

#### Notice of recovery of payment

14

14.1

The Department may give notice to require the repayment of any part of a grant
paid to a person under this scheme.

14.2

Before giving notice under paragraph (1), the Department must be satisfied
that—

14.2.a

the approved application in respect of which the payment of grant was made, or
any supporting information provided by the applicant in relation to it,
contained information that was inaccurate or misleading;

14.2.b

any sum paid by way of grant was used for any purpose other than the purpose
for which it was paid; or

14.2.c

any condition subject to which the application was approved, or the grant was
paid, has not been or will not be complied with.

14.3

A notice given under paragraph (1) must require the person to repay the sum
specified in the notice within a period so specified, being no less than 28
days from the date on which the notice is issued.

14.4

Where any part of the sum specified in a notice under paragraph (1) is not
repaid within the period specified in the notice, the Department may recover
such amount as remains outstanding summarily as a civil debt.

#### Enforcement

15

An officer of the Department has an enforcement function in relation to any
offence or suspected offence by any person in relation to an application for a
grant made under this scheme.

#### Data processing and publishing

16

16.1

The Department may publish the following information about each grant given
under this scheme—

16.1.a

the name of the recipient of the grant;

16.1.b

the amount of the grant; and

16.1.c

the purpose for which the grant was given.

16.2

The information specified in paragraph (1) must be published as soon as
reasonably practicable after the payment of the grant in full.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Agriculture, Environment
and Rural Affairs on 25th June 2024. (L.S.) Owen Lyttle A senior officer of
the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations establish a scheme in relation to Northern Ireland for the
giving of grants under paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 6 to the Fisheries Act  2020
(c. 22) .

  Part 1 of these Regulations contains general introductory provisions.

  Part 2 of these Regulations provides for the establishment of the scheme.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision for the payment of grants by the
Department for the purposes specified in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 6 to the
Fisheries Act 2020.

  Regulations 4 and 5 set out the basis on which the Department may pay
grants.

  Regulations 6 to 8 lay down a procedure for applications for a grant.

  Regulation 9 provides that a person can seek a review of the decision for
the application for grant.

  Regulation 10 makes payment of a grant dependent on the Department being
satisfied as to the expenditure incurred, or to be incurred, and compliance
with any conditions of approval of the grant.

  Regulation 11 makes provision for the method of payment of the grant.

  Regulation 12 makes payment conditional on the applicant retaining the
relevant records and notifying the Department of any material change in
circumstances.

  Regulation 13 provides for the variation, suspension and revocation of any
approval of a grant.

  Regulation 14 provides that the Department may, by notice, require the
repayment of a grant if certain conditions are not satisfied and provides that
sums outstanding may be recovered as a civil debt.

  Regulation 15 confers an enforcement function on officers of the Department
for the enforcement of any offence or suspected offence committed in relation
to an application for a grant under this scheme (for example, an offence under
the Fraud Act  2006 (c. 35) ).

  Regulation 16 places an obligation on the Department to publish specified
information relating to any grants paid out under the scheme.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

