Title: The Adoption and Children (2022 Act) (Commencement No. 2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-03-26
Description: This Order is made by the Department of Health under section 160(1) of the Adoption and Children Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (the Act).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/30

## The Adoption and Children (2022 Act) (Commencement No. 2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Health And Personal Social Services

  Made   5th March 2024

      The Department of Health, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
160(1) of the Adoption and Children Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 , makes the
following Order.

### Citation

1

This Order may be cited as the Adoption and Children (2022 Act) (Commencement
No.2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024.

### Appointed day

2

2.1

The day appointed for the coming into operation of the following sections of
the Adoption and Children Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 is 1st April 2024–

2.1.a

section 116 (definition of family proceedings);

2.1.b

section 118 (duration of residence orders);

2.1.c

section 120 (ascertainment of children’s wishes);

2.1.d

section 143 (report on the operation of the Children Order); and

2.1.e

section 158 (review).

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 5 th  March
2024.         Eilis McDaniel   A senior officer of the   Department of Health

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This Order is made by the Department of Health under section 160(1) of the
Adoption and Children Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (the Act).

  It brings into operation on 1 st  April 2024, the following sections of the
Act.

  Section 116 amends Article 8(4) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order
1995 (the Children Order) to add proceedings for Female Genital Mutilation
Protection Orders in Northern Ireland, under Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the
Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 (other than paragraph 20 of that Schedule),
to the list of proceedings, which are “family proceedings” for the purpose of
the Children Order.

  Section 118 has the effect of amending, in relation to a child who is looked
after by an authority, within the meaning of the Children Order, Articles 9(6)
(restrictions on making Article 8 orders) and 179(10) (Effect and duration of
orders etc.) of that Order. The effect of these modifications is that a
residence order in respect of a child who is looked after by an authority will
last until the child has reached 18 years old unless the court considers it
should end earlier or another order is made discharging the residence order
prior to that date. Residence orders made in relation to children who are not
looked after by an authority, and other Article 8 orders (made in respect of
all children) remain unchanged, ceasing to have effect at the age of 16,
unless the court considers that the circumstances of the case are exceptional.

  Section 120 amends Articles 18 (General duty of authority to provide social
care for children in need, their families and others), to require an
authority, so far as is reasonably practicable and consistent with the welfare
of the child, to ascertain the child’s wishes and feelings in relation to the
provision of those services and to give due consideration (having regard to
the child’s age and understanding) to those wishes and feelings before
determining what (if any) services to provide. Section 120 also makes similar
amendment to Article 66 of the Children Order in relation to the authority’s
duty to investigate. Section 120 also amends Article 21 (provision of
accommodation for children: general) to provide that, in addition to
ascertaining the wishes of a child, an authority must also consider the
feelings of the child.

  Section 143 amends Article 181 of the Children Order to require a report on
the operation of the Children Order to be completed every 3 years instead of
annually. The first report must be prepared and laid before the Assembly
within the period of three years beginning on the date on which the Act
received Royal Assent.

  Section 158 places a duty on the Department to, at least once every three
years, prepare and publish a report on the implementation of each of the
provisions of Parts 1 and 2 of the Act and to lay a copy of the report before
the Assembly. The first report must be prepared and published within 3 years
of the date on which the Act is passed. The duty to report will cease to have
effect on the tenth anniversary of the date on which the Act is passed, but
only if all of the provisions in Parts 1 and 2 have been commenced and
included in a report.

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCEMENT REGULATIONS

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

      Provision Date of Commencement S.I. No.   Section 137 13 th  February
2023 S.R. 2023/12

