Title: The Social Security (State Pension Age Claimants: Closure of Tax Credits) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-06-10
Description: These Regulations make provision in relation to the abolition of tax credits for certain claimants who have reached the qualifying age for state pension credit (“the qualifying age”). They provide for claimants who are entitled to a working tax credit to move to universal credit with transitional protection and for claimants who are entitled to child tax credit to move to state pension credit with transitional protection. They also make provision consequential on these changes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/119

## The Social Security (State Pension Age Claimants: Closure of Tax Credits) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Social Security

  Made   24th May 2024

  Coming into operation   8th June 2024

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 122(1)(d), 131(1) and 171(1) and
(3) to (5) of, and paragraphs 3B(5)(b)(iii) and 7B(5)(b)(iii) of Schedule 5
to, the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992
, sections 5(1)(a) and (l) and 165(1) and (3) to (6) of the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , and now vested in it , sections
2(3)(b), 15(6)(a) and 19(1) to (3) of the State Pension Credit Act (Northern
Ireland) 2002  and Articles 48(1) and (2) and 101(1) and (4)(c) of, and
paragraph 4(1) and (3) of Schedule 1 to, and paragraphs 1(1) and 4(1)(a) and
(b), (2)(c) and (d) of Schedule 6 to, the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland)
Order 2015 .       The powers are exercisable by the Department for
Communities by virtue of Article 2 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland)
Order 2015 (Cessation of Transitory Provision) Order 2020 .
Regulation 5 is made with the consent of the Department of Finance .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (State Pension Age
Claimants: Closure of Tax Credits) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2024 and come into operation on 8th June 2024.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Closure of tax credits - migration of pension age claimants to universal credit

2

2.1

The Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

2.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the appropriate place insert—

      “ tax credit closure notice ” means a notice issued under Article 3A
(tax credit closure notice) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No.
32 and Savings and Transitional Provisions) Order 2019 ;

.

2.3

In regulation 45  (migration notice)—

2.3.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

2.3.a.3A

But where a migration notice is issued after cancellation of a previous
migration notice or after cancellation of a tax credit closure notice the
deadline day may be within such shorter period as the Department considers
appropriate.

; and

2.3.b

after paragraph (5) insert—

2.3.b.5A

In a case referred to in paragraph (5)(a) the Department may, instead of
cancelling the migration notice, treat that notice as if it were a tax credit
closure notice issued to that person and may treat the deadline day in the
migration notice as if it were the deadline day in a tax credit closure
notice.

.

2.4

In regulation 57  (circumstances in which transitional protection ceases)—

2.4.a

in paragraph (1) after “paragraph (2)” insert  “, (3A)” ;

2.4.b

in paragraph (2) after “assessment period”, where it is first mentioned,
insert  “other than an assessment period in relation to an award of universal
credit mentioned in regulation 61A(1) (waiver of upper age limit for claimants
migrated from tax credits)” ; and

2.4.c

after paragraph (3) insert—

2.4.c.3A

This paragraph applies to an assessment period in relation to an award of
universal credit mentioned in regulation 61A(1) (waiver of upper age limit for
claimants migrated from tax credits) which—

2.4.c.3A.a

is not one of the first 12 assessment periods; and

2.4.c.3A.b

is the assessment period after the third consecutive assessment period in
which the claimant’s earned income, (or, if the claimant is a member of a
couple the couple’s combined earned income) is less than the amount that a
person would be paid at the hourly rate set out in regulation 4 of the
National Minimum Wage Regulations 2015  for 16 hours a week converted to a
monthly amount by multiplying by 52 and dividing by 12.

.

2.5

After regulation 61  (protection for full-time students until course
completed) insert—

######### Waiver of upper age limit for claimants migrated from tax credits

2.5.61A

2.5.61A.1

Where a qualifying claim is made by—

2.5.61A.1.a

a single claimant who, at the time the migration notice is issued—

2.5.61A.1.a.i

has reached the qualifying age for state pension credit;

2.5.61A.1.a.ii

is entitled to an award of working tax credit; and

2.5.61A.1.a.iii

is not entitled to an award of state pension credit; or

2.5.61A.1.b

joint claimants both of whom satisfy the criteria in sub-paragraph (a)(i) to
(iii) at the time the migration notice is issued,

then, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the condition in Article 9(1)(b) of
the Order (claimant has not reached the qualifying age for state pension
credit) is not to apply for the purposes of determining entitlement to
universal credit in respect of the qualifying claim or any award made in
respect of that claim.

2.5.61A.2

The reference in paragraph (1) to a person who is entitled to an award of
working tax credit includes a person who meets the entitlement conditions for
both that credit and child tax credit.

2.5.61A.3

Paragraph (1) ceases to apply in respect of an award of universal credit
mentioned in paragraph (1) in an assessment period in which—

2.5.61A.3.a

a transitional element or transitional capital disregard would cease to apply
by virtue of regulation 57 (circumstances in which transitional protection
ceases) or regulation 58 (application of transitional protection to a
subsequent award); or

2.5.61A.3.b

a person who is entitled to an award of universal credit by virtue of
paragraph (1) makes a claim for state pension credit.

######### Deferral of retirement pension income

2.5.61B

2.5.61B.1

Where, at the time a migration notice is issued, the notified person—

2.5.61B.1.a

has reached the qualifying age for state pension credit;

2.5.61B.1.b

is entitled to an award of a tax credit; and

2.5.61B.1.c

has not made an application for retirement pension income to which they might
expect to be entitled,

regulation 74 (notional unearned income) of the Universal Credit Regulations
is not, subject to paragraph (2), to apply in relation to that person for the
purpose of calculating the amount of an award of universal credit (including
the indicative UC amount) until the assessment period following the first 12
assessment periods of an award made in respect of a claim by that person.

2.5.61B.2

This regulation ceases to apply in an assessment period in which a
transitional element or transitional capital disregard would cease to apply by
virtue of regulation 57 (circumstances in which transitional protection
ceases) or regulation 58 (application of transitional protection to a
subsequent award).

2.5.61B.3

In this regulation “ retirement pension income ” has the same meaning as in
regulation 67 (meaning of “ retirement pension income ”) of the Universal
Credit Regulations.

######### Exemption from the benefit cap

2.5.61C

Where a qualifying claim is made by a single claimant who has, or joint
claimants both of whom have, reached the qualifying age for state pension
credit, regulation 79 (circumstances where the benefit cap applies) of the
Universal Credit Regulations is not to apply for the purpose of calculating
the amount of an award of universal credit (including the indicative UC
amount).

.

### Closure of tax credits – transitional protection in state pension credit

3

3.1

The State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003  are amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

3.2

In regulation 1(2) (citation, commencement and interpretation) in the
appropriate place insert—

      “ tax credit closure notice ” means a notice issued under Article 3A
(tax credit closure notice) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No.
32 and Savings and Transitional Provisions) Order 2019;

.

3.3

In regulation 6(6)  (amount of the guarantee credit)—

3.3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (c) omit “or”;

3.3.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (d) for “.” substitute  “; or” ; and

3.3.c

after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

3.3.c.e

in accordance with Schedule 2B (transitional protection on closure of tax
credits).

.

3.4

In regulation 18 (notional income)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (1A)  for “and (1CB)” substitute  “, (1CB) and (5A)” ;

3.4.b

in paragraphs (1D)  and (2)  at the beginning insert  “Subject to paragraph
(5A),” ; and

3.4.c

after paragraph (5) insert—

3.4.c.5A

Where a person—

3.4.c.5A.a

makes a claim for state pension credit on or after the issue of a tax credit
closure notice and before the expiry of one month beginning with the deadline
day specified in that notice; and

3.4.c.5A.b

has not, at the time the notice is issued, made an application for retirement
pension income to which they might expect to be entitled,

paragraphs (1), (1D) and (2) are not to apply for a period beginning with the
first day on which the person is entitled to an award of state pension credit
as a consequence of that claim and ending after 52 weeks or, if sooner, on the
day the person ceases to be entitled to state pension credit.

.

3.5

After Schedule 2A  (additional amount applicable for claimants responsible for
a child or qualifying young person) insert—

  Transitional Protection on Closure of Tax Credits

Regulation 6(6)

########### Interpretation

3.5.1

In this Schedule—

      “ HMRC ” means His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;           “ indicative
SPC amount ” has the meaning given in paragraph 5;           “ migration day ”
in relation to a claimant means the day before the day specified in paragraph
(1) of Article 3B (saving to cease following issue of tax credit closure
notice) of the No. 32 Order;           “the No. 32 Order” means the Welfare
Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 32 and Savings and Transitional Provisions)
Order 2019;           “ tax credit ”, “ child tax credit ” and “ working tax
credit ” have the same meaning as in the Tax Credits Act 2002 .

########### Claimants eligible for protection

3.5.2

3.5.2.1

This Schedule applies where the claimant has been issued with a tax credit
closure notice and—

3.5.2.1.a

the claimant was entitled to an award of child tax credit on the migration
day; and

3.5.2.1.b

either—

3.5.2.1.b.i

the claimant was entitled to an award of state pension credit when the tax
credit closure notice was issued; or

3.5.2.1.b.ii

the claimant made a claim for state pension credit on or after the issue of
the tax credit closure notice and before the expiry of one month beginning
with the deadline day specified in that notice.

3.5.2.2

This Schedule does not apply where—

3.5.2.2.a

the claimant was a member of a couple for the purposes of the child tax credit
award when the tax credit closure notice was issued but is a single person or
a member of a different couple for the purposes of state pension credit on the
migration day; or

3.5.2.2.b

the claimant was a single person for the purposes of the child tax credit
award when the tax credit closure notice was issued but is a member of a
couple for the purposes of state pension credit on the migration day.

########### Transitional additional amount

3.5.3

An additional amount of the appropriate minimum guarantee (“the transitional
additional amount”) applies in accordance with regulation 6(6)(e) if the
weekly amount determined in accordance with paragraph 4 (representative weekly
amount of child tax credit), combined with the weekly amount of state pension
credit (if any) to which the claimant was entitled on the migration day, is
greater than the weekly amount determined in accordance with paragraph 5
(indicative SPC amount).

########### Representative weekly amount of child tax credit

3.5.4

3.5.4.1

To calculate the representative weekly amount of an award of child tax credit—

3.5.4.1.a

take the figure for the daily rate of the award on the migration day provided
by HMRC and calculated on the basis of the information as to the claimant’s
circumstances held by HMRC on that day; and

3.5.4.1.b

convert to a weekly figure by multiplying by 7.

3.5.4.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(a) “the daily rate” is—

3.5.4.2.a

in a case where section 13(1) of the Tax Credit Act 2002 (relevant income does
not exceed the income threshold or the claimant is entitled to a prescribed
social security benefit) applies, the maximum rate of each element to which
the claimant is entitled on the migration day divided by 365; and

3.5.4.2.b

in any other case, the rate that would be produced by applying regulations 6
to 9 of the Tax Credits (Income Thresholds and Determination of Rates)
Regulations 2002  as if the migration day were a relevant period of one day.

########### Indicative SPC amount

3.5.5

3.5.5.1

The indicative SPC amount is the weekly amount to which a claimant would be
entitled if an award of state pension credit were calculated in accordance
with the Act and these Regulations by reference to the claimant’s
circumstances on the migration day—

3.5.5.1.a

disregarding any amount of working tax credit to which the person may be
entitled on that day;

3.5.5.1.b

including an additional amount in accordance with Schedule 2A (additional
amount applicable for claimants responsible for a child or qualifying young
person); and

3.5.5.1.c

applying the assumptions in sub-paragraph (2).

3.5.5.2

The assumptions are—

3.5.5.2.a

the claimant is responsible for any child or qualifying young person in
respect of whom the individual element of child tax credit is payable;

3.5.5.2.b

the amount of the claimant’s earned income is the annual amount of any
employment income or trading income, as defined by regulation 4 or 6
respectively of the Tax Credits (Definition and Calculation of Income)
Regulations 2002 , by reference to which the representative weekly rate of
that tax credit is calculated for the purposes of paragraph 4(1) converted to
a net weekly amount by—

3.5.5.2.b.i

dividing by 52; and

3.5.5.2.b.ii

deducting such amount for income tax and national insurance contributions as
the Department considers appropriate.

3.5.5.3

If the claimant would not satisfy the condition in section 2(1) (guarantee
credit) of the Act because the claimant has income which exceeds the
appropriate minimum guarantee, the claimant is to be treated for the purposes
of calculating the indicative SPC amount as if they were entitled to a
guarantee credit of a nil amount.

########### Initial calculation of the transitional additional amount

3.5.6

The initial amount of the transitional additional amount is—

3.5.6.a

if the amount of the guarantee credit in the indicative SPC amount is greater
than nil, the amount by which the representative weekly amount of child tax
credit combined with the weekly amount of state pension credit (if any) to
which the claimant was entitled on the migration day, exceeds the weekly
amount of the indicative SPC amount;

3.5.6.b

if the amount of the guarantee credit in the indicative SPC amount is nil—

3.5.6.b.i

the sum of the representative weekly amount of child tax credit and the
amount, if any, by which the income deducted in the calculation of the
indicative SPC amount exceeds the amount of the appropriate minimum guarantee;
minus

3.5.6.b.ii

the amount of the maximum savings credit, but only if the indicative SPC
amount includes a savings credit or would do but for the claimant’s income
being such that the condition in section 3(2)(b) of the Act is not met.

########### Reduction of the transitional additional amount

3.5.7

3.5.7.1

Whenever there is a relevant increase after the first day on which the
transitional additional amount applies, the transitional additional amount is
to be reduced by an amount equal to that increase.

3.5.7.2

A relevant increase is an increase in the standard minimum guarantee or in any
additional amount prescribed under section 2(3) of the Act, including where
that additional amount is applied for the first time or reapplied following a
change of circumstances.

########### Circumstances in which the transitional additional amount ceases

3.5.8

3.5.8.1

A transitional additional amount is no longer applicable if—

3.5.8.1.a

the transitional additional amount is reduced to nil in accordance with
paragraph 7;

3.5.8.1.b

the claimant was a member of a couple and ceases to be a member of that couple
or becomes a member of a different couple;

3.5.8.1.c

the claimant was single and becomes a member of a couple; or

3.5.8.1.d

the claimant is no longer responsible for any child or qualifying young person
for whom they were responsible at the time the tax credit closure notice was
issued.

3.5.8.2

Where the claimant ceases to be entitled to state pension credit, the
transitional additional amount is not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), to apply
to a subsequent award to the claimant or, if the claimant is a member of a
couple, their partner.

3.5.8.3

Where an award (“the subsequent award”) is made to a person who moves from
Great Britain when they are entitled to an award of state pension credit that
includes a transitional additional amount then, provided their circumstances
are otherwise unchanged, the subsequent award is to include a transitional
additional amount calculated as if the subsequent award were a continuation of
the award made in Great Britain.

########### Effect of revision, appeal etc. of an award of a tax credit

3.5.9

3.5.9.1

Nothing in paragraph 4 or 5 requiring a calculation in relation to the
transitional additional amount to be made on the basis of information held by
HMRC on the migration day prevents the Department from revising or superseding
a decision in relation to a claim for, or an award of, state pension credit
where—

3.5.9.1.a

in the opinion of the Department, the information held on that day was
inaccurate or incomplete in some material respect because of—

3.5.9.1.a.i

a misrepresentation by a claimant;

3.5.9.1.a.ii

a failure to report information that a claimant was required to report where
that failure was advantageous to the claimant; or

3.5.9.1.a.iii

an official error; or

3.5.9.1.b

a decision has been made on or after the migration day on—

3.5.9.1.b.i

an application made before the migration day to revise a decision in relation
to an award of a tax credit (including the report of a change of
circumstances); or

3.5.9.1.b.ii

an appeal in relation to such an application.

3.5.9.2

In this paragraph “ official error ” means an error that—

3.5.9.2.a

was made by an officer of, or an employee of a body acting on behalf of, the
Department or HMRC; and

3.5.9.2.b

was not caused, or materially contributed to, by any person outside that body
or outside the Department or HMRC,

but excludes any error of law which is shown to have been such by a subsequent
decision of the Commissioner or of a court as defined in Article 27(7) of the
Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 .

.

### Supplementary provision relating to persons moving to state pension credit: time for claiming and part-week payments

4

4.1

Where a person who is not entitled to an award of state pension credit is
issued with a tax credit closure notice then, notwithstanding anything in
regulation 19(2) (time for claiming benefit) of the Social Security (Claims
and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987 , the prescribed times for
making a claim for state pension credit are as follows—

4.1.a

if the person is claiming in respect of a period that begins before the
deadline day specified in that notice, the first day of that period;

4.1.b

if the person is claiming in respect of a period that begins on the deadline
day, within 3 months beginning with the deadline day.

4.2

Where, by virtue of paragraph (1), state pension credit is awarded from a day
which is not the first day of a benefit week then, notwithstanding anything in
regulation 16A  (date of entitlement under an award of state pension credit
for the purpose of payability and effective date of change of rate) of those
Regulations, entitlement shall begin on the first day of the award and the
amount payable in respect of that part-week shall be determined by—

4.2.a

dividing by 7 the weekly amount which would be payable in respect of the full
week; and then

4.2.b

multiplying the resulting figure by the number of days in the part-week.

4.3

But paragraph (2) does not apply if the claimant’s entitlement to state
pension credit is unlikely to continue throughout the first full benefit week
that follows the part-week.

4.4

In this regulation—

      “ benefit week ” means—         where state pension credit is paid in
advance, the period of 7 days beginning with the day on which, in the
claimant’s case, that benefit would (if not for paragraph (2)) be payable;
where state pension credit is paid in arrears, the period of 7 days ending on
the day on which, in the claimant’s case, that benefit would (if not for
paragraph (2)) be payable; and                 “ tax credit closure notice ”
means a notice issued under Article 3A (tax credit closure notice) of the
Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 32 and Savings and Transitional
Provisions) Order 2019.

### Abolition of the two child limit for pension age housing benefit

5

In regulation 20 of the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the
qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006
(applicable amounts)—

5.a

in paragraph (1)(b) —

5.a.i

omit “up to two individuals who are either”; and

5.a.ii

omit “and”;

5.b

omit paragraphs (3) to (6) .

### Amendments regarding the deferral of State Pension

6

6.1

In regulation 4(1) of the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement
Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979  (days to be treated as days of
increment) at the end of sub-paragraph (b)(v)  for “and” substitute—

or

6.1.vi

universal credit; and

.

6.2

In regulation 3(1) of the Social Security (Deferral of Retirement Pensions)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (amount of retirement pension not
included in the calculation of the lump sum) after sub-paragraph (a)(v)
insert—

6.2.vi

universal credit under Part 2 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order
2015;

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 24th
May 2024       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities           The Department of Finance hereby consents to regulation
5 of the foregoing regulations       Sealed with the Official Seal of the
Department of Finance on 24th May 2024       (L.S.)   Barry Armstrong   A
senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision in relation to the abolition of tax credits
for certain claimants who have reached the qualifying age for state pension
credit (“the qualifying age”). They provide for claimants who are entitled to
a working tax credit to move to universal credit with transitional protection
and for claimants who are entitled to child tax credit to move to state
pension credit with transitional protection. They also make provision
consequential on these changes.

  Regulation 2 amends the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016.

  Regulation 2(3) allows a migration notice to be issued with a deadline of
less than 3 months where a previous notice has been cancelled. It also allows
a migration notice issued in error to be treated as a tax credit closure
notice.

  Regulation 2(4) provides for transitional protection to cease after an
initial period of 12 months in the case of single claimants or couples who
have reached the qualifying age and whose earnings have fallen below a
threshold for 3 consecutive months.

  Regulation 2(5) inserts a new regulation 61A providing for the waiver of the
upper age limit in universal credit in the case of a single person or couples
who have reached the qualifying age, are entitled to working tax credit, and
have been issued with a migration notice. The waiver ends (thereby ending
entitlement to universal credit) if the person claims state pension credit or
in any of the circumstances in which transitional protection would cease under
regulation 57.

  Regulation 2(5) also inserts a new regulation 61B which provides an
exemption from the notional income rule (treating a person as having income
they have not applied for) for persons who have deferred their state or non-
state pension. It also inserts a new regulation 61C exempting persons over the
qualifying age from the universal credit benefit cap.

  Regulation 3 contains amendments to the State Pension Credit Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2003 which provide for transitional protection in state
pension credit for persons issued with a tax credit closure notice.

  Regulation 3(4) amends regulation 18 of those Regulations to provide a 52
week exemption from the notional income rule for persons who have deferred
their state or non-state pension.

  Regulation 3(5) inserts a new Schedule 2B which provides for a new
transitional additional amount to be included in the guarantee element of a
state pension credit award where a person entitled to child tax credit is
issued with a tax credit closure notice and is either already entitled to
state pension credit or claims before the final deadline. It provides for the
calculation of the amount and the circumstances in which it reduces or ceases.

  Regulation 4 makes provision in relation to the time for claiming state
pension credit where a person is issued with a tax credit closure notice.
Where the claim is made on or before the deadline day the state pension credit
award starts on the day of the claim and the tax credit award ends on the day
before. When a claim is made within 3 months of the deadline day the award may
be backdated so it begins on that day.

  Regulation 5 makes changes to the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained
the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2006 so the applicable amount no longer includes a maximum of two amounts for
any children or young persons for whom the claimant is responsible or the
claimant’s partner is responsible and who are members of the same household.

  Regulation 6 amends the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement
Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979 (the “ 1979 Regulations ”) and
the Social Security (Deferral of Retirement Pensions) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2005 (the “ 2005 Regulations ”).

  If a person defers entitlement to a state pension, that person may become
entitled to a higher rate of state pension or, if they reached state pension
age before 6th April 2016, a lump sum payment (“deferral benefits”), which
accrue over time while the benefit remains unclaimed, provided the person is
not receiving certain Social Security benefits while deferring. These
Regulations amend regulation 4 of the 1979 Regulations and regulation 3 of the
2005 Regulations to provide that a single person does not accrue any deferral
benefits while that person is in receipt of universal credit. This brings the
provisions concerning when deferral benefits may be accrued by a single person
into line with those already applicable to couples.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the
requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

