Title: The Lay Magistrates (Eligibility) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order makes provision for criteria for the reappointment of lay magistrates who ceased to hold office before 10th March 2022 by virtue of section 4(11) of the Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (2015 c.9 (N.I.)), which required lay magistrates to retire at the age of 70.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/102

## The Lay Magistrates (Eligibility) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Justice

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   30th April 2024

  Coming into operation   1st May 2024

      The Department of Justice makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred on it by section 4(7) of the Justice Act (Northern Ireland)
2015  (the 2015 Act) read with section 121 of and paragraph 45 of Schedule 1
to the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 .           In
accordance with section 4(7) of the 2015 Act, the Department of Justice has
consulted with the Lady Chief Justice of Northern Ireland.

### Title and Commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Lay Magistrates (Eligibility) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on the day after the day it is
made.

### Eligibility of persons for reappointment as Lay Magistrates

2

A person may be reappointed as a lay magistrate ifâ€”

2.a

he or she ceased to hold the office of lay magistrate before 10th March 2022
by virtue of section 4(11) of the Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 2015;

2.b

he or she has not attained the age of 75;

2.c

he or she continues to meet the criteria for appointment as a lay magistrate
that are contained in the Lay Magistrates (Eligibility) (Northern Ireland)
Order 2004 ;

2.d

he or she was not removed as a lay magistrate as a result of disciplinary
proceedings and no disciplinary proceedings were pending at the start of his
or her retirement; and

2.e

he or she is prepared to undertake any training or continuing professional
development which is identified as being necessary or desirable.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 30th April
2024         Naomi Long   Minister of Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision for criteria for the reappointment of lay
magistrates who ceased to hold office before 10th March 2022 by virtue of
section 4(11) of the Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 ( 2015 c.9  (N.I.)),
which required lay magistrates to retire at the age of 70.

