Title: The Employment Rights (Increase of Limits) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order increases, from 6th April 2024, the limits applying to certain awards of industrial tribunals, the Fair Employment Tribunal or Labour Relations Agency statutory arbitration, and other amounts payable under employment legislation, as specified in the Schedule to the Order.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/86

## The Employment Rights (Increase of Limits) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Terms And Conditions Of Employment

  Made   27th March 2024

  Coming into operation   6th April 2024

      The Department for the Economy makes the following Order in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 33(2) and 39(3) of the Employment Relations
(Northern Ireland) Order 1999  and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Employment Rights (Increase of Limits) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2024 and comes into operation on 6th April 2024.

1.2

In this Order

      “ the 1995 Order ” means the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Northern
Ireland) Order 1995 ;           “ the 1996 Order ” means the Employment Rights
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 .

### Revocation

2

The Employment Rights (Increase of Limits) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023  is
revoked.

### Increase of limits

3

In the provisions set out in column 1 of the Schedule (generally described in
column 2), for the sums specified in column 3 substitute the sums specified in
column 4.

### Saving and transitional provision

4

4.1

The revocation in Article 2 and the substitutions made by Article 3 do not
have effect in relation to a case where the appropriate date falls before 6th
April 2024.

4.2

In this Article “ the appropriate date ” means -

4.2.a

in the case of an application made under Article 34(1) of the 1995 Order
(compensation for unjustifiable discipline by a trade union), the date of the
determination infringing the applicant’s right;

4.2.b

in the case of an application for an award of compensation under Article 40(2)
of the 1995 Order (compensation for expulsion from a trade union), the date of
the expulsion from the union;

4.2.c

in the case of a complaint presented under Article 44C(1) of the 1995 Order
(failure by an employer to consult with a trade union on training matters),
the date of the failure;

4.2.d

in the case of an award under paragraph 159(1) of Schedule 1A to the 1995
Order , where a worker has suffered a detriment that is the termination of the
worker’s contract, the date of the termination;

4.2.e

in the case of a complaint presented under Article 28(1)(a) of the 1996 Order
(refusal of employment on grounds related to union membership) or Article
28(1)(b) of that Order (refusal of service of employment agency on grounds
related to union membership), the date of the conduct to which the complaint
relates, as determined by Article 28(3) and (4) of that Order;

4.2.f

in the case of a guarantee payment to which an employee is entitled under
Article 60(1) of the 1996 Order (right to guarantee payment in respect of
workless day), the day in respect of which the payment is due;

4.2.g

in the case of an award of compensation under Article 72(1)(b) of the 1996
Order  by virtue of section 24(2) of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 ,
where a worker has suffered a detriment that is the termination of the
worker’s contract, the date of the termination;

4.2.h

in the case of an award under Article 77E(2)(b) of the 1996 Order (award to
worker in respect of offer made by employer in contravention of Article 77A or
77B of that Order , the date of the offer;

4.2.i

in the case of an award under Article 112I(1)(b) of the 1996 Order  (award of
compensation relating to an application for contract variation), the date of
the failure in relation to the application or of the decision to reject the
application;

4.2.j

in the case of an award under Article 146(4) or (5) of the 1996 Order  (award
in relation to unfair dismissal), the effective date of termination, as
defined by Article 129 of that Order ;

4.2.k

in the case of an award under Article 151(1) or (3) of the 1996 Order , where
an employer has failed to comply fully with the terms of an order for
reinstatement or re-engagement or has failed to reinstate or re-engage the
complainant in accordance with such an order, the date by which the order for
reinstatement (specified under Article 148(2)(c) of that Order) or re-
engagement (specified under Article 149(2)(f) of that Order) should have been
complied with;

4.2.l

in the case of entitlement to a redundancy payment by virtue of Article
170(1)(a) of the 1996 Order (dismissal by reason of redundancy), the relevant
date, as defined by Article 180 of that Order ;

4.2.m

in the case of entitlement to a redundancy payment by virtue of Article
170(1)(b) of the 1996 Order (eligibility for a redundancy payment by reason of
being laid off or kept on short-time), the relevant date, as defined by
Article 188 of that Order;

4.2.n

in the case of entitlement to a payment under Article 227 of the 1996 Order
(payments by the Department), the appropriate date, as defined by Article 230
of that Order;

4.2.o

in the case of a complaint presented under Article 13(1) of the Employment
Relations (Northern Ireland) Order 1999  (failure or threatened failure to
allow the worker to be accompanied at the disciplinary or grievance hearing,
to allow the companion to address the hearing or confer with the worker, or to
postpone the hearing), the date of the failure or threat;

4.2.p

in the case of a complaint presented under regulation 15 of the Flexible
Working (Procedural Requirements) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003
(failure or threatened failure to allow an employee to be accompanied at a
meeting, to allow the companion to address the meeting or confer with the
employee, or to postpone the meeting), the date of the failure or threat;

4.2.q

in the case of an award made under Article 27(2) of the Employment (Northern
Ireland) Order 2003  (failure to give statement of employment particulars
etc.), the date the proceedings to which that Article applies were begun;

4.2.r

in the case of an increase in an award in pursuance of Article 27(3) of the
Employment (Northern Ireland) Order 2003, the date the proceedings to which
that Article applies were begun;

4.2.s

in the case of an award made under Article 28(2) of the Employment (Northern
Ireland) Order 2003 (failure to give statement of employment particulars
etc.), the date the proceedings to which that Article applies were begun;

4.2.t

in the case of an increase in an award in pursuance of Article 28(3) of the
Employment (Northern Ireland) Order 2003, the date the proceedings to which
that Article applies were begun.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 27th
March 2024.         Conor Murphy   Minister for the Economy

  INCREASE OF LIMITS

Article 3

      Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4 Relevant statutory provision Subject
of provision Old Limit New Limit   1. Article 40(6) of the 1995 Order Minimum
amount of compensation where individual expelled from trade union in
contravention of Article 38 of the 1995 Order and not re-admitted to the union
by the date of application to the tribunal. £12,206 £13,292 2. Article 23(1)
of the 1996 Order Maximum amount of “a week’s pay” for the purpose of
calculating a redundancy payment or various awards, including the basic or
additional award of compensation for unfair dismissal. £669 £729 3. Article
63(1) of the 1996 Order Limit on amount of guarantee payment payable to an
employee in respect of any day. £35.00 £38.00 4. Article 77E(3) of the 1996
Order Amount of award for unlawful inducement relating to trade union
membership or activities, or for unlawful inducement relating to collective
bargaining. £5,382 £5,861 5. Article 154(1) of the 1996 Order Minimum amount
of basic award of compensation where dismissal is unfair by virtue of Article
132(1)(a) and (b), 132A(1)(d)  , 133(1), 134 or 136(1) of the 1996 Order.
£8,139 £8,863 6. Article 158(1) of the 1996 Order Limit on amount of
compensatory award for unfair dismissal. £105,915 £115,341 7. Article
231(1)(a) and (b) of the 1996 Order Limit on amount in respect of any one week
payable to an employee in respect of a debt to which Part XIV of the 1996
Order applies and which is referable to a period of time. £669 £729

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order increases, from 6th April 2024, the limits applying to certain
awards of industrial tribunals, the Fair Employment Tribunal or Labour
Relations Agency statutory arbitration, and other amounts payable under
employment legislation, as specified in the Schedule to the Order.

  Under Article 33(2) of the Employment Relations (Northern Ireland) Order
1999 (“ the 1999 Order ”), if the retail prices index (RPI) for September of a
year is higher (or lower) than the index for the previous September, the
Department is required to change, by Order, the sums specified in the
provisions mentioned in Article 33(1) by the percentage of the increase or
decrease (rounded up or down as specified in Article 33(3) of the 1999 Order).
The increases made by this Order reflect the increase in the RPI of 8.9% from
September 2022 to September 2023.

  The increases apply where the event giving rise to the entitlement to
compensation or other payments occurs on or after 6th April 2024. Article 2 of
the Order revokes the Employment Rights (Increase of Limits) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2023 ( S.R. 2023 No. 36 ) (“ the 2023 Order ”). Article 4 of the
Order preserves the sums previously in operation under the 2023 Order in
relation to cases where the relevant event was before 6th April 2024.

  An impact assessment is not required because Article 33(2) of the 1999 Order
provides for indexation according to a pre-determined formula linked to RPI.

