Title: The Service Address (Rectification of Register) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-07-02
Description: These Regulations make provision about the registrar’s powers to change the registered service address of company directors, secretaries and persons with significant control (“relevant persons”), where the registrar is not satisfied that the address meets the requirements of section 1141(1) and (2) of the Companies Act 2006 (c. 46). The Regulations allow the registrar to act on the registrar’s own motion or on application.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/235

## The Service Address (Rectification of Register) Regulations 2024

    COMPANIES

  Made   29th February 2024

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1097B and 1292(1) of the Companies Act 2006 .       In
accordance with sections 1097B(13) and 1290 of the Companies Act 2006, a draft
of these Regulations has been laid before Parliament and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Service Address (Rectification of
Register) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force when section 106 (rectification of register:
service addresses) of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023
comes fully into force.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the 2006 Act ” means the Companies Act 2006; “ applicable notice requirement
” has the meaning given in regulation 6(4); “ default address ” means an
address nominated by the registrar under regulation 3; “ relevant company ”
has the meaning given in regulation 4(2)(e); “ service address requirements ”
means the requirements of section 1141(1) and (2) of the 2006 Act.

### Default address

#### Nomination of default address

3

3.1

The registrar must nominate one or more addresses to be default addresses for
the purposes of these Regulations (which need not meet the service address
requirements).

3.2

The registrar may only nominate an address under paragraph (1) if the address
is—

3.2.a

one at which the registrar carries out functions, or

3.2.b

a PO box.

3.3

The registrar must perform the duty in paragraph (1) by means of registrar’s
rules .

### Application to registrar

#### Application for address to be changed

4

4.1

Any person may apply to the registrar to change the registered service address
of a relevant person  in accordance with these Regulations if the applicant
thinks that the address does not meet the service address requirements.

4.2

The application must—

4.2.a

state the applicant’s name, address and email address;

4.2.b

state the name of the relevant person;

4.2.c

where the relevant person is a firm , state the person’s registered number, if
any;

4.2.d

state what the registered service address the subject of the application is;

4.2.e

state the name and registered number of the company in relation to which the
registered service address the subject of the application has been registered
(the “relevant company”);

4.2.f

state where the registered service address the subject of the application is
in the register in respect of the relevant company, and

4.2.g

explain why the applicant thinks that the registered service address does not
meet the service address requirements.

4.3

The application must be accompanied by any information that the applicant
wishes to rely on in support of the application.

#### Notification of outcome of application

5

5.1

The registrar must give the applicant a written notice stating the outcome of
any application under  regulation 4 .

5.2

If the application is unsuccessful, the notice must explain that the applicant
has a right to appeal under  regulation 14 .

### Change of address to default address with prior notice

#### Notice that registrar intends to change address to default address

6

6.1

Where the registrar is satisfied that a relevant person’s registered service
address does not meet the service address requirements, and  regulation 10
(power to change address to default address without notice) does not apply,
the registrar must give the relevant person and the relevant company a written
notice in accordance with  this regulation .

6.2

The notice must state that the registrar intends to change the relevant
person’s registered service address to a default address unless within the
specified period—

6.2.a

notice is given by the relevant company of a new service address in accordance
with the applicable notice requirement, or

6.2.b

the relevant person or the relevant company objects to the registered service
address being changed and provides evidence to the satisfaction of the
registrar that the relevant person’s registered service address meets the
service address requirements.

6.3

The notice must also state where the registered service address which the
registrar intends to change is in the register.

6.4

In paragraph (2)(a) the “ applicable notice requirement ” means—

6.4.a

in relation to a notice given by the relevant company before section 51 of the
Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 is fully brought into
force, section 167, 167D, 276, 279D, 790VA or 790ZA of the 2006 Act, as
applicable;

6.4.b

in relation to a notice given by the relevant company on or after section 51
of Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 is fully brought into
force, section 167H, 279H or 790LD of the 2006 Act, as applicable.

6.5

The notice must be accompanied by a description of any information on which
the registrar relied in deciding to act under this regulation.

6.6

A notice may be given under  this regulation  on the registrar’s own motion or
following an application under  regulation 4 .

6.7

If it is given following an application under  regulation 4 , the notice must
also state that fact.

6.8

In this Part “ the specified period ” means the period of 14 days beginning
with the day on which a notice is given under paragraph (1) (if notice is
given to the relevant person and the relevant company on different days, the
period begins on the day on which the later notice is given).

#### Registrar duty to change address to default address

7

7.1

Where the registrar has given a notice under  regulation 6  the registrar must
change the relevant person’s registered service address to a default address
if—

7.1.a

within the specified period, no notice is given by the relevant company of a
new service address in accordance with the applicable notice requirement, and

7.1.b

after the end of the specified period, the registrar remains satisfied that
the relevant person’s registered service address does not meet the service
address requirements.

7.2

The fact that a relevant person and relevant company failed, within the
specified period, to object to the change of address may be taken by the
registrar as sufficient evidence of the fact that the relevant person’s
registered service address does not meet the service address requirements
(without further ado).

7.3

The change in the relevant person’s registered service address is effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the relevant company had given notice under the
applicable notice requirement.

#### Notice of change of address under 

8

8.1

If the registrar changes the address of a relevant person’s registered service
address under  regulation 7 , the registrar must give the relevant person and
the relevant company a written notice of the change.

8.2

The notice must—

8.2.a

state the new address;

8.2.b

state where in the register the new address has been registered;

8.2.c

state the date on which the address was changed;

8.2.d

explain why the address was changed;

8.2.e

explain there is a right of appeal for the relevant company under  regulation
13 , and

8.2.f

explain the effect of  regulations 18  and  19 .

8.3

The notice must be accompanied by a description of any information on which
the registrar relied in deciding to change the address.

#### Notice of decision not to change address under 

9

If the registrar has given a relevant person and a relevant company a notice
under  regulation 6  and decides not to change the person’s registered service
address, the registrar must give the person and the relevant company a written
notice of that fact.

### Change of address to default address without prior notice

#### Power to change address to default address without notice

10

10.1

This regulation applies where the registrar—

10.1.a

is not satisfied that a relevant person’s registered service address meets the
service address requirements, and

10.1.b

does not consider it necessary to provide a period for objections to be made
to the relevant person’s registered service address being changed to a default
address.

10.2

The registrar may change the relevant person’s registered service address.

10.3

The change in the relevant person’s registered service address is effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the relevant company had given notice under the
applicable notice requirement.

10.4

The registrar may act under  this regulation  on the registrar’s own motion or
following an application under  regulation 4 .

#### Notice of change of address under 

11

11.1

If the registrar changes the address of a relevant person’s registered service
address under  regulation 10 , the registrar must give the relevant person and
the relevant company a written notice of the change.

11.2

The notice must—

11.2.a

state the new address;

11.2.b

state where in the register the new address has been registered;

11.2.c

state the date on which the address was changed;

11.2.d

explain why the address was changed;

11.2.e

where the change followed an application under  regulation 4 , state that
fact;

11.2.f

explain there is a right of appeal for the relevant company under  regulation
13 , and

11.2.g

explain the effect of  regulations 18  and  19 .

11.3

The notice must be accompanied by a description of any information on which
the registrar relied in deciding to change the address.

### Change of address from one default address to another default address

#### Change of default address

12

12.1

This regulation applies where—

12.1.a

the registrar has changed a relevant person’s registered service address under
regulation 7  or  10 , and

12.1.b

the relevant company has not since delivered a notice to the registrar in
accordance with the applicable notice requirement.

12.2

The registrar may change the address of the relevant person’s registered
service address to another default address.

12.3

The change in the relevant person’s registered service address is effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the relevant company had given notice under the
applicable notice requirement.

12.4

The registrar must give the relevant person and the relevant company notice of
the change.

12.5

The notice must state—

12.5.a

the new address;

12.5.b

where in the register the new address has been registered, and

12.5.c

the date on which the address was changed.

### Appeals to the court

#### Appeal by relevant company

13

13.1

If the registrar changes a relevant person’s registered service address under
regulation 7  or  10  the relevant company may appeal to the court.

13.2

The appeal must be brought within the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the person and the relevant company were given notice of the change
under  regulation 8  or  11  (where notice is given to the relevant person and
the relevant company on different days the period begins on the later of those
days).

13.3

In determining an appeal the court may take into account evidence that was not
available to the registrar.

#### Appeal by applicant

14

14.1

A person who applies to the registrar under  regulation 4  to change a
relevant person’s registered service address may appeal to the court if the
application is unsuccessful.

14.2

The appeal must be brought within the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the applicant was given the notice of the outcome of the application
under  regulation 5 .

### Effect of change to default address

#### Valid service at previous address

15

Where the registrar changes a relevant person’s registered service address to
a default address under these Regulations (including where the registrar has
changed the address from one default address to another default address), a
person may validly serve any document on the relevant person at the old
address during the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which it was
changed.

#### Collection and destruction of documents

16

16.1

If a relevant person’s registered service address is changed to a default
address under these Regulations (including where it is changed from one
default address to another default address) the registrar must facilitate the
collection by the relevant person of any documents delivered to the person at
that address.

16.2

But the registrar may destroy any document delivered to the person at that
address if it is not collected within the period of 6 months beginning with
the day on which it is delivered.

#### No duty on registrar to forward documents

17

Where a relevant person’s service address has been changed from a default
address to a new address following registration of a notice delivered under
the applicable notice requirement, the registrar is not under a duty to
forward any documents delivered to the person at the default address to the
new address.

### Requirement to move registered service address from default address

#### Duty to move address from default address within compliance period

18

18.1

A relevant person that has had their registered service address changed to a
default address under regulation 7 or 10 must take all reasonable steps to
ensure that notice is given by the relevant company under the applicable
notice requirement before the end of the compliance period.

18.2

The “ compliance period ” means the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the relevant person was given notice of the change under regulation 8
or 11, unless an appeal is brought within that period.

18.3

If an appeal is brought within that period, the “compliance period” is
whichever of the following ends later—

18.3.a

the period mentioned in paragraph (2), and

18.3.b

the period beginning with the day on which the change is made and ending with—

18.3.b.i

the end of the period of 7 days beginning with the day on which the appeal is
finally determined in the registrar’s favour, or

18.3.b.ii

the day on which the appeal is withdrawn.

#### Offence of failure to comply with 

19

19.1

If a relevant person fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
regulation 18  an offence is committed by—

19.1.a

the relevant person, and

19.1.b

where the person is a firm, every officer of the firm that is in default .

19.2

For the purposes of this regulation’s application to relevant persons which
are companies, a shadow director is treated as a director.

19.3

A person guilty of an offence under this regulation is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

Kevin Hollinrake Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for
Business and Trade 29th February 2024

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision about the registrar’s powers to change the
registered service address of company directors, secretaries and persons with
significant control (“ relevant persons ”), where the registrar is not
satisfied that the address meets the requirements of section 1141(1) and (2)
of the Companies Act  2006 (c. 46) . The Regulations allow the registrar to
act on the registrar’s own motion or on application.

  Part 2 requires the registrar to nominate a default address for the purposes
of these Regulations.

  Part 3 provides for applications to be made to the registrar to change a
relevant person’s registered service address and the notice to be given about
the application.

  Part 4 provides for the registrar to change a registered service address
after having given prior notice to the relevant person and the relevant
company.

  Part 5 provides for the registrar to change a registered service address
without giving prior notice.

  Part 6 provides for the registrar to be able to change a registered service
address from one default address to another default address.

  Part 7 provides for appeals against the registrar’s decisions under these
Regulations.

  Part 8 provides for the effect of changing a relevant person’s registered
service address to a default address nominated by the registrar.

  Part 9 provides that a relevant person who has had their registered service
address changed to a default address commits an offence if they do not take
all reasonable steps to ensure that notice is given by the relevant company to
change the address to a new address within the compliance period.

  No impact assessment has been prepared in connection with these Regulations.

