Title: The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-09-18
Description: These Regulations require the Secretary of State to pay a winter fuel payment to a person who, in the week beginning on the third Monday in September in any year, has reached pensionable age, andis ordinarily resident in England and Wales and entitled to income support, income-based jobseeker’s allowance, state pension credit, income-related employment and support allowance or universal credit (“relevant benefits”) or an award of child tax credit or working tax credit of not less than £26 in respect of the tax year 2024-25; oris habitually resident in one of the countries listed in Schedule 1 and demonstrates an entitlement to a benefit in that country which is equivalent to a relevant benefit, if that person is covered by the Withdrawal Agreement or one of the other Agreements listed in regulation 2(3)(b) and they are able to demonstrate a genuine and sufficient link to the United Kingdom.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/869

## The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2024

    SOCIAL SECURITY

  Made   at 9.00 a.m. on 22nd August 2024

  Laid before Parliament   at 2.30 p.m. on 22nd August 2024

  Coming into force   16th September 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 138(2) and 175(1) and (3) to (5) of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , sections 5(1)(a) and (i) and 189(1) and
(4) to (6) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 , sections 16(1) and
79(1) and (4) of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to, the Social Security Act
1998  and section 71(1)(a), (2)(a), (3) and (5) of the Scotland Act 2016 .
In accordance with section 173(1)(a) of the Social Security Administration Act
1992, it appears to the Secretary of State that by reason of the urgency of
this matter it is inexpedient to refer the proposals in respect of these
Regulations to the Social Security Advisory Committee.

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment
Regulations 2024 and come into force on 16th September 2024.

1.2

Subject to paragraph (3), these Regulations extend to England and Wales only.

1.3

Regulations 1 and 7(1), and Schedule 2 (revocations), also extend to Scotland.

1.4

In these Regulations—

      “ child tax credit” and “working tax credit ” have the same meanings as
in the Tax Credits Act 2002 ;           “ couple ” means—         two people
who are married to, or civil partners of, each other and are members of the
same household; or           two people who are not married to, or civil
partners of, each other but are living together as if they were a married
couple or civil partners;                 “ polygamous marriage ” means any
marriage which took place under the laws of a country which permits polygamy
where—         any member of the marriage is for the time being married to
more than one person; and           all the members of the marriage are
members of the same household;                 “ qualifying week ” means in
respect of any year the week beginning on the third Monday in the September of
that year.

### Entitlement to a Winter Fuel Payment

2

2.1

Subject to regulation 4, the Secretary of State must pay a winter fuel payment
out of the social fund to a person where—

2.1.a

that person has reached pensionable age in or before the qualifying week; and

2.1.b

in respect of any day falling within the qualifying week, paragraph (2) or (3)
applies to the person.

2.2

This paragraph applies if the person is—

2.2.a

ordinarily resident in England and Wales; and

2.2.b

entitled to—

2.2.b.i

a relevant benefit; or

2.2.b.ii

an award of child tax credit or working tax credit of not less than £26 in
respect of the tax year 2024-25.

2.3

This paragraph applies if the person is—

2.3.a

habitually resident in any of the countries listed in Schedule 1;

2.3.b

covered by—

2.3.b.i

Title III of Part 2 of the withdrawal agreement, as set out at Article 30 of
that agreement ;

2.3.b.ii

Title III of Part 2 of the EEA EFTA separation agreement, as set out at
Article 29 of that agreement ;

2.3.b.iii

Part Three of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement, as set out at Article 25
of that agreement ; or

2.3.b.iv

the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland signed at
Dublin on 1st February 2019, as set out in Article 2 of that Convention ; and

2.3.c

able to demonstrate—

2.3.c.i

entitlement to a benefit payable in the country in which the person is
habitually resident that is equivalent to a relevant benefit; and

2.3.c.ii

a genuine and sufficient link to the United Kingdom.

2.4

In this regulation—

      “ pensionable age ” has the meaning given by the rules in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 4 to the Pensions Act  1995 (c. 26) ;           “ relevant benefit ”
means—         income support under Part 7 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992;           an income-based jobseeker’s
allowance under the Jobseekers Act 1995 ;           state pension credit under
the State Pension Credit Act 2002 ;           an income-related employment and
support allowance under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 ;
universal credit under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 ;
“ withdrawal agreement”, “EEA EFTA separation agreement” and “Swiss citizens’
rights agreement ” have the same meanings as in section 39(1) of the European
Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020 .

2.5

The reference in paragraph (2)(b) and (3)(c)(i) to a person being entitled to
a relevant benefit or tax credit includes where the person is a member of a
couple or polygamous marriage and the other member of the couple or another
member of that marriage is entitled to the benefit or tax credit.

### Amount of a Winter Fuel Payment

3

The amount of a winter fuel payment is as follows—

3.a

if the person has reached the age of 80 in or before the qualifying week,
£300;

3.b

if the person has not reached the age of 80 in or before the qualifying week
but they are a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage and the other
member of the couple or another member of that marriage has reached that age
in or before that week, £300; or

3.c

in any other case, £200.

### Persons not entitled to a Winter Fuel Payment

4

4.1

Regulation 2 does not apply in respect of a person who—

4.1.a

throughout the qualifying week, is—

4.1.a.i

one member of a couple where the Secretary of State has paid a winter fuel
payment in respect of the qualifying week to the other member of that couple;

4.1.a.ii

a member of a polygamous marriage where the Secretary of State has paid a
winter fuel payment in respect of the qualifying week to another member of
that marriage;

4.1.a.iii

receiving free in-patient treatment and has been receiving free in-patient
treatment for a period of at least 52 weeks ending immediately before the
qualifying week;

4.1.a.iv

detained in custody under a sentence imposed by a court; or

4.1.a.v

in residential care and has been in residential care for a period of at least
12 weeks ending immediately before the qualifying week;

4.1.b

having been ordinarily resident in England and Wales on a day falling within
the qualifying week, becomes ordinarily resident in Scotland or Northern
Ireland by the last day of that week; or

4.1.c

subject to paragraph (2), has not made a claim for a winter fuel payment on or
before 31st March following the qualifying week in respect of the winter
following that week.

4.2

Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply where—

4.2.a

a payment has been made by virtue of regulation 5(1) in respect of the winter
following the qualifying week; or

4.2.b

regulation 5(2) applies.

4.3

In this regulation—

      “ care home ” in England, has the meaning assigned to it by section 3 of
the Care Standards Act 2000 , and in Wales, means a care home service within
the meaning of Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales)
Act 2016  which is provided wholly or mainly to persons aged 18 or over;
“ free in-patient treatment ” is to be construed in accordance with regulation
2(4) and (5) of the Social Security (Hospital In-Patients) Regulations 2005 ;
“ independent hospital ” means—         in England, a hospital as defined by
section 275(1) of the National Health Service Act 2006  that is not a health
service hospital as defined by that section;           in Wales, has the
meaning assigned to it by section 2 of the Care Standards Act 2000 ;
in relation to Scotland, means an independent health care service as defined
in section 10F(1)(a) and (b) and (2) of the National Health Service (Scotland)
Act 1978 ;                 “ residential care ” means, disregarding any period
of temporary absence, a person residing in—         a care home;           an
independent hospital; or           accommodation provided under section 3(1)
of the Polish Resettlement Act 1947 .

### Making a Winter Fuel Payment without a claim

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may, on or before the 31st March following the
qualifying week, pay a winter fuel payment in respect of the winter following
the qualifying week to a person who (disregarding regulation 4(1)(c)) appears
to the Secretary of State to be entitled to a payment under regulation 2.

5.2

Where a person becomes entitled to state pension credit , universal credit ,
child tax credit or working tax credit in respect of any day falling within
the qualifying week by virtue of a decision made after that week by the
Secretary of State, the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,
the First-tier Tribunal or the Upper Tribunal, the Secretary of State may pay
a winter fuel payment to that person in respect of the winter following the
qualifying week if (disregarding regulation 4(1)(c)) it appears to the
Secretary of State that person is entitled to a payment under regulation 2.

5.3

Subject to paragraph (4), for the purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2), official
records held by the Secretary of State as to a person's circumstances are
sufficient evidence for the purpose of deciding a person’s entitlement to a
winter fuel payment and its amount.

5.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply so as to exclude the revision of a decision under
section 9 of the Social Security Act 1998 (revision of decisions)  or the
supersession of a decision under section 10 of that Act (decisions superseding
earlier decisions) or the consideration of fresh evidence in connection with
the revision or supersession of a decision.

### Consequential amendments to the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations 1987

6

6.1

The Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations 1987  are amended as
follows.

6.2

In regulation 4(6A)(a)(ii) (making a claim for benefit)  for “regulation
3(1)(b) of the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2000” substitute
“regulation 4(1)(c) of the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2024” .

6.3

Omit regulation 36(2) (payment to partner as alternative payee) .

### Revocations and expiry

7

7.1

The Regulations   and Orders  specified in the first column of the table in
Schedule 2 are revoked to the extent specified in the third column of that
table.

7.2

The following provisions cease to have effect on 1st April 2025—

7.2.a

in regulation 2—

7.2.a.i

in paragraph (1)(b), the words “or (3)”;

7.2.a.ii

paragraph (3);

7.2.a.iii

in paragraph (4), the definition of “withdrawal agreement”, “EEA EFTA
separation agreement” and “Swiss citizens’ rights agreement”; and

7.2.a.iv

in paragraph (5), the words “and (3)(c)(i)”; and

7.2.b

Schedule 1.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State       Emma Reynolds
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Work and Pensions
at 9.00 a.m. on 22nd August 2024

## Schedules

  Countries

Regulation 2(3)(a)

      Republic of Austria Republic of Latvia   Kingdom of Belgium the
Principality of Liechtenstein Republic of Bulgaria Republic of Lithuania
Republic of Croatia Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Czech Republic Kingdom of the
Netherlands Kingdom of Denmark Kingdom of Norway Republic of Estonia Republic
of Poland Republic of Finland Romania Federal Republic of Germany Slovak
Republic Hungary Republic of Slovenia Iceland Kingdom of Sweden Republic of
Ireland Swiss Confederation Italian Republic

Regulations   and Orders  revoked

Regulation 7(1)

Regulations   and Orders  revoked Reference Extent of revocation The Social
Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2000 S.I. 2000/729 The whole regulations
The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment and Maternity and Funeral Expenses
(General) Amendment Regulations 2000 S.I. 2000/2229 Regulation 2 The Social
Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment) Regulations 2000 S.I. 2000/2864 The whole
regulations The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Temporary Increase)
Regulations 2000 S.I. 2000/2997 The whole regulations The Social Fund Winter
Fuel Payment (Amendment) Regulations 2001 S.I. 2001/3375 The whole regulations
The Social Security (Claims and Payments and Miscellaneous Amendment) (No. 3)
Regulations 2002 S.I. 2002/2660 Regulation 3 The Social Fund Winter Fuel
Payment (Amendment) Regulations 2003 S.I. 2003/1737 The whole regulations The
Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2003 S.I.
2003/2192 The whole regulations The Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment
(Amendment) Regulations 2004 S.I. 2004/2154 The whole regulations The Social
Security (Care Homes and Independent Hospitals) Regulations 2005 S.I.
2005/2687 Regulation 8 The Civil Partnership (Pensions, Social Security and
Child Support) (Consequential, etc Provisions) Order 2005 S.I. 2005/2877
Paragraph 32   of Schedule 3 The Social Security (Hospital In-Patients)
Regulations 2005 S.I. 2005/3360 Regulation 7 The Employment and Support
Allowance (Consequential Provisions) (No. 2) Regulations 2008 S.I. 2008/1554
Regulation 7 The Social Security (Equalisation of State Pension Age)
Regulations 2009 S.I. 2009/1488 Regulations 18 to 21 The Health and Social
Care Act 2008 (Miscellaneous Consequential Amendments) Order 2010 S.I.
2010/1881   Article 10   The Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
(Consequential Modifications of Enactments) Order 2011 S.I. 2011/2581
Paragraph 29 of Schedule 2 The Social Security (Miscellaneous Amendments)
Regulations 2012 S.I. 2012/757 Regulation 18 The Social Fund Winter Fuel
Payment (Amendment) Regulations 2013 S.I. 2013/1509 The whole regulations The
Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013 (Consequential Provisions) Order 2014
S.I. 2014/107 Paragraph 28 of Schedule 1 The Marriage and Civil Partnership
(Scotland) Act 2014 and Civil Partnership Act 2004 (Consequential Provisions
and Modifications) Order 2014 S.I. 2014/3229 Paragraph 19 of Schedule 6 The
Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment (Amendment) Regulations 2014 S.I. 2014/3270
The whole regulations The Social Security (Miscellaneous Amendments)
Regulations 2015 S.I. 2015/67 Regulation 4 The Social Security and Child
Support (Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016
(Consequential Provision) Regulations 2018 S.I. 2018/228 Regulation 6 The
Social Security (Updating of EU References) (Amendment) Regulations 2018 S.I.
2018/1084 Paragraph 9 of the Schedule The Civil Partnership (Opposite-Sex
Couples) Regulations 2019 S.I. 2019/1458 Paragraph 58 of Schedule 3 The Social
Security (Reciprocal Agreements) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2021 S.I. 2021/811 Regulation 2 The Social Fund Winter Fuel
Payment (Temporary Increase) Regulations 2023 S.I. 2023/549 The whole
regulations

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations require the Secretary of State to pay a winter fuel
payment to a person who, in the week beginning on the third Monday in
September in any year, has reached pensionable age, and         is ordinarily
resident in England and Wales and entitled to income support, income-based
jobseeker’s allowance, state pension credit, income-related employment and
support allowance or universal credit (“relevant benefits”) or an award of
child tax credit or working tax credit of not less than £26 in respect of the
tax year 2024-25; or           is habitually resident in one of the countries
listed in Schedule 1 and demonstrates an entitlement to a benefit in that
country which is equivalent to a relevant benefit, if that person is covered
by the Withdrawal Agreement or one of the other Agreements listed in
regulation 2(3)(b) and they are able to demonstrate a genuine and sufficient
link to the United Kingdom.

  A person is not entitled to a winter fuel payment where the person:
is a member of a couple where the Secretary of State has paid a winter fuel
payment in respect of the qualifying week to the other member of the couple;
is a member of a polygamous marriage where the Secretary of State has paid a
winter fuel payment in respect of the qualifying week to another member of
that marriage;           has been in hospital getting free treatment for more
than a year;           is in prison serving a sentence throughout the
qualifying week;           is in residential care throughout the qualifying
week and the period of 12 weeks immediately before that week; or           has
not made a claim for a winter fuel payment by 31 March following the
qualifying week.

  There are exceptions to the requirement to make a claim for a winter fuel
payment. The first exception applies if the Secretary of State has paid a
winter fuel payment to a person who appears to be eligible (based on official
records) before 31 March.

  The second exception applies if a person becomes entitled to state pension
credit, universal credit, child tax credit or working tax credit in respect of
a day in the qualifying week by virtue of a decision made after that week. In
those circumstances, a winter fuel payment may be paid to the person if it
appears to the Secretary of State that they are eligible.

  The amount of a winter fuel payment is £300, if the person has reached the
age of 80 in or before the qualifying week or they are in a couple or a
polygamous marriage and the other member of that couple or marriage has
reached that age, and £200, in any other case.

  These Regulations revoke the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations
2000 ( S.I. 2000/729 ) as well as provisions amending those Regulations.
Provision is also made for the provisions giving entitlement to winter fuel
payments to persons habitually resident in one of the countries listed in
Schedule 1 to expire on 1st April 2025.

  Hard copies of the documents referenced in regulation 2(3)(b) are available
by writing to the International Policy team, Department for Work and Pensions,
Caxton House, Tothill Street, London, SW1H 9NA.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, public or voluntary sectors is
foreseen.

