Title: The Rates (Regional Rates) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-03
Description: This Order fixes the amount of the regional rates for the year ending 31st March 2025. It fixes 29.02 pence in the pound as the amount of the regional rate to be levied on the rateable net annual values of hereditaments (“non-domestic regional rate”) and 0.5042 pence in the pound as the amount of the regional rate to be levied on the rateable capital values of hereditaments (“domestic regional rate”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/28

## The Rates (Regional Rates) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

Rates

Made 29th February 2024

Affirmed by resolution of the Assembly on 12th March 2024

Coming into operation in accordance with Article 1

The Department of Finance  makes the following Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by Article 7(1) and (3) of the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 .
In accordance with Article 7(4)  of that Order it has taken into consideration
estimates of the amounts to be raised by district rates.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Rates (Regional Rates) Order (Northern Ireland)
2024 and shall come into operation on the day after the day on which it is
affirmed by resolution of the Assembly.

### Application

2

This Order shall apply in respect of the year ending 31st March 2025.

### Regional Rates

3

3.1

The regional rate to be levied on the rateable net annual values of
hereditaments shall be 29.02 pence in the pound.

3.2

The regional rate to be levied on the rateable capital values of hereditaments
shall be 0.5042 pence in the pound.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 29th February
2024 (L.S.) Andrew McAvoy A senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order fixes the amount of the regional rates for the year ending 31st
March 2025. It fixes 29.02 pence in the pound as the amount of the regional
rate to be levied on the rateable net annual values of hereditaments (“non-
domestic regional rate”) and 0.5042 pence in the pound as the amount of the
regional rate to be levied on the rateable capital values of hereditaments
(“domestic regional rate”).

Hereditaments which are dwelling-houses, private garages and private storage
premises have a rateable capital value. Hereditaments which are used partly
for the purposes of a private dwelling have a rateable capital value and a
rateable net annual value. All other hereditaments have a rateable net annual
value.

