Title: The Trunk Road T3 [Western Transport Corridor – Sion Mills (North) to Ballygawley (West)] Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-11-15
Description: This Order provides that—55.75 kilometres of new road (including 7 new junctions) described in Part I of the Schedule, more particularly delineated and coloured red on Maps 1 to 29 shall become trunk road and be part of the Belfast-Ballygawley-Londonderry-Land Frontier Trunk Road T3;0.35 kilometres of new road (including 1 new roundabout) described in Part II of the Schedule, more particularly delineated and coloured dark blue on Map 15 shall become trunk road and be part of the Cookstown-Omagh-Enniskillen-Aghalane-Land Frontier Trunk Road T10; and1.36 kilometres of new road described in Part III of the Schedule, more particularly delineated and coloured red on Map 29 shall become trunk road and be part of the Aughnacloy-Ballygawley-Enniskillen-Belcoo-Land Frontier T6.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/178

## The Trunk Road T3 [Western Transport Corridor – Sion Mills (North) to Ballygawley (West)] Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Roads

  Made   10th October 2024

  Coming into operation-   13th November 2024

      The Department for Infrastructure  makes the following Order in exercise
of the powers conferred by Articles 14(1) and 68(1), (3) and (5) of, and
paragraph 5 of Schedule 8 to, the Roads (Northern Ireland) Order 1993  (the “
1993 Order ”) and now vested in it .       In accordance with Article 14(1) of
the 1993 Order, the Department considers it expedient for the purpose of
improving the trunk system that the road proposed to be constructed on the
route described in Part I of the Schedule and the lengths of proposed new
roads described in Parts II and III of the Schedule should be designated as
trunk roads.       In accordance with Article 68(4) of the 1993 Order, the
following Order provides for the carrying out by the Department of such works
as it considers necessary for the provision of alternative facilities for road
traffic before—     a     the junctions described in Part IV of the Schedule
are stopped-up to road traffic; and         b     the roads described in Part
V of the Schedule are stopped-up to road traffic.           In accordance with
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 8 to the 1993 Order, all notices, drafts,
maps and plans relevant to the making of the following Order have been
published, served, given and displayed.       992 written representations were
received in relation to the consultation period in 2016, 269 written
representations were received in relation to the consultation period in 2019
and 1,247 written representations were received in relation to the
consultation period in 2022. The Department considered a total of 2,508
representations.           The Department having caused local inquiries to be
held into the representations that were made and having considered the reports
of the inquiries, now proposes to make an Order with modifications.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

This Order may be cited as The Trunk Road T3 [Western Transport Corridor –
Sion Mills (North) to Ballygawley (West)] Order (Northern Ireland) 2024 and
shall come into operation on 13th November 2024.

2

In this Order “Map 1” to “Map 29”, inclusive means the sequence of drawings
numbered from 796036-WS-OD53-01 to 796036-WS-OD53-29 inclusive, marked The
Trunk Road T3 [Western Transport Corridor – Sion Mills (North) to Ballygawley
(West)] Order (Northern Ireland) 2024, copies of which have been deposited at
the following offices of the Department: Western Division, County Hall,
Drumragh Avenue, Omagh; Fermanagh & Omagh (East) Section Office, 32 Deverney
Road, Arvalee, Omagh; Mid Ulster (South) Section Office, Moygashel Depot, Main
Street, Moygashel; Derry City & Strabane Section Office, 18 Urney Road,
Strabane; Derry City & Strabane Section Office, 1 Crescent Road, Londonderry;
Lands Headquarters, James House, Cromac Avenue, Belfast; and at the offices of
– Mid Ulster District Council, Circular Road, Dungannon; Derry City & Strabane
District Council, 47 Derry Road, Strabane; Derry City & Strabane District
Council, 98 Strand Road, Londonderry; Fermanagh & Omagh District Council,
Strule House, 16 High Street, Omagh; and at the offices of Monaghan County
Council, Planning Office, 1 Dublin Street, Monaghan Town, County Monaghan H18
X982 and Donegal County Council, Planning Office, County House, Lifford,
County Donegal F93 Y622.

### Directions as to trunk roads

3

The Department directs that the following roads shall become trunk roads—

3.a

the road proposed to be constructed on the route described in Part I of the
Schedule shall become trunk road and be part of the Belfast-Ballygawley-
Londonderry-Land Frontier Trunk Road T3;

3.b

the road proposed to be constructed on the route described in Part II of the
Schedule shall become trunk road and be part of the Cookstown-Omagh-
Enniskillen-Aghalane-Land Frontier Trunk Road T10; and

3.c

the road proposed to be constructed on the route described in Part III of the
Schedule shall become trunk road and be part of the Aughnacloy-Ballygawley-
Enniskillen-Belcoo-Land Frontier T6.

### Stopping-up of roads

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the following roads shall be stopped-up—

4.1.a

the junctions described in Part IV of the Schedule shall be stopped-up to road
traffic at the points specified in that Part; and

4.1.b

the roads described in Part V of the Schedule shall be stopped-up to road
traffic at the points specified in that Part.

4.2

The Department shall carry out such works as it considers necessary for the
provision of alternative facilities for road traffic before the roads
described in Parts IV and V of the Schedule are stopped-up.

4.3

The Department may carry out such works as it considers necessary to prevent
or restrict to such extent as the Department thinks fit, access to the
junctions and roads described in Parts IV and V of the Schedule by road
traffic.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 10th
October 2024 (L.S.) Davy Millar A senior officer of the Department for
Infrastructure

Articles 3 and 4

##### NEW ROAD PROPOSED TO BE CONSTRUCTED TO BE TRUNK AND PART OF THE T3

  55.75 kilometres of new road (including 7 new junctions) in the townlands of
Ballyfatten, Glebe, Seein, Glentimon, Ballought, Breen, Clady Johnston, Clady
Blair, Mulvin, Urbalreagh, Milltown, Magheracoltan, Birnaghs, Laragh, Rakelly,
Upper or New Deer Park, Newtown Stewart, Grange, Lislap West, Lurganboy,
Beltany, Gortinagin, Castletown, Killinure, Gortnacreagh, Tully,
Tattraconnaghty, Lislimnaghan, Bunnynubber, Mullaghmenagh Lower, Deer Park
(McCormick), Ballygowan, Lammy, Rylands, Beagh, Drumshanly, Drumragh
(Caldwell), Doogary, Freughmore, Tattykeel, Ranelly, Tullyrush, Rarone,
Moylagh, Legacurry, Beagh, Killadroy, Kilnaheery, Fernaghandrum, Tullanafoile,
Tamlaght, Tycanny, Glennageeragh, Kilgreen Upper, Kilgreen Lower, Errigal,
Gort, Bloomhill, Cleanally, Sess, Carran, Feddan, Crossboy and Drumcorke in
Derry City and Strabane, Fermanagh and Omagh and Mid Ulster district council
areas and counties of Londonderry and Tyrone, consisting of:     a     53.36
kilometres of new road from a point 398 metres north-west of its junction with
U0211 Peacock Road, to a point on T6 A0004 Annaghilla Road, 120 metres south-
west of its junction with C0650 Feddan Road, more particularly delineated and
coloured red on Maps 1 to 29;         b     0.44 kilometres of slip road
extending in a generally north-westerly direction from the new roundabout
which will exist on T10 A0032 Clanabogan Road, to the new route, more
particularly delineated, coloured red and marked ‘Southbound Off-Slip’ on Map
15;         c     0.44 kilometres of slip road extending in a generally north-
westerly direction from the new roundabout which will exist on T10 A0032
Clanabogan Road, to the new route, more particularly delineated, coloured red
and marked ‘Northbound On-Slip’ on Map 15;         d     0.66 kilometres of
slip road extending in a generally south-easterly direction from the new
roundabout which will exist on T10 A0032 Clanabogan Road, to the new route,
more particularly delineated, coloured red and marked ‘Southbound On-Slip’ on
Map 15; and         e     0.85 kilometres of slip road extending in a
generally south-easterly direction from the new roundabout which will exist on
T10 A0032 Clanabogan Road, to the new route, more particularly delineated,
coloured red and marked ‘Northbound Off-Slip’ on Map 15.

##### NEW ROAD PROPOSED TO BE CONSTRUCTED TO BE TRUNK AND PART OF THE T10

  0.35 kilometres of new road to provide a new roundabout in the townlands of
Ballygowan and Lammy in Fermanagh and Omagh District Council Area and County
of Tyrone, from a point on the existing T10 A0032 Clanabogan Road 306 metres
south-west of its junction with U2159 Dromore Road, to a point 481 metres
south-west of that junction, more particularly delineated and coloured dark
blue on Map 15.

##### NEW ROAD PROPOSED TO BE CONSTRUCTED TO BE TRUNK AND PART OF THE T6

  1.36 kilometres of new road in the townlands of Drumcorke, Tullybryan,
Lisbeg and Grange in Mid Ulster District Council Area in County Tyrone, from a
point on T6 A0004 Annaghilla Road, 120 metres south-west of its junction with
C0650 Feddan Road, to its junction with the new Ballygawley Roundabout, more
particularly delineated and coloured red on Map 29.

##### JUNCTIONS TO BE STOPPED-UP TO ROAD TRAFFIC

1

U0216 Stone Road in the townland of Clady Johnston, at its northern junction
with C0672 Urbalreagh Road, more particularly delineated, coloured brown and
marked J15.1 on Map 4.

2

B0084 Baronscourt Road in the townland of Upper or New Deer Park, at its
junction with U0223 Golf Course Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
brown and marked J18.1 on Map 7.

3

U1516 known locally as McFarland’s Road in the townland of Killinure, at its
junction with C0671 Castletown Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
brown and marked J22.1 on Map 11.

4

U0406 Tycanny Road in the townland of Glennageeragh, at its junction with
C0657 Newtownsaville Road, more particularly delineated, coloured brown and
marked J37.1 on Map 26.

5

U0407 Rarogan Road in the townlands of Kilgreen Upper and Kilgreen Lower, at
its junction with C0657 Newtownsaville Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured brown and marked J37.2 on Map 26.

6

U0340 Crew Road in the townland of Carran, at its junction with C0650 Feddan
Road, more particularly delineated, coloured brown and marked J39.1 on Map 28.

7

U0340 Crew Road in the townland of Carran, at its junction with C0651
Ballynasaggart Road, more particularly delineated, coloured brown and marked
J39.2 on Map 28.

8

C0651 Ballynany Road in the townland of Drumcorke, at its junction with A0004
Annaghilla Road, more particularly delineated, coloured brown and marked J40.1
on Map 29.

##### ROADS TO BE STOPPED-UP TO ROAD TRAFFIC

1

U0211 Peacock Road in the townland of Ballyfatten—

1.a

at a point 281 metres south-west of its junction with A0005 Melmount Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S12.3 on Map 1; and

1.b

at a point 329 metres south-west of its junction with A0005 Melmount Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S12.4 on Map 1.

2

C0678 Garden Road—

2.a

in the townland of Seein, at a line 270 metres north-east of its junction with
B0165 Bellspark Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.1 on Map 2;

2.b

in the townlands of Seein and Glebe, at a line 209 metres north-east of its
junction with B0165 Bellspark Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S13.2 on Map 2;

2.c

in the townland of Glebe, at a point 26 metres north-east of its junction with
B0165 Bellspark Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.5 on Map 2; and

2.d

in the townland of Glebe, at a point 11 metres north-east of its junction with
B0165 Bellspark Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.6 on Map 2.

3

B0165 Bellspark Road—

3.a

in the townland of Glebe, at a line 166 metres east of its junction with U0211
Peacock Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S13.3 on
Map 2;

3.b

in the townland of Glebe, at a line 159 metres west of its junction with C0678
Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S13.4 on
Map 2;

3.c

in the townland of Glebe, at a point 29 metres west of its junction with C0678
Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S13.7 on
Map 2;

3.d

in the townland of Glebe, at a point 57 metres west of its junction with C0678
Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S13.8 on
Map 2;

3.e

in the townland of Seein, at a line 210 metres south-east of its junction with
C0678 Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.9 on Map 2;

3.f

in the townland of Seein, at a line 243 metres south-east of its junction with
C0678 Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.10 on Map 2;

3.g

in the townland of Seein, at a line 335 metres south-east of its junction with
C0678 Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.13 on Map 2; and

3.h

in the townland of Seein, at a line 440 metres south-east of its junction with
C0678 Garden Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S13.14 on Map 2.

4

U0212 High Road in the townland of Seein—

4.a

at a point 649 metres north-west of its junction with U0212 Seein Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S13.11 on Map 2; and

4.b

at a point 699 metres north-west of its junction with U0212 Seein Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S13.12 on Map 2.

5

U0212 Seein Road in the townland of Glentimon—

5.a

at a line 584 metres south-west of its junction with B0165 Bellspark Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S14.1 on Map 3;

5.b

at a point 754 metres south-west of its junction with B0165 Bellspark Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S14.2 on Map 3;

5.c

at a line 940 metres south-west of its junction with B0165 Bellspark Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S14.3 on Map 3; and

5.d

at a line 984 metres south-west of its junction with B0165 Bellspark Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S14.4 on Map 3.

6

C0672 Urbalreagh Road in the townland of Clady Johnston—

6.a

at a line 94 metres north of its northern junction with U0216 Stone Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.1 on Map 4;

6.b

at a line 13 metres north of its northern junction with U0216 Stone Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.2 on Map 4;

6.c

at a line 258 metres south of its northern junction with U0216 Stone Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.4 on Map 4;

6.d

at a point 77 metres south of its northern junction with U0216 Stone Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.5 on Map 4;

6.e

at a line extending from a point 6 metres south of its northern junction with
U0216 Stone Road to a point 15 metres south of that junction, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.6 on Map 4; and

6.f

at a line 52 metres south of its northern junction with U0216 Stone Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.7 on Map 4.

7

U0216 Stone Road in the townland of Clady Johnston, at a line 197 metres
south-west of its northern junction with C0672 Urbalreagh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S15.3 on Map 4.

8

U0219 Derg Road in the townland of Urbalreagh—

8.a

at a point 436 metres south-west of its junction with C0679 Old Bridge Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S16.1 on Map 5;

8.b

at a line 394 metres south-west of its junction with C0679 Old Bridge Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S16.2 on Map 5;

8.c

at a point 323 metres south-west of its junction with C0679 Old Bridge Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S16.3 on Map 5; and

8.d

at a line 149 metres south-west of its junction with C0679 Old Bridge Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S16.4 on Map 5.

9

C0679 Milltown Road in the townlands of Milltown and Magheracoltan—

9.a

at a point 343 metres south-west of its junction with C0679 Magheracoltan
Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S17.1 on Map 6;
and

9.b

at a point 379 metres south-west of its junction with C0679 Magheracoltan
Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S17.2 on Map 6.

10

C0679 Drumlegagh Road North in the townlands of Birnaghs and Laragh—

10.a

at a line 453 metres south-west of its junction with B0084 Baronscourt Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S18.1 on Map 7; and

10.b

at a point 292 metres south-west of its junction with B0084 Baronscourt Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S18.2 on Map 7.

11

U0223 Golf Course Road—

11.a

in the townlands of Laragh and Upper or New Deer Park, at a point 132 metres
south-west of its junction with B0084 Baronscourt Road, more particularly
delineated, coloured green and marked S18.3 on Map 7; and

11.b

in the townland of Laragh, at a point 343 metres south-west of its junction
with B0084 Baronscourt Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S18.5 on Map 7.

12

B0084 Baronscourt Road in the townland of Laragh, at a point 391 metres south-
west of its junction with U0223 Golf Course Road, more particularly
delineated, coloured green and marked S18.4 on Map 7.

13

U0234 Glen Road in the townland of Newtown Stewart—

13.a

at a line 489 metres south of its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S19.1 on Map 8; and

13.b

at a line 606 metres south-west of its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S19.2 on Map 8.

14

U0234 Gortgranagh Road—

14.a

in the townlands of Newtown Stewart and Grange, at a line 419 metres south of
its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S19.3 on Map 8; and

14.b

in the townlands of Newtown Stewart and Grange, at a line 742 metres south of
its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S19.4 on Map 8.

15

C0671 Castletown Road in the townland of Grange—

15.a

at a line 341 metres south-east of its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S19.5 on Map 8;

15.b

at a line 534 metres south-east of its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S19.6 on Map 8;

15.c

at a line 36 metres south of its south-eastern junction with U0235 Grange
Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S19.8 on Map 8;
and

15.d

at a line 618 metres south-east of its junction with C0671 Dublin Street, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S19.9 on Map 8.

16

U0235 Grange Road in the townland of Grange, at a line 148 metres north-east
of its junction with C0671 Castletown Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S19.7 on Map 8.

17

U1522 West Road in the townland of Lislap West at a line 390 metres east of
its junction with C0671 Castletown Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S20.1 on Map 9.

18

U1523 known locally as Hamilton’s Road in the townland of Beltany—

18.a

at a line 101 metres south-west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S20.2 on Map 9; and

18.b

at a line 240 metres south-west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S20.3 on Map 9.

19

U1519 McCormack’s Road in the townland of Gortinagin—

19.a

at a point 178 metres west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S21.1 on Map 10; and

19.b

at a point 290 metres west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S21.2 on Map 10.

20

U1524 Killynure Road in the townland of Castletown—

20.a

at a line 458 metres north-east of its junction with C0671 Castletown Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S22.1 on Map 11; and

20.b

at a line 217 metres east of its junction with C0671 Castletown Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S22.2 on Map 11.

21

U1516 known locally as McFarland’s Road in the townland of Killinure, at a
line 93 metres west of its junction with C0671 Castletown Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S22.3 on Map 11.

22

U1526 Tully Road—

22.a

in the townland of Tattraconnaghty, at a line 82 metres north of its junction
with U1526 Rash Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S23.3 on Map 12;

22.b

in the townland of Tully, at a line 320 metres south-east of its junction with
U1526 Rash Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S23.6
on Map 12;

22.c

in the townland of Tully, at a point 447 metres north-west of its junction
with A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S23.7 on Map 12; and

22.d

in the townland of Tully, at a point 409 metres north-west of its junction
with A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S23.8 on Map 12.

23

U1526 Rash Road—

23.a

in the townland of Tattraconnaghty, at a line 53 metres north-east of its
junction with U1526 Tully Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green
and marked S23.4 on Map 12; and

23.b

in the townland of Tully, at a line 189 metres south-west of its junction with
U1526 Tully Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S23.5 on Map 12.

24

A0005 Beltany Road in the townlands of Mountjoy Forest West Division and
Lislimnaghan—

24.a

at a line 166 metres south of its junction with U1527 Rash Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.1 on Map 13; and

24.b

at a line 345 metres south of its junction with U1527 Rash Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.2 on Map 13.

25

C0679 Drumlegagh Road South—

25.a

in the townland of Tully, at a point 235 metres north-west of its junction
with A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S24.3 on Map 13;

25.b

in the townland of Lislimnaghan, at a point 173 metres north-west of its
junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green
and marked S24.4 on Map 13;

25.c

in the townland of Tully, at a line 713 metres north-west of its junction with
A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S24.9 on Map 13;

25.d

in the townland of Tully, at a line 625 metres north-west of its junction with
A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S24.10 on Map 13; and

25.e

in the townland of Tully, at a line 616 metres north-west of its junction with
A0005 Beltany Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S24.11 on Map 13.

26

U1511 Todds Road in the townland of Lislimnaghan—

26.a

at a point 177 metres west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.5 on Map 13; and

26.b

at a point 212 metres west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.6 on Map 13.

27

U1512 Mellon Park Drive in the townland of Bunnynubber—

27.a

at a point 735 metres north-west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.7 on Map 13;

27.b

at a point 630 metres north-west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.8 on Map 13;

27.c

at a point 434 metres west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.12 on Map 13; and

27.d

at a point 483 metres west of its junction with A0005 Beltany Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S24.13 on Map 13.

28

B0050 Gillygooly Road—

28.a

in the townland of Mullaghmenagh Lower, at a point 61 metres west of its
junction with U1535 Mullaghmena Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S25.1 on Map 14;

28.b

in the townland of Mullaghmenagh Lower, at a line 147 metres east of its
junction with U1535 Mullaghmena Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S25.2 on Map 14;

28.c

in the townland of Mullaghmenagh Lower, at a line 219 metres east of its
junction with U1535 Mullaghmena Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S25.3 on Map 14;

28.d

in the townland of Mullaghmenagh Lower, at a point 89 metres west of its
junction with U1535 Mullaghmena Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S25.4 on Map 14;

28.e

in the townland of Aghnamoyle, at a line 408 metres west of its junction with
U1535 Mullaghmena Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S25.5 on Map 14; and

28.f

in the townland of Aghnamoyle at a line 470 metres west of its junction with
U1535 Mullaghmena Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S25.6 on Map 14.

29

U1535 Mullaghmena Road in the townland of Mullaghmenagh Lower, at a point 95
metres south-east of its junction with B0050 Gillygooly Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S25.7 on Map 14.

30

U1533 Botera Road in the townland of Deer Park (McCormick)—

30.a

at a line 181 metres south-west of its junction with C0667 Aghnamoyle Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S25.8 on Map 14; and

30.b

at a point 94 metres south-west of its junction with C0667 Aghnamoyle Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S25.9 on Map 14.

31

U1539 Tamlaght Road in the townland of Ballygowan—

31.a

at a line 259 metres north-east of its junction with U1540 Bracken Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S26.1 on Map 15; and

31.b

at a line 289 metres north-east of its junction with U1540 Bracken Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S26.2 on Map 15.

32

C0666 Loughmuck Road in the townland of Rylands—

32.a

at a line 454 metres south-west of its junction with U2159 Dromore Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S26.3 on Map 15; and

32.b

at a line 718 metres south-west of its junction with U2159 Dromore Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S26.4 on Map 15.

33

U1660 Beagh Road in the townland of Beagh—

33.a

at a line 518 metres north-west of its junction with C0663 Ballynahatty Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S27.1 on Map 16; and

33.b

at a line 337 metres north-west of its junction with C0663 Ballynahatty Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S27.2 on Map 16.

34

C0663 Ballynahatty Road—

34.a

in the townland of Beagh, at a line 105 metres south of its junction with
U1660 Beagh Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S27.3 on Map 16; and

34.b

in the townland of Drumshanly, at a line 444 metres south-west of its junction
with U1660 Beagh Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S27.4 on Map 16.

35

U1303 Blackfort Road in the townland of Drumragh (Caldwell)—

35.a

at a line 302 metres south-west of its junction with U1306 Drumragh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.1 on Map 17; and

35.b

at a line 14 metres south-west of its junction with U1306 Drumragh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.2 on Map 17.

36

U1306 Drumragh Road in the townland of Drumragh (Caldwell)—

36.a

at a line 295 metres south-east of its junction with U1303 Blackfort Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.3 on Map 17; and

36.b

at a point 175 metres south-east of its junction with U1303 Blackfort Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.14 on Map 17.

37

A0005 Doogary Road in the townland of Doogary—

37.a

at a line extending from a point 94 metres west of its junction with U1745
Doogary Avenue to a point 116 metres west of that junction, more particularly
delineated, coloured green and marked S28.4 on Map 17;

37.b

at a line 94 metres south-east of its junction with B0083 Seskinore Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.7 on Map 17;

37.c

at a line 112 metres south-east of its junction with B0083 Seskinore Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.9 on Map 17; and

37.d

at a line extending from a point 145 metres south-east of its junction U1745
Doogary Avenue to a point 164 metres south-east of that junction, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S28.10 on Map 17.

38

B0083 Seskinore Road—

38.a

in the townland of Doogary, at a point 15 metres south-west of its junction
with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S28.5 on Map 17;

38.b

in the townland of Doogary, at a line 42 metres south-west of its junction
with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S28.6 on Map 17;

38.c

in the townland of Doogary, at a line 237 metres south of its junction with
A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S28.8 on Map 17;

38.d

in the townland of Doogary, at a point 551 metres south of its junction with
A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S28.11 on Map 17;

38.e

in the townland of Drumragh (P McCausland), at a line 764 metres south-west of
its junction with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured
green and marked S28.12 on Map 17; and

38.f

in the townland of Drumragh (P McCausland), at a line 786 metres south of its
junction with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green
and marked S28.13 on Map 17.

39

U1306 Tattykeel Road—

39.a

in the townlands of Tattykeel and Freughmore, at a line 569 metres south-east
of its junction with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S29.1 on Map 18;

39.b

in the townland of Tattykeel, at a line 846 metres south-east of its junction
with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S29.2 on Map 18;

39.c

in the townland of Tattykeel, at a line 422 metres north-west of its junction
with U1306 Drumconnelly Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S29.3 on Map 18; and

39.d

in the townland of Tattykeel, at a line 373 metres north-west of its junction
with U1306 Drumconnelly Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S29.4 on Map 18.

40

U1306 Drumconnelly Road—

40.a

in the townland of Tattykeel, at a point 158 metres south-west of its junction
with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S30.1 on Map 19;

40.b

in the townland of Tattykeel, at a line 551 metres south-west of its junction
with A0005 Doogary Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S30.2 on Map 19;

40.c

at a point 187 metres south-west of its junction with A0005 Doogary Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S30.3 on Map 19; and

40.d

at a line 438 metres south-west of its junction with A0005 Doogary Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S30.4 on Map 19.

41

U1309 Rarone Road—

41.a

in the townlands of Tullyheeran and Moylagh, at a line 282 metres south-west
of its junction with C0657 Augher Point Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S31.1 on Map 20; and

41.b

in the townlands of Rarone and Moylagh, at a point 605 metres south-west of
its junction with C0657 Augher Point Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S31.2 on Map 20.

42

U1310 Drumconnelly Road in the townland of Moylagh—

42.a

at a point 153 metres south-west of its junction with C0657 Augher Point Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.1 on Map 21; and

42.b

at a point 181 metres south-west of its junction with C0657 Augher Point Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.2 on Map 21.

43

B0046 Moylagh Road in the townland of Moylagh—

43.a

at a line 410 metres south-west of its junction with C0657 Augher Point Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.3 on Map 21; and

43.b

at a point 150 metres south-west of its junction with C0657 Augher Point Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.4 on Map 21.

44

C0657 Augher Point Road in the townland of Legacurry—

44.a

at a line 143 metres south-west of its junction with B0046 Moylagh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.5 on Map 21;

44.b

at a line 315 metres south-west of its junction with B0046 Moylagh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.6 on Map 21;

44.c

at a line 105 metres south-west of its junction with B0046 Moylagh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.7 on Map 21; and

44.d

at a line 12 metres south of its junction with B0046 Moylagh Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S32.8 on Map 21.

45

C0630 Killadroy Road in the townland of Killadroy—

45.a

at a line 282 metres north-east of its junction with C0682 Greenmount Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S33.1 on Map 22; and

45.b

at a point 225 metres north-east of its junction with C0682 Greenmount Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S33.2 on Map 22.

46

C0682 Greenmount Road in the townland of Killadroy—

46.a

at a line 187 metres east of its junction with C0630 Killadroy Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S33.3 on Map 22;

46.b

at a line 398 metres east of its junction with C0630 Killadroy Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S33.4 on Map 22;

46.c

at a line 535 metres east of its junction with C0630 Killadroy Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S33.5 on Map 22; and

46.d

at a line 406 metres east of its junction with C0630 Killadroy Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S33.6 on Map 22.

47

U0404 Routingburn Road in the townland of Kilnaheery—

47.a

at a point 386 metres east of its junction with C0630 Killadroy Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S34.1 on Map 23; and

47.b

at a point 355 metres east of its junction with C0630 Killadroy Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S34.2 on Map 23.

48

C0657 Springhill Road—

48.a

in the townlands of Tamlaght and Tullanafoile at a line 289 metres north-east
of its junction with C0657 Newtownsaville Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S35.1 on Map 24; and

48.b

in the townland of Tamlaght at a line 242 metres north-east of its junction
with C0657 Newtownsaville Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green
and marked S35.2 on Map 24.

49

U0409 Cormore Road in the townland of Tullanafoile—

49.a

at a point 198 metres south-west of its junction with U0405 Tullanafoile Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S35.3 on Map 24; and

49.b

at a point 164 metres south-west of its junction with U0405 Tullanafoile Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S35.4 on Map 24.

50

U0405 Tullanafoile Road in the townland of Tullanafoile—

50.a

at a point 596 metres north-west of its junction with U0409 Cormore Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S35.5 on Map 24; and

50.b

at a point 399 metres north-west of its junction with U0409 Cormore Road, more
particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S35.6 on Map 24.

51

U0406 Tycanny Road in the townland of Tycanny, at a line 201 metres north-west
of its junction with C0657 Newtownsaville Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S37.1 on Map 26.

52

U0407 Rarogan Road in the townland of Kilgreen Upper, at a line 188 metres
north-west of its junction with C0657 Newtownsaville Road, more particularly
delineated, coloured green and marked S37.2 on Map 26.

53

C0650 Glenhoy Road—

53.a

in the townland of Errigal, at a line 380 metres south-west of its junction
with U0417 Errigal Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S38.1 on Map 27;

53.b

in the townland of Bloomhill, at a line 40 metres west of its junction with
U0417 Errigal Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked
S38.2 on Map 27;

53.c

in the townland of Errigal, at a line 338 metres south-west of its junction
with U0417 Errigal Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S38.3 on Map 27;

53.d

in the townland of Errigal, at a line 228 metres south-west of its junction
with U0417 Errigal Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and
marked S38.4 on Map 27;

53.e

in the townlands of Gort and Bloomhill, at a line 75 metres south-west of its
junction with U0417 Errigal Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green
and marked S38.5 on Map 27; and

53.f

in the townlands of Gort and Errigal, at a line 208 metres south-west of its
junction with U0417 Errigal Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green
and marked S38.6 on Map 27.

54

C0650 Feddan Road in the townland of Drumcorke—

54.a

at a line 21 metres north-west of its junction with A0004 Annaghilla Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S40.1 on Map 29; and

54.b

at a point 280 metres north-west of its junction with A0004 Annaghilla Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S40.2 on Map 29.

55

U0345 Tullybryan Road in the townland of Drumcorke, at a line 17 metres north-
west of its junction with A0004 Annaghilla Road, more particularly delineated,
coloured green and marked S40.3 on Map 29.

56

U0317 Tullywinny Road in the townland of Lisbeg—

56.a

at a point 123 metres south of its existing junction with A0004 Annaghilla
Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S40.4 on Map 29;
and

56.b

at a point 38 metres south of its existing junction with A0004 Annaghilla
Road, more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S40.8 on Map 29.

57

U0338 Ballynany Road in the townland of Ballynany—

57.a

at a point 382 metres south-east of its junction with A0004 Annaghilla Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S40.5 on Map 29; and

57.b

at a point 172 metres south-east of its junction with A0004 Annaghilla Road,
more particularly delineated, coloured green and marked S40.7 on Map 29.

58

U0338 Drumcullion Lane in the townland of Ballynany at a point 116 metres
south-east of its junction with A0004 Annaghilla Road, more particularly
delineated, coloured green and marked S40.6 on Map 29.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order provides that—     a     55.75 kilometres of new road (including
7 new junctions) described in Part I of the Schedule, more particularly
delineated and coloured red on Maps 1 to 29 shall become trunk road and be
part of the Belfast-Ballygawley-Londonderry-Land Frontier Trunk Road T3;
b     0.35 kilometres of new road (including 1 new roundabout) described in
Part II of the Schedule, more particularly delineated and coloured dark blue
on Map 15 shall become trunk road and be part of the Cookstown-Omagh-
Enniskillen-Aghalane-Land Frontier Trunk Road T10; and         c     1.36
kilometres of new road described in Part III of the Schedule, more
particularly delineated and coloured red on Map 29 shall become trunk road and
be part of the Aughnacloy-Ballygawley-Enniskillen-Belcoo-Land Frontier T6.

  The Order also provides for the stopping-up of certain roads.

  Other proposed new connecting roads together with 45 new bridges which are
not the subject of this Order are shown coloured blue and orange respectively
on Maps 1 to 29 for the purpose of clarification.

  In this Order, “Map 1” to “Map 29”, inclusive means the sequence of drawings
numbered from 796036-WS-OD53-01 to 796036-WS-OD53-29, inclusive marked The
Trunk Road T3 [Western Transport Corridor – Sion Mills (North) to Ballygawley
(West)] Order (Northern Ireland) 2024, copies of which have been deposited at
the following offices of the Department: Western Division, County Hall,
Drumragh Avenue, Omagh; Fermanagh & Omagh (East) Section Office, 32 Deverney
Road, Arvalee, Omagh; Mid Ulster (South) Section Office, Moygashel Depot, Main
Street, Moygashel; Derry City & Strabane Section Office, 18 Urney Road,
Strabane; Derry City & Strabane Section Office, 1 Crescent Road, Londonderry;
Lands Headquarters, James House, Cromac Avenue, Belfast; and at the offices of
– Mid Ulster District Council, Circular Road, Dungannon; Derry City & Strabane
District Council, 47 Derry Road, Strabane; Derry City & Strabane District
Council, 98 Strand Road, Londonderry; and Fermanagh & Omagh District Council,
Strule House, 16 High Street, Omagh; and at the offices of Monaghan County
Council, Planning Office, 1 Dublin Street, Monaghan Town, County Monaghan H18
X982 and Donegal County Council, Planning Office, County House, Lifford,
County Donegal F93 Y622.

