Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Funding and Investment Strategy and Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision relating to the funding of occupational pension schemes to which Part IV of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 (“the 2005 Order”) (scheme funding) applies. They implement the amendments to that Part made by Schedule 11 to the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (funding of defined benefit schemes).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/90

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Funding and Investment Strategy and Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under Article 288(2) and (3)(ha) to (hc) of the Pensions (Northern
Ireland) Order 2005 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six
months from the date of their coming into operation

    Pensions

  Made   5th April 2024

  Coming into operation   6th April 2024

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 200A(3)(b), (4) and (5),
200B(2)(d), (4), (6)(b) and (8)(b), (c) and (d), 201(4)(c), 203(6), 205(3A),
(4) and (6) and 287(2) and (3) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 .

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes (Funding
and Investment Strategy and Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and
shall come into operation on 6th April 2024.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment strategy
relates ” has the meaning given by regulation 7(8)(b);           “ Code ”
means a code of practice issued by the Regulator;           “ group
undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161 of the Companies Act 2006
(meaning of “ undertaking ” and related expressions);           “ journey plan
” in relation to a scheme means the scheme’s planned progress in accordance
with its funding and investment strategy as it moves towards the relevant
date, starting with the effective date of the actuarial valuation to which the
funding and investment strategy relates and ending with the relevant date;
“ low dependency funding basis ” in relation to a calculation of the
liabilities of a scheme has the meaning given by regulation 5;           “ low
dependency investment allocation ” has the meaning given by regulation 4;
“ maturity ” in relation to a scheme is measured in accordance with regulation
3;           “ professional trustee body ” means a body which—         was not
established by an employer in relation to the scheme;           is remunerated
for its services as a trustee by one or more schemes;           has arranged a
policy of indemnity insurance in relation to the exercise of its functions as
a trustee of the scheme, and           is carrying out its functions as a
trustee of the scheme in the ordinary course of a profession or business which
consists of, or includes, providing and holding itself out as providing
services in connection with the management or administration of trusts or any
particular aspect of such management or administration, whether or not such
services relate to a particular kind of trust;                 “ relevant date
” in relation to a scheme means the date determined in accordance with
regulation 7 (as revised from time to time in accordance with that
regulation);           “ significant maturity ” in relation to a scheme has
the meaning given by regulation 3(1)(b);           “ strength of the employer
covenant ” has the meaning given by regulation 6.

2.2

In these Regulations, any reference to a numbered Article is a reference to
the Article of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 bearing that number.

### FUNDING AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY

#### Scheme maturity

3

3.1

For the purposes of these Regulations—

3.1.a

the maturity of a scheme is to be measured in years using a duration of
liabilities measure in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4);

3.1.b

a scheme reaches significant maturity on the date it reaches the duration of
liabilities in years, or such other date, specified by the Regulator in a Code
(and the Regulator may specify different durations of liabilities in years or
different dates for different descriptions of schemes).

3.2

The duration of liabilities measure to be used for the purposes of paragraph
(1) is the weighted mean time until the payment of pensions and other benefits
under the scheme, weighted by the discounted payments, and, in this
regulation, a discounted payment is the present value, at the effective date
the duration is calculated, of an expected payment of pension or other
benefits, calculated using the assumptions set out in paragraphs (3) and (4).

3.3

The actuarial assumptions used for the purposes of paragraph (2) must be
actuarial assumptions used in a calculation of the liabilities of a scheme on
a low dependency funding basis.

3.4

Of the actuarial assumptions used for the purposes of paragraph (2), the
economic assumptions must be chosen by reference to the economic circumstances
prevailing on 31st March 2023.

3.5

In determining the future maturity of a scheme, the trustees or managers of
the scheme may take into consideration whether new members may be admitted to
the scheme and the future accrual of benefits provided that such assumptions
are reasonable and based on an assessment of the financial ability of the
employer, in relation to its legal obligations to the scheme, to support the
scheme, as assessed by considering the matters set out in regulation 6(4).

#### Low dependency investment allocation

4

Low dependency investment allocation means the assets of a scheme are invested
in such a way that the value of the assets relative to the value of the
scheme’s liabilities is highly resilient to short-term adverse changes in
market conditions so that further employer contributions are not expected to
be required to make provision for the scheme’s liabilities.

#### Low dependency funding basis

5

5.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, the liabilities of a scheme are
calculated on a low dependency funding basis where they are calculated using
actuarial assumptions which comply with the requirement in paragraph (2).

5.2

The requirement is that further employer contributions would not be expected
to be required to make provision for the scheme’s liabilities under a scheme
(“ S ”), if the presumptions in paragraph (3) were satisfied in relation to S.

5.3

The presumptions are—

5.3.a

the funding level  of S is 1:1, on a calculation of the liabilities of S which
uses those actuarial assumptions, and

5.3.b

the assets of S are invested in accordance with a low dependency investment
allocation.

#### Strength of the employer covenant

6

6.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, the strength of the employer covenant
has the meaning given in paragraph (2) and is assessed in accordance with
paragraphs (3) to (6).

6.2

The strength of the employer covenant means—

6.2.a

the financial ability of the employer, in relation to its legal obligations to
the scheme, to support the scheme, and

6.2.b

the expected level of support for the scheme from any contingent assets
(whether from the employer in relation to the scheme, group undertakings or
other persons), to the extent the trustees or managers of the scheme could
reasonably expect the contingent assets to be—

6.2.b.i

legally enforceable by them, and

6.2.b.ii

sufficient to provide that support at such time as the trustees or managers
may be required to enforce the support to the scheme.

6.3

The strength of the employer covenant is assessed in relation to an assessment
of the difference between the value of the assets of the scheme and the value
of its liabilities.

6.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a), the matters to be considered in
assessing the financial ability of the employer, in relation to its legal
obligations to the scheme, to support the scheme are—

6.4.a

the cash flow, and expected future cash flow, of the employer;

6.4.b

other matters which are likely to affect the employer’s future ability to
support the scheme including but not limited to the performance, future
development and resilience of the employer’s business, and the likelihood of
an insolvency event  occurring in relation to that employer;

6.4.c

for how long the trustees or managers of the scheme can be reasonably certain
that they can rely on an assessment of the matters in sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b), and

6.4.d

for how long the trustees or managers of the scheme can be reasonably certain
that the employer will be able to continue to support the scheme.

6.5

For the purposes of paragraph (3)—

6.5.a

the assessment of the difference between the value of the assets of the scheme
and the value of its liabilities is to be assessed by reference to—

6.5.a.i

the actuary’s  estimate of the value of the liabilities calculated on a low
dependency funding basis, and

6.5.a.ii

the actuary’s estimate of the solvency of the scheme, as defined by regulation
7(6) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Funding) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2005  (actuarial valuations and reports), and

6.5.b

in considering how much weight is to be given to each of the estimates
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) for the purposes of the assessment, account
is to be given to the likelihood of an event occurring which would result in
an amount being treated as a debt due from the employer to the trustees or
managers of the scheme under Article 75  of the 1995 Order (deficiencies in
the assets).

6.6

Where an assessment of the strength of the employer covenant is being carried
out for the purposes of a determination, review or revision of a funding and
investment strategy, or the subsequent preparation, review or revision of a
statement of strategy setting out that funding and investment strategy, the
actuary’s estimates referred to in paragraph (5) are the estimates set out in
the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment strategy relates.

#### Relevant date

7

7.1

For the purposes of Article 200A(3)(b) (funding and investment strategy), the
trustees or managers of the scheme must set, and from time to time review and
revise, a date (the “relevant date”) in accordance with this regulation.

7.2

Where a scheme has not reached significant maturity, subject to paragraph (6),
the relevant date must not be later than the end of the scheme year in which
the date in paragraph (3) falls.

7.3

The date is the date set out in the actuarial valuation to which the funding
and investment strategy relates as the actuary’s estimate of the date on which
the scheme is expected to reach significant maturity.

7.4

Where a scheme has reached significant maturity, subject to paragraph (6), the
relevant date is the effective date of the actuarial valuation to which the
funding and investment strategy relates.

7.5

Paragraph (6) applies to a scheme which meets the following conditions—

7.5.a

there is a section of the scheme which provides cash balance benefits within
the meaning of section 75 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 ;

7.5.b

there is a section of the scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme
within the meaning of section 52(2) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 , and

7.5.c

active members of the scheme are active members of both sections.

7.6

Where this paragraph applies, the trustees or managers of the scheme must, in
respect of the section which provides cash balance benefits, set the relevant
date.

7.7

Each time the funding and investment strategy is reviewed the trustees or
managers of the scheme must review the relevant date and revise it if it is
necessary or appropriate to do so taking account of the provisions of this
regulation.

7.8

In this regulation—

7.8.a

in paragraph (2), “ scheme year ” means—

7.8.a.i

either—

7.8.a.i.aa

a year specified for the purposes of the scheme rules in any document which
contains those rules, or

7.8.a.i.bb

if no such year is specified, the period of 12 months commencing on 1st April
or on such other date as the trustees or managers select, or

7.8.a.ii

such other period (if any) exceeding 6 months but not exceeding 18 months as
is selected by the trustees or managers in connection with—

7.8.a.ii.aa

the commencement or termination of the scheme, or

7.8.a.ii.bb

a variation of the date on which the year or period referred to in head (i) is
to commence;

7.8.b

in paragraph (3), “ the actuarial valuation to which the funding and
investment strategy relates ” means—

7.8.b.i

where the funding and investment strategy is being determined, reviewed or
revised in a case set out in regulation 12(1) or (2)(a) to (c), being a case
where the time within which a funding and investment strategy must be
determined or reviewed (and, if applicable, revised) relates to the effective
date of an actuarial valuation, that actuarial valuation;

7.8.b.ii

where the funding and investment strategy is being reviewed or revised in a
case set out in regulation 12(2)(d), the actuarial valuation specified in the
direction or, if no such actuarial valuation is specified, the most recent
actuarial valuation, or

7.8.b.iii

where the funding and investment strategy is being reviewed or revised in any
other case, the most recent actuarial valuation.

#### Actuarial methods and assumptions for purposes of funding level

8

8.1

In specifying the funding level they intend the scheme to have achieved as at
the relevant date, the trustees or managers of the scheme must follow the
requirements in paragraph (2).

8.2

The requirements are that they must—

8.2.a

use an accrued benefits funding method, and

8.2.b

calculate the liabilities of the scheme on a low dependency funding basis.

8.3

Subject to paragraphs (1) and (2), it is for the trustees or managers of a
scheme to determine which methods and assumptions are to be used in specifying
the funding level they intend the scheme to have achieved as at the relevant
date.

#### Consistency of assumptions

9

Where the trustees or managers of a scheme are required to use actuarial
assumptions to determine or revise a scheme’s funding and investment strategy—

9.a

in any calculation of the liabilities of a scheme on a low dependency funding
basis, the trustees or managers must choose the same set of assumptions, and

9.b

in a calculation of the duration of liabilities measure within regulation 3,
the trustees or managers must choose—

9.b.i

in relation to the economic assumptions, the same methodology for calculating
those assumptions as is used in paragraph (a), and

9.b.ii

in relation to all other assumptions, the same set of assumptions as are used
in paragraph (a).

#### Matters and principles

10

For the purposes of Article 200A(4)(a) (funding and investment strategy),
Schedule 1 sets out matters the trustees or managers of a scheme must take
into account, and principles they must follow, in determining or revising the
scheme’s funding and investment strategy.

#### Funding and investment strategy – level of detail

11

For the purposes of Article 200A(4)(b) (funding and investment strategy), the
funding and investment strategy must specify—

11.a

the way in which the trustees or managers of the scheme intend pensions and
other benefits under the scheme will be provided over the long term;

11.b

the funding level, calculated in accordance with the requirements in
regulation 8(2), of the scheme as at the effective date of the actuarial
valuation to which the funding and investment strategy relates, as set out in
that valuation;

11.c

in the case of a scheme which has not reached the relevant date—

11.c.i

the expected maturity of the scheme at the relevant date;

11.c.ii

the assumptions used in specifying the funding level, calculated in accordance
with the requirements in regulation 8(2) and (3), the trustees or managers
intend the scheme to have achieved as at the relevant date, and

11.c.iii

how the assumptions referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) are different to the
assumptions used in calculating the scheme’s technical provisions in the
actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment strategy relates;

11.d

in the case of a scheme which has reached the relevant date, the assumptions
used in the actuary’s estimate of the funding level of the scheme as at the
effective date of the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment
strategy relates;

11.e

the discount rate or rates and other assumptions used in calculating the
scheme’s technical provisions in the actuarial valuation to which the funding
and investment strategy relates;

11.f

how the trustees or managers of the scheme expect the discount rate or rates
to change over time, and

11.g

in respect of the requirement in Article 200A(2)(b) to specify the investments
the trustees or managers intend the scheme to hold on the relevant date, the
proportion of the assets of the scheme the trustees or managers intend to
allocate to different categories of investments.

#### Determination, review and revision of funding and investment strategy

12

12.1

The first funding and investment strategy for a scheme must be determined
within the period of 15 months beginning with the effective date of the first
actuarial valuation obtained by the trustees or managers, whether under
Article 203  (actuarial valuations and reports) or otherwise, on or after 22nd
September 2024.

12.2

The funding and investment strategy must be reviewed and, if applicable,
revised—

12.2.a

within the period of 15 months beginning with the effective date of each
subsequent actuarial valuation under Article 203(1)(a);

12.2.b

in the case of an actuarial valuation where the Regulator has given directions
under Article 210(2)(b)(i) (powers of the Regulator)—

12.2.b.i

within the period of 3 months beginning with the date of the directions if the
effective date of the valuation is before the date of the directions, and

12.2.b.ii

within the period of 6 months beginning with the effective date of the
valuation if that date is the same as or later than the date of the
directions;

12.2.c

in the case of an actuarial valuation which does not fall within sub-paragraph
(a) or (b), within the period of 15 months beginning with the effective date
of the valuation;

12.2.d

where the Regulator has given a direction under Article 210(2)(aa) , and in a
case which does not fall within sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) of this paragraph,
within the period of 3 months beginning with the date of the direction, and

12.2.e

as soon as reasonably practicable after any material change in the
circumstances of the scheme or of the employer in relation to the scheme.

12.3

In paragraph (2)(e)—

12.3.a

a material change in the circumstances of the scheme includes but is not
limited to—

12.3.a.i

a material change in the value of the assets of the scheme relative to the
value of its liabilities, or

12.3.a.ii

a material change in the maturity of the scheme, and

12.3.b

a material change in the circumstances of the employer in relation to the
scheme includes but is not limited to a material change in the strength of the
employer covenant.

### STATEMENT OF STRATEGY

#### Supplementary matters

13

For the purposes of Article 200B(2)(d) (statement of strategy), the other
supplementary matters prescribed are set out in Schedule 2.

#### Review and revision of Part 2 of a scheme’s statement of strategy

14

For the purposes of Article 200B(4) (statement of strategy), the trustees or
managers must review and, if necessary in the light of that review, revise
Part 2 of the scheme’s statement of strategy and prepare a replacement
statement of strategy incorporating it as soon as reasonably practicable after
any review of the scheme’s funding and investment strategy, whether or not the
scheme’s funding and investment strategy is revised.

#### Requirements for chair of trustees

15

A chair of the trustees who signs a statement of strategy prepared for a trust
scheme  on behalf of the trustees under Article 200B(6) (statement of
strategy) must be—

15.a

an individual who is a trustee of the scheme;

15.b

a professional trustee body which is a trustee of the scheme, or

15.c

where a company which is not a professional trustee body is a trustee of the
scheme, an individual who is a director of that company and through whom the
company exercises its functions as trustee of the scheme, or a professional
trustee body which is a director of that company.

#### Part 2 of a scheme’s statement of strategy – level of detail

16

16.1

This regulation makes provision regarding the level of detail required in Part
2 of a statement of strategy.

16.2

In relation to the supplementary matter in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2, Part 2
must set out the proportion of the assets allocated to different categories of
investments.

16.3

In setting out the matters in paragraphs 6, 7 to 9 and 11 to 12 of Schedule 2,
the trustees or managers must explain the evidence on which these are based.

16.4

The Regulator may exercise a discretion as to the level of detail required in
respect of each matter set out in Schedule 2, as the Regulator considers
appropriate.

#### Form of statement of strategy

17

The statement of strategy must be submitted in a form as set out by the
Regulator.

#### Statement of strategy to the Regulator

18

18.1

The trustees or managers of a scheme must send a statement of strategy to the
Regulator at such times and on such occasions as are specified in paragraphs
(2) to (4).

18.2

If the funding and investment strategy is revised after the Regulator has
given directions under Article 210(2)(b)(i) (powers of the Regulator), the
trustees or managers must send the statement of strategy as soon as reasonably
practicable—

18.2.a

after the period of 3 months beginning with the date of directions if the
effective date of the valuation is before the date of the directions, or

18.2.b

after the period of 6 months beginning with the effective date of the
valuation if that is on or after the date of the directions.

18.3

Where the Regulator directs the trustees or managers of a scheme to revise the
scheme’s funding and investment strategy under Article 210(2)(aa), the
trustees or managers must send the statement of strategy as soon as reasonably
practicable after the period of 3 months beginning with the date of the
direction.

18.4

In all other cases, after the trustees or managers of a scheme have prepared
or revised the funding and investment strategy, they must send the statement
of strategy to which the funding and investment strategy relates as soon as is
reasonably practicable.

### AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS

#### Amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Funding) Regulations

19

19.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Funding) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2005  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

19.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

19.2.a

after the definition of “the commencement date” insert—

      “ the Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations ” means the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Funding and Investment Strategy and Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024;

;

19.2.b

in the definition of “the relevant accounts” in paragraph (b) for “valuation.”
substitute  “valuation;” ;

19.2.c

after the definition of “the relevant accounts” add—

      “ relevant date ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the
Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations.

.

19.3

In regulation 7 (actuarial valuations and reports)—

19.3.a

in paragraph (4)—

19.3.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “Schedule 1, and” substitute  “Schedule 1;” ;

19.3.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for “scheme.” substitute  “scheme, and” ;

19.3.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (b) add—

19.3.a.iii.c

the actuary’s estimate of—

19.3.a.iii.c.i

the maturity of the scheme as at the effective date of the valuation;

19.3.a.iii.c.ii

the maturity of the scheme as at the relevant date, where the relevant date is
different from the effective date of the valuation;

19.3.a.iii.c.iii

the date on which the scheme is expected to (or, if applicable, did) reach
significant maturity, and

19.3.a.iii.c.iv

the funding level  of the scheme as at the effective date of the valuation,
calculated in accordance with the requirements in regulation 8(2) of the
Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations (actuarial methods and assumptions
for purposes of funding level) and expressed as a ratio.

;

19.3.b

after paragraph (4) insert—

19.3.b.4A

Where, for the purposes of the actuary’s estimates in paragraph (4)(c), the
actuary is required to use actuarial assumptions, the actuary must use the
assumptions chosen by the trustees or managers of the scheme, in accordance
with the Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations, for the purposes of the
determination or revision of the funding and investment strategy for which the
actuarial valuation is the actuarial valuation to which the funding and
investment strategy relates.

;

19.3.c

in paragraph (6) for “paragraph (4)” substitute  “paragraph (4)(b)” ;

19.3.d

after paragraph (7) add—

19.3.d.8

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(c)(i) to (iii), the estimates are to be
determined in accordance with the principles in regulation 3(1) to (4) of the
Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations (scheme maturity).

19.3.d.9

In paragraph (4A), “ the actuarial valuation to which the funding and
investment strategy relates ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the
Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations.

19.3.d.10

Paragraphs (4)(c), (4A) and (8) apply only in relation to actuarial valuations
with an effective date on or after 22nd September 2024.

.

19.4

In regulation 8  (recovery plan)—

19.4.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

19.4.a.1A

For the purposes of Article 205(3A) , in determining whether a recovery plan
is appropriate having regard to the nature and circumstances of the scheme,
the trustees or managers must follow the principle that the period specified
for the purposes of Article 205(2)(b) must be as soon as the employer can
reasonably afford.

;

19.4.b

in paragraph (2)—

19.4.b.i

in sub-paragraph (d) for “members, and” substitute  “members;” ;

19.4.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (e) for “that person.” substitute  “that person, and” ;

19.4.b.iii

after sub-paragraph (e) add—

19.4.b.iii.f

the impact of the recovery plan on the sustainable growth of the employer.

;

19.4.c

after paragraph (7) insert—

19.4.c.7A

The requirement in paragraph (7)(a) does not apply where the effective date of
the actuarial valuation to which the recovery plan relates is on or after 22nd
September 2024.

19.4.c.7B

Paragraphs (1A) and (2)(f) apply only in relation to recovery plans where the
effective date of the actuarial valuation to which the recovery plan relates
is on or after 22nd September 2024.

.

19.5

In Schedule 2 (modifications of the Order and Regulations) in paragraphs 1(1),
(4) and (6), 4(4), 5(3), 7 and 9 after “Part IV of the Order” insert  “, the
Funding and Investment Strategy Regulations” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 5th
April 2024       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

Funding and investment strategy – matters and principles

Regulation 10

##### Matters

1

In determining or revising a scheme’s funding and investment strategy, the
trustees or managers of the scheme must take into account—

1.a

the actuary’s estimate of the date on which the scheme is expected to (or, if
applicable, did) reach significant maturity, as set out in the actuarial
valuation to which the funding and investment strategy relates;

1.b

the actuary’s estimate of the maturity of the scheme as at the effective date
of the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment strategy
relates, as set out in that actuarial valuation, and

1.c

the objective that on and after the relevant date the assets to which the
minimum funding level relates, as provided for in paragraph 3, are invested in
accordance with a low dependency investment allocation.

##### Principles

2

The trustees or managers of a scheme must, in determining or revising the
scheme’s funding and investment strategy, follow the principles set out in
paragraphs 3 to 5.

##### Minimum requirement on and after the relevant date

3

On and after the relevant date a minimum requirement that a scheme is subject
to is that the scheme has sufficient and appropriate assets such that the
funding level of the scheme calculated in accordance with the requirements in
regulation 8(2) and (3) is as a minimum 1:1 (“the minimum funding level”).

##### Risk in relation to calculation of liabilities on journey plan

4

4.1

The principles set out in sub-paragraph (2) relate to the level of risk that
can be taken by the trustees or managers of a scheme in determining the
actuarial assumptions used for the purposes of calculating the liabilities of
the scheme as it moves along its journey plan.

4.2

The principles are that the level of risk that can be taken—

4.2.a

is dependent on the strength of the employer covenant (so that more risk can
be taken where the employer covenant is stronger and less risk can be taken
where the employer covenant is weaker);

4.2.b

subject to head (a), depends on how near the scheme is to reaching the
relevant date (so that, subject to the strength of the employer covenant, more
risk can be taken where a scheme is a long way from reaching the relevant date
and less risk can be taken where a scheme is near to reaching the relevant
date).

##### Liquidity

5

The assets of the scheme must be invested in investments with sufficient
liquidity to enable the scheme to meet expected cash flow requirements and
make reasonable allowance for unexpected cash flow requirements.

Statement of strategy – supplementary matters

Regulation 13

1

For the purposes of Article 200B(2)(d) (statement of strategy), the other
supplementary matters are set out in paragraphs 2 to 15.

##### Actuarial valuation and recovery plan

2

A summary of the information contained in the actuarial valuation to which the
funding and investment strategy relates.

3

If a recovery plan has been prepared or revised in relation to the actuarial
valuation to which the funding and investment strategy relates, a summary of
the information contained in that plan.

##### Maturity

4

The actuary’s estimate of the maturity of the scheme as at the effective date
of the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment strategy
relates, as set out in that valuation.

5

Where, in accordance with regulation 3(5), the trustees or managers of the
scheme have taken into consideration whether new members may be admitted to
the scheme and the future accrual of benefits—

5.a

a calculation of the duration of liabilities and future accrual based on the
assumptions used, and

5.b

the number of years of future accrual that have been allowed for when
estimating the date of significant maturity.

6

For a scheme which has not reached the relevant date, how the maturity of the
scheme is expected to change over time.

##### Investment risk

7

The level of risk in relation to the intended investment of the assets of the
scheme relating to the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment
strategy relates.

8

For a scheme which has not reached the relevant date—

8.a

the level of risk the trustees or managers of the scheme intend to take in
relation to the investment of the assets of the scheme as it moves along its
journey plan, and

8.b

how the trustees or managers intend to achieve compliance with the matter in
paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 1 by the relevant date.

9

For a scheme which has reached the relevant date, how the level of risk, in
relation to the intended investment of the assets of the scheme relating to
the actuarial valuation to which the funding and investment strategy relates,
complies with the matter in paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 1.

##### Liquidity

10

How the investment of the assets of the scheme complies with the principle in
paragraph 5 of Schedule 1.

##### Employer covenant

11

An assessment of the strength of the employer covenant.

12

How long it is reasonable to rely on this assessment.

##### General

13

The extent to which the funding and investment strategy is or remains
appropriate.

14

Confirmation that the trustees or managers have consulted the employer in
relation to the scheme in the preparation or revision of Part 2 of the
statement of strategy.

15

Any comments that the employer in relation to the scheme has asked to be
included in Part 2 of the statement of strategy.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision relating to the funding of occupational
pension schemes to which Part IV of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005
(“ the 2005 Order ”) (scheme funding) applies. They implement the amendments
to that Part made by Schedule 11 to the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (funding of
defined benefit schemes).

  Part 1 of these Regulations contains preliminary matters and sets out (in
regulation 2) where some of the key concepts used in the Regulations are
defined.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision relating to the new requirement,
in Article 200A of the 2005 Order (funding and investment strategy), for
schemes to have a funding and investment strategy.

  Regulations 3 to 6 define the key concepts underlying how schemes must give
effect to this requirement. In particular, regulation 3 sets out how the
maturity of a scheme is to be measured and the meaning of “ significant
maturity ” in relation to a scheme; regulation 4 sets out the meaning of “ low
dependency investment allocation ” in relation to the assets of a scheme;
regulation 5 sets out the meaning of “ low dependency funding basis ” in
relation to the calculation of the liabilities of a scheme; and regulation 6
sets out the meaning of “strength of the employer covenant” and how it is
assessed.

  Regulation 7 sets out how the “relevant date” is to be determined.

  Regulation 8 sets out the actuarial methods and assumptions to be used for
the purposes of specifying the funding level the trustees and managers intend
the scheme to have achieved as at the relevant date. In particular, the
liabilities of the scheme for this purpose must be calculated on a low
dependency funding basis.

  Regulation 9 ensures that when, in determining or revising a scheme’s
funding and investment strategy, the trustees or managers of a scheme are
required to use actuarial assumptions in the calculation of the liabilities of
a scheme on a low dependency funding basis and the duration of liabilities
measure, the trustees or managers must choose either the same set of
assumptions or, in relation to the economic assumptions in a calculation of
the duration of liabilities measure, the same methodology as is used for
calculating the other assumptions.

  Regulation 10 introduces Schedule 1 which sets out matters the trustees or
managers must take into account, and principles they must follow, in
determining or revising the scheme’s funding and investment strategy. The
matters in Schedule 1 relate to estimates in relation to scheme maturity by
the actuary appointed by the trustees or managers, and investment risk on and
after the relevant date. The principles in Schedule 1 make provision regarding
the minimum requirements that a scheme is subject to on and after the relevant
date; the level of risk that can be taken in relation to the calculation of
the liabilities of the scheme as it moves towards that date; and the liquidity
of the assets of the scheme.

  Regulation 11 makes provision regarding the level of detail required in a
funding and investment strategy.

  Regulation 12 sets out the period within which a funding and investment
strategy must be determined and subsequently reviewed and revised.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision regarding the statement of
strategy. The statement of strategy is prepared by the trustees or managers of
a scheme under Article 200B of the 2005 Order (statement of strategy). It
consists of two parts: Part 1 is a written statement of the funding and
investment strategy, and Part 2 is a written statement of supplementary
matters.

  Regulation 13 introduces Schedule 2 which sets out supplementary matters to
be included in Part 2 of the statement of strategy, in addition to those
required by Article 200B of the 2005 Order.

  Regulation 14 sets out the period within which Part 2 of a statement of
strategy must be reviewed and revised.

  Regulation 15 sets out requirements to be met by the person who is the chair
of the trustees who is required by Article 200B(6) of the 2005 Order to sign
the statement of strategy.

  Regulation 16 makes provision regarding the level of detail required in Part
2 of a statement of strategy.

  Regulation 17 makes provision regarding the form of the statement of
strategy. Regulation 18 makes provision for when the trustees or managers
shall send the statement of strategy to the Pensions Regulator.

  Part 4 of these Regulations amends the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme
Funding) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005. The amendments made by
regulation 19(2), (3) and (5) are to take account of the new requirements
relating to funding and investment strategies. In particular, they make
provision for additional matters to be included in an actuarial valuation. The
amendments made by regulation 19(4) make provision for determining whether a
recovery plan is appropriate having regard to the nature and circumstances of
the scheme.

  As these Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain, the requirement to
consult under Article 289(1) of the 2005 Order does not apply by virtue of
paragraph (2)(e) of that Article.

  An assessment of the cost to business of the Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment, a copy of which has been laid in the Business
Office and the Library of the Northern Ireland Assembly. Copies of the
Assessment are available from the Department for Communities, Social Security
Policy, Legislation and Decision Making Services, Level 8, Causeway Exchange,
1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the website:
https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information . A copy of the
Assessment is also annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available
alongside this Statutory Rule on the website:
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

