Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Master Trusts) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations revoke and re-enact the Occupational Pension Schemes (Master Trusts) (No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“the Master Trusts Regulations”) which would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of section 42(2)(b) of the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 (“the Act”). Like the Master Trusts Regulations, the Regulations implement the new authorisation and supervisory regime for Master Trust pension schemes under the provisions of the Act.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/78

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Master Trusts) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under section 42(2) to (4) of the Pension Schemes Act (Northern
Ireland) 2021 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months
from the date of their coming into operation

    Pensions

  Made   26th March 2024

  Coming into operation   27th March 2024

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 1(3)(b), 4(5), 7(3)(b) and
(4)(a), 8(4), 9(2), 10(4), (6) and (7)(b), 11(2), 12(5) and (6), 15(2), 16(3),
17(3)(a), 18(5)(a), 22(6)(b) and (7), 24(1)(b), (3), (4)(a) and (c) and (5),
25(4), 26(5), 27(4) and (6), 28(2), 30(2) and (4)(b) and (c), 33(4), 36(1),
38(2) and (3), 39(5), 40(1) and (2) and 42(1) of, and paragraphs 1(6) of
Schedule 1 and 5(c) of Schedule 2 to, the Pension Schemes Act (Northern
Ireland) 2021 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes (Master
Trusts) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on
27th March 2024.

### Interpretation and notices

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021; “ active
member ” has the meaning given by Article 121(1) of the 1995 Order; “
additional charge ” means an administration charge for advice, information or
a service provided to a member, including where the member requests a transfer
to another pension scheme; “ the Administration Regulations ” means the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997 ; “ arrangement ” means an allocation of contributions to one or
more investments; “ the Charges and Governance Regulations ” means the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015 ; “ Code ” means a code of practice issued by the Regulator; “
commencement date ” means the date on which section 3 of the Act (prohibition
on operating a scheme unless authorised) came into operation for all purposes;
“ the Companies Act ” means the Companies Act 2006 ; “ default arrangement ”
has the meaning given in regulation 3 of the Charges and Governance
Regulations; “ discounted level ” means a lower level of an administration
charge which applies in particular circumstances, including— a lower level
which applies to members from a particular employer, or a lower level which
applies to a member according to the value of the member’s rights in the
scheme; “ financial regulator ” means the Financial Conduct Authority or the
Prudential Regulatory Authority; “receiving scheme”, except in Schedule 5,
means a pension scheme to which (subject to Part 4ZA  of the Pension Schemes
Act (transfers and contribution refunds) and to provision made by regulations
under section 24(2)(b) and (4) of the Act) members’ accrued rights and
benefits under the scheme are proposed to be transferred; “ scheme year ”
means— a year specified for the purposes of the scheme in any document
comprising the scheme, or if no year is specified under paragraph (a), a
period of 12 months beginning on 1st April or on such other date as the
trustees select; “ service provider ” means a person providing advisory,
administrative, investment or other services in respect of the scheme; “
third-party charge ” means any administration charge imposed on or in respect
of a member by a person other than the trustees; “ the TUPE Regulations ”
means the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006
.

2.2

Except where paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 provides otherwise, Article 277 of the
2005 Order (notification and documents in electronic form) is treated as
applying to notices and notifications issued under these Regulations.

### Connected employers

3

3.1

For the purposes of section 1(3)(b) of the Act (Master Trust schemes:
definition), an employer (“ A ”) is connected with another employer (“ B ”),
and an employer which is a group undertaking of A is connected with an
employer which is a group undertaking of B—

3.1.a

where A and B have separate legal identities but are structured so that the
economic position of the shareholders of each is, as far as practicable, the
same as if they held shares in a single company comprising the combined
businesses of A and B;

3.1.b

where A employs scheme members jointly with B;

3.1.c

in respect of active members of the scheme, following a transfer of those
members to A from B (but see paragraph (3));

3.1.d

where A holds or controls, or in the previous 6 months has held or controlled,
at least 33% of the voting power in B;

3.1.e

where A is, or in the previous 6 months has been, engaged in a joint venture
with B.

3.2

In paragraph (1)—

“ employer ” means a person who employs or engages persons who are members of
the scheme; “ group undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of
the Companies Act; “ joint venture ” means an arrangement, contractual or
otherwise, by which 2 or more parties undertake an economic activity that is
subject to joint control.

3.3

Where the transfer referred to in paragraph (1)(c) is not a relevant transfer
as defined in regulation 2  of the TUPE Regulations, A and B (and their
respective group undertakings) are connected for no more than 6 months
beginning with the date of the transfer.

### Application for authorisation

4

4.1

The following provisions of this regulation apply for the purposes of section
4(5)(a) of the Act (application for authorisation).

4.2

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to each
person acting in a capacity mentioned in section 7(2) or (3) of the Act (fit
and proper persons requirement), is—

4.2.a

in the case of an individual—

4.2.a.i

the person’s full name;

4.2.a.ii

the person’s date of birth;

4.2.a.iii

the title and description of the person’s role in relation to the scheme;

4.2.a.iv

the person’s residential address and address for correspondence, if different,
including any change to the residential address in the 5 years before the date
of the application for authorisation;

4.2.a.v

a criminal conviction certificate obtained by means of an application in
accordance with section 112(1) of the Police Act 1997  or, in relation to the
law of a country outside the United Kingdom, any equivalent document;

4.2.b

in the case of a body corporate within the meaning given by section 1173(1) of
the Companies Act—

4.2.b.i

the full name of each person who exercises a function in respect of or on
behalf of the body corporate acting in such a capacity;

4.2.b.ii

the date of birth of each such person who is an individual;

4.2.b.iii

the residential address and address for correspondence, if different,
including any change to the residential address in the 5 years before the date
of the application for authorisation;

4.2.c

in the case of any person, responses to a list of questions raised by the
Regulator in the application to assess whether the person is a fit and proper
person.

4.3

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to whether
the systems and processes used in running the scheme are sufficient, is—

4.3.a

in the case of a scheme in respect of which an annual statement of governance
has been prepared as required by regulation 23  of the Administration
Regulations, the most recent statement prepared in accordance with that
regulation;

4.3.b

in the case of a scheme in respect of which an annual statement of governance
as required by regulation 23 of the Administration Regulations has not
previously been prepared, a document which contains, as far as practicable,
the information which would be required to be included in a document prepared
under that regulation in respect of the scheme;

4.3.c

in cases where a statement of investment principles  has been prepared in
respect of a scheme in accordance with regulation 2 of the Occupational
Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 , the most
recent statement prepared in accordance with that regulation;

4.3.d

detail of the systems and processes used, or intended to be used, in the
running of the scheme, and whether they have been devised, applied or
maintained by the scheme or a service provider, including details of the
matters set out in Schedule 4.

4.4

An application for authorisation must be accompanied by a fee of—

4.4.a

£41,000 for an existing scheme, or

4.4.b

£23,000 for a scheme which is not an existing scheme.

4.5

In paragraph (4) “ existing scheme ” means a Master Trust scheme which was in
operation before the commencement date.

### Fit and proper persons requirement

5

Schedule 1 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into account in
assessing, for the purposes of section 7 of the Act (fit and proper persons
requirement), whether a person involved in a Master Trust scheme is a fit and
proper person.

### Financial sustainability requirement

6

6.1

Part 1 of Schedule 2 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into
account in deciding, for the purposes of section 8 of the Act (financial
sustainability requirement), whether it is satisfied that a Master Trust
scheme is financially sustainable.

6.2

Part 2 of Schedule 2 sets out the requirements to be met by a Master Trust
scheme and each scheme funder relating to its financing.

### Financial sustainability requirement: business plan

7

7.1

A Master Trust scheme’s business plan must be submitted—

7.1.a

in writing;

7.1.b

in the format set out in a Code, and

7.1.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

7.2

The business plan must contain the information listed in Part 1 of Schedule 3
(but see paragraph (6)).

7.3

The business plan must comply with the requirements set out in a Code in
relation to the matters listed in Part 2 of Schedule 3 (but see paragraph
(6)).

7.4

The information in the business plan must be provided as at the later of—

7.4.a

a date chosen by the scheme strategist, but not earlier than 6 months before
the date when the scheme’s trustees apply to the Regulator for authorisation,
and

7.4.b

where the business plan has been revised as a result of a significant change
to the information contained in it, the date on which the significant change
occurred.

7.5

If a revised business plan is submitted in accordance with section 9(6) of the
Act (financial sustainability requirement: business plan), the business plan
must indicate which parts of it have been revised.

7.6

The Regulator may give notice to the scheme’s trustees stipulating that a
revised business plan submitted during a period when the circumstances in
paragraph (7) apply—

7.6.a

must state that those circumstances apply, and

7.6.b

need not comply with paragraphs (2) and (3).

7.7

The circumstances are—

7.7.a

that the scheme has experienced a triggering event;

7.7.b

that the trustees are pursuing continuity option 1 or 2, and

7.7.c

that the Regulator has approved an implementation strategy in respect of the
scheme.

### Scheme funder requirements: activities

8

8.1

A current or prospective scheme funder which wishes to be exempted from the
requirement in section 10(3) of the Act (that the scheme funder should only
carry out activities that relate directly to Master Trust schemes in relation
to which it is a scheme funder) must submit the following information to the
Regulator in the format required by the Regulator—

8.1.a

the reasons why the scheme funder wishes to be exempted from the requirement;

8.1.b

a description of those activities of the scheme funder which do not relate
directly to the Master Trust scheme;

8.1.c

details of the financial support which the scheme funder will provide to the
Master Trust scheme;

8.1.d

the following financial information in respect of the scheme funder as at the
date on which the information is submitted to the Regulator under this
paragraph—

8.1.d.i

actual turnover, gross margin, overheads and operating profit for the previous
12 months;

8.1.d.ii

a cash flow statement for the previous 12 months, including any undrawn
overdraft facility or revolving credit facility;

8.1.d.iii

forecast and actual profit and loss for the previous 12 months;

8.1.d.iv

budget for the previous 12 months and any variation against that budget;

8.1.d.v

cash resources;

8.1.d.vi

cash flow forecast for the following 4 quarters;

8.1.d.vii

operating costs;

8.1.d.viii

inter-company loans and other forms of funding;

8.1.d.ix

any significant risks to which the scheme funder is exposed and its strategy
for mitigating them;

8.1.e

whether the scheme funder is regulated by a financial regulator and, if so—

8.1.e.i

the identity of that regulator, and

8.1.e.ii

the basis on which the scheme funder’s financial arrangements with the Master
Trust scheme have been accounted for in any capital reserves which the
financial regulator requires the scheme funder to hold;

8.1.f

such other information as the Regulator may require in order to be satisfied
that the scheme funder is giving adequate financial support to the Master
Trust scheme.

8.2

If a current or prospective scheme funder cannot provide some or all of the
financial information referred to in paragraph (1)(d), it must give reasons
for this to the Regulator.

8.3

A current or prospective scheme funder may provide financial information in
addition to that referred to in paragraph (1)(d) if it considers that the
information would assist the Regulator in assessing the scheme funder’s
request for exemption from the requirement in section 10(3) of the Act.

8.4

If the Regulator is satisfied—

8.4.a

that the scheme funder’s arrangements for giving financial support to the
scheme are sufficiently transparent, and

8.4.b

that, on the basis of the information listed in paragraph (1) and any
additional information provided under paragraph (3), section 10(3) of the Act
should not apply to the scheme funder,

the Regulator must notify the scheme funder to that effect, upon which the
requirement in section 10(3) of the Act does not apply.

8.5

The requirement in section 10(3) of the Act does not apply to the trustee
corporation established by section 75 of the Pensions Act 2008 .

### Scheme funder requirements: accounts

9

9.1

Where a scheme funder is a charity, its accounts must meet the requirements in
the Companies Act notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment.

9.2

If a scheme funder has no audited accounts at the time when it becomes a
scheme funder of a Master Trust scheme, the Regulator may require a
proportion, set out in a Code, of the assets required to meet the costs
mentioned in section 8(3) of the Act (financial sustainability requirement) to
be—

9.2.a

deposited in a separate account in the name of the trustees kept with a
deposit taker as defined in Article 49(8A)  of the 1995 Order (other
responsibilities of trustees, etc.) within the period of 3 months from the
date on which it becomes a scheme funder of a Master Trust scheme, and

9.2.b

kept in that account until the date on which the scheme funder submits audited
accounts to the Regulator.

9.3

Regulations 4 and 8 to 10 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008
apply, and regulation 7 of those Regulations does not apply, to a scheme
funder that is—

9.3.a

a Scottish partnership which is a limited partnership;

9.3.b

a Scottish partnership which is not a limited partnership, or

9.3.c

a comparable undertaking incorporated in a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom,

irrespective of whether it is a qualifying partnership as defined in
regulation 3 of those Regulations.

9.4

The provisions of Part 16 of the Companies Act (audit) listed in paragraph (5)
apply to a scheme funder which is—

9.4.a

an undertaking formed or incorporated under the law of a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom, and

9.4.b

not otherwise subject to a requirement to produce audited accounts.

9.5

The provisions are—

9.5.a

Chapter 1 (requirement for audited accounts);

9.5.b

section 495 (auditor’s report on company’s annual accounts);

9.5.c

section 496 (auditor’s report on strategic report and directors’ report);

9.5.d

section 498 (duties of auditor);

9.5.e

section 499 (auditor’s general right to information);

9.5.f

section 503 (signature of auditor’s report);

9.5.g

section 504 (senior statutory auditor);

9.5.h

section 505 (names to be stated in published copies of auditor’s report);

9.5.i

section 506 (circumstances in which names may be omitted).

9.6

The provisions listed in paragraph (5) apply for the purposes of that
paragraph with any necessary modifications to take account of the corporate
structure of the scheme funder.

9.7

An auditor may be appointed for the purposes of the provisions listed in
paragraph (5) only by the members of the scheme funder.

9.8

In the provisions listed in paragraph (5) (as they apply for the purposes of
that paragraph) and in paragraph (7), a reference to “ members ” is a
reference to the persons within that undertaking who are comparable to members
within the meaning given by section 112(1) and (2) of the Companies Act.

9.9

If a triggering event within item 4, 5 or 6 of the table in section 21(6) of
the Act has occurred in relation to a scheme, the Regulator may give notice to
the scheme funder specifying the period within which the scheme funder must
submit its accounts.

9.10

A scheme funder that is partly or wholly funded by an undertaking must provide
to the Regulator the accounts of that undertaking, produced in accordance with
the Companies Act.

### Systems and processes requirements

10

Schedule 4 sets out the matters which the Regulator must take into account
when deciding whether it is satisfied that the systems and processes used in
running a Master Trust scheme are sufficient to ensure that the scheme is run
effectively.

### Continuity strategy: administration charges

11

11.1

For the purposes of section 12(5) of the Act (continuity strategy
requirement), the section of the continuity strategy setting out the levels of
administration charges must set them out as follows.

11.2

The section of the continuity strategy must set out all levels of
administration charges in the current scheme year for each charge structure,
including any discounted levels—

11.2.a

for each arrangement, including a default arrangement, and any different
levels in relation to any one arrangement;

11.2.b

for any additional charges, including the reason for imposing them;

11.2.c

for any third-party charges, including the reason for imposing them;

11.2.d

for any other type of administration charge in the scheme, including the
reason for imposing it.

11.3

The levels must be set out on an annualised basis.

11.4

Where there is a discounted level, the reason for charging the lower level
must also be set out.

### Continuity strategy: information

12

12.1

The following information is specified for the purposes of section 12(6)(a) of
the Act (continuity strategy requirement)—

12.1.a

the steps the trustees would take to decide which continuity option to pursue
(if applicable) and the timescales for taking those steps;

12.1.b

details of—

12.1.b.i

the main decisions and actions that would need to be taken to protect members’
interests during a triggering event period;

12.1.b.ii

the person responsible for taking them, and

12.1.b.iii

the timescales for taking them;

12.1.c

details of strategies for communicating with employers and members, including—

12.1.c.i

the information to be provided, and

12.1.c.ii

the stages at which communication would take place;

12.1.d

details of strategies for communicating with the Regulator;

12.1.e

if applicable, details of how the trustees would choose the receiving scheme;

12.1.f

if applicable, details of how the scheme’s assets and members’ personal data
would be transferred to the receiving scheme;

12.1.g

details of how members’ records are to be maintained during a triggering event
period;

12.1.h

details of how assets held at scheme level would be reconciled with assets
held at member level;

12.1.i

details of how the trustees would comply with any legal requirements and meet
any legal costs arising from a triggering event;

12.1.j

a plan for making decisions on investments when a triggering event occurs, and
for dealing with scheme investments during a triggering event period;

12.1.k

a plan for dealing with any outstanding contributions due from employers and
members;

12.1.l

details of how the scheme’s administrative services would continue after a
triggering event;

12.1.m

details of how service providers would be retained and paid for during a
triggering event period;

12.1.n

details of how implementation of the continuity strategy would be funded.

12.2

A continuity strategy must be prepared—

12.2.a

in writing;

12.2.b

in the format set out in a Code, and

12.2.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

### Supervisory return: contents

13

For the purposes of section 15(2) of the Act (requirement to submit
supervisory return), the Regulator may require the following information to be
included in a supervisory return, to the extent that it has not already been
provided to the Regulator—

13.a

details of how trustees’ competence is being maintained, with particular
reference to their compliance with the knowledge and understanding
requirements in Articles 224, 225  and 226 of the 2005 Order;

13.b

details of the scheme strategist’s professional development;

13.c

where the scheme is an ear-marked scheme as defined in regulation 1(2) of the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Requirement to obtain Audited Accounts and a
Statement from the Auditor) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997 —

13.c.i

the most recent accounts published in relation to each insurance company with
which the trustees or managers of the scheme hold policies of insurance or
annuity contracts falling within the description in that definition, and

13.c.ii

where any such insurance company is part of a group in respect of which there
is a duty to prepare group accounts under section 399  of the Companies Act,
the most recent such accounts which have been published;

13.d

the scheme’s most recent business plan;

13.e

details of the scheme’s current position in relation to its objectives in the
business plan;

13.f

any other information that is relevant to the authorisation criteria listed in
section 5(3) of the Act (decision on application).

### Significant events: notifying the Regulator

14

The following are significant events which must be notified to the Regulator
under section 16 of the Act (duty to notify Regulator)—

14.a

a change or addition to the persons involved with the scheme in the capacities
listed in section 7(2) or (3) of the Act (fit and proper persons requirement),
unless the change or addition is a triggering event;

14.b

an individual who is involved with the scheme in a capacity listed in section
7(2) or (3) of the Act, or whose involvement in the running of the scheme has
been suspended while the individual’s appointment is being considered—

14.b.i

is convicted of an offence;

14.b.ii

enters bankruptcy;

14.b.iii

has—

14.b.iii.aa

a county court judgment registered;

14.b.iii.bb

in England or Wales a County Court judgment registered, or

14.b.iii.cc

in Scotland a decree of the Sheriff Court issued,

against him or her;

14.b.iv

is sanctioned by a regulator other than the Regulator;

14.b.v

is disqualified as a company director;

14.b.vi

has been the subject of an adverse judgment or has reached a settlement in
civil proceedings, particularly in connection with investment or other
financial business, misconduct, fraud or the formation or management of a body
corporate;

14.b.vii

has contravened any of the requirements or standards of a regulator, including
the Regulator;

14.b.viii

has a change of circumstances, through ill health or otherwise, which
materially impairs the individual’s ability to operate in a capacity listed in
section 7(2) or (3) of the Act;

14.b.ix

has any other change of circumstances which the person required to give notice
considers likely to affect the Regulator’s assessment under section 7 of the
Act of whether the individual is a fit and proper person;

14.c

a significant change to the statement of investment principles ;

14.d

a change that requires revision of the business plan under section 9(4) of the
Act;

14.e

a failure to meet a key milestone, target, estimate or assumption in the
business plan;

14.f

the scheme is unable or unlikely to meet its liabilities on demand;

14.g

the scheme is unable or unlikely to meet the level of assets or liquidity
agreed with the Regulator and set out in the business plan;

14.h

except where regulation 28(1) applies to a scheme, a change to the financial
reporting period to be used in the accounts of the scheme or scheme funder;

14.i

a change in the financial information which a scheme funder has supplied to
the Regulator with an application for exemption under regulation 8(1);

14.j

a failure of the systems or processes used in running the scheme which has a
significant adverse effect on the security or quality of data or on service
delivery;

14.k

a significant change to the systems and processes used in running the scheme,
or in any person responsible for delivering key services to the scheme;

14.l

an investigation of the scheme, or of a person involved in the scheme, by a
regulator or other competent authority inside or outside the United Kingdom.

### Fixed and escalating penalties

15

15.1

Where the Regulator issues a fixed penalty notice to a person under section
17(1)  of the Act, the penalty is £500.

15.2

Where the Regulator issues an escalating penalty notice to a person under
section 18(1)  of the Act, the daily rate is determined in accordance with the
table,

15.3

In the first column of the table, Day 1 is the day specified in the escalating
penalty notice, in accordance with section 18(6)(d) of the Act, as being the
date from which the penalty is payable, and subsequent days are numbered
accordingly.

15.4

The second column of the table shows the daily rate payable in respect of each
day when the notice is in force.

15.5

The table is—

Day Daily rate 1 £1,000 2 £2,000 3 £3,000 4 £4,000 5 £5,000 6 £6,000 7 £7,000
8 £8,000 9 £9,000 10 £10,000 Each subsequent day £10,000.

### Triggering events: notification requirements

16

16.1

For the purposes of section 22(6)(b) of the Act (notification requirements),
if a triggering event occurs in relation to a Master Trust scheme, the
trustees must notify the employers of the following matters—

16.1.a

the nature of the triggering event;

16.1.b

except where regulation 28(3) applies to the scheme, that the trustees—

16.1.b.i

have submitted an implementation strategy to the Regulator and the date on
which they did so, or

16.1.b.ii

will submit an implementation strategy to the Regulator by the date specified
in regulation 17, and

16.1.b.iii

in either case, will make the implementation strategy available to the
employers after it has been approved by the Regulator;

16.1.c

the timetable for future communications with the employers.

16.2

Notifications under section 22 of the Act must be given before the end of the
period of—

16.2.a

7 days (in the case of notifications to the Regulator), or

16.2.b

14 days (in the case of notifications to employers),

beginning with the date specified in paragraph (3).

16.3

The specified date is—

16.3.a

the date on which the triggering event occurred (in the case of notifications
made under section 22(2) or (6) of the Act), or

16.3.b

the date on which the person under the duty to notify the Regulator became
aware that the event had occurred (in the case of notifications made under
section 22(4) of the Act).

### Implementation strategy: approval

17

Where trustees are required to submit an implementation strategy to the
Regulator for approval, it must be submitted before the end of the period of
28 days beginning with the date on which—

17.a

the decision to refuse or withdraw authorisation became final, in the case of
a triggering event within item 1, 2 or 2A  of the table in section 21(6) of
the Act, or

17.b

the triggering event occurred, in the case of a triggering event within any
other item of the table in section 21(6) of the Act.

### Implementation strategy: administration charges

18

18.1

The levels to be set out in the section relating to administration charges in
the implementation strategy (“fixed charge levels”) must be set out and
calculated using the following method.

18.2

Where the triggering event period is more or less than a full year, the fixed
charge levels apply on a pro rata basis.

18.3

The method comprises the steps in paragraphs (4), (5) and (6).

18.4

The first step is for the trustees to set out the levels of administration
charges in paragraph (7) for the scheme year in which the triggering event
occurred.

18.5

The second step is for the trustees to set out the levels of administration
charges in paragraph (7) for the scheme year preceding the one in which the
triggering event occurred.

18.6

The third step is for the trustees to—

18.6.a

compare each level from the set of levels for the scheme year in paragraph (4)
with the corresponding level from the set of levels for the scheme year in
paragraph (5), and

18.6.b

take the lower of the 2 levels as the fixed charge level.

18.7

For the scheme year under paragraphs (4) and (5), the trustees must set out
all levels of administration charges for each charge structure, including any
discounted levels—

18.7.a

for each arrangement, including a default arrangement, and any different
levels in relation to any one arrangement;

18.7.b

for any additional charges, including the reason for imposing them;

18.7.c

for any third-party charges, including the reason for imposing them;

18.7.d

for any other type of administration charge in the scheme, including the
reason for imposing it.

18.8

The levels in paragraph (7) must be set out on an annualised basis.

18.9

Where there is a discounted level, the reason for charging the lower level
must also be stated.

### Implementation strategy: content

19

19.1

An implementation strategy must contain—

19.1.a

details of—

19.1.a.i

the main decisions and actions that will be taken, in relation to the
continuity option being pursued, to address the triggering event that has
occurred;

19.1.a.ii

the person responsible for taking them, and

19.1.a.iii

the timescales for taking them;

19.1.b

a communications plan setting out what information will be communicated to
employers and members and when, including information about—

19.1.b.i

the continuity option being pursued, and

19.1.b.ii

key milestones and when they were achieved;

19.1.c

a plan setting out how members’ assets are to be transferred (if applicable);

19.1.d

a plan setting out how the integrity of members’ records will be maintained
during the triggering event period;

19.1.e

a plan setting out how assets held at scheme level are to be reconciled with
assets held at member level;

19.1.f

details of how the trustees will comply with any legal requirements and meet
any legal costs arising from the triggering event that has occurred and the
continuity option being pursued;

19.1.g

details of how scheme investments will be managed during the triggering event
period;

19.1.h

a plan for dealing with any outstanding contributions due from employers and
members;

19.1.i

details of how the scheme’s administrative services will continue during the
triggering event period and how the trustees will implement the continuity
option being pursued;

19.1.j

details of how service providers are to be retained and paid during the
triggering event period;

19.1.k

details of how carrying out the steps identified in the implementation
strategy is to be funded, with particular reference to the continuity option
being pursued.

19.2

An implementation strategy must be prepared—

19.2.a

in writing;

19.2.b

in the format set out in a Code, and

19.2.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

19.3

After approval by the Regulator, the implementation strategy must be made
available to the employers within the period of 7 days beginning with the date
on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the implementation strategy
is approved.

### Continuity option 1: transfer out and winding up

20

Schedule 5 applies when the trustees of a Master Trust scheme—

20.a

are required, or decide, to pursue continuity option 1, and

20.b

propose to transfer members’ accrued rights and benefits under the scheme.

### Continuity option 2: resolving triggering event

21

For the purposes of section 25(4) of the Act (continuity option 2: resolving
triggering event) (or, where applicable, of section 25(4)(d) as substituted by
paragraph 5(c) of Schedule 2 to the Act), the notification must be given
before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which the
triggering event was, in the trustees’ opinion, resolved.

### Periodic reporting requirement

22

22.1

For the purposes of section 30(2) of the Act (periodic reporting requirement),
the first report must be submitted before the end of the period of 14 days
beginning with the date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the
implementation strategy is approved.

22.2

For the purposes of section 30(4)(b) of the Act, periodic reports must record—

22.2.a

decisions made by the trustees and participating employers about the receiving
scheme, and

22.2.b

decisions made by the trustees in relation to arrangements under paragraph 12
of Schedule 5.

22.3

The following information is specified for the purposes of section 30(4)(c) of
the Act—

22.3.a

if the person preparing the periodic report is not an independent trustee
appointed pursuant to Article 23(1)  of the 1995 Order (power to appoint
independent trustees), the name and address of that person;

22.3.b

if an actuary is appointed under Article 47(1)(b) of the 1995 Order
(professional advisers), the name and address of the actuary;

22.3.c

a statement as to whether any of the scheme’s administrative services are
being carried out by a person other than the trustees, including the name and
address of that person;

22.3.d

the timescales for completing the steps identified in the implementation
strategy;

22.3.e

details of whether any particular issues are affecting the trustees’ ability
to pursue or complete the steps identified in the implementation strategy.

22.4

This regulation does not apply to a scheme to which regulation 28(3) applies.

### Fraud compensation

23

23.1

This paragraph applies to a scheme when all the following conditions are met—

23.1.a

the scheme has been authorised by the Regulator under section 5 of the Act;

23.1.b

there are one or more scheme funders and a triggering event within item 4 or 5
of the table in section 21(6) of the Act has occurred in relation to every
scheme funder;

23.1.c

the scheme is pursuing continuity option 1, and

23.1.d

the trustees have submitted the implementation strategy to the Regulator.

23.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the following statutory provisions have effect in
relation to the scheme with the following modifications—

23.2.a

in the 2005 Order omit—

23.2.a.i

Article 165(1)(c), (2) to (4), (6)(a), (8) and (9) (cases where fraud
compensation payments can be made);

23.2.a.ii

in Article 165(6) the words “the later of”;

23.2.a.iii

in Article 165(10) the definition of “the relevant event”;

23.2.a.iv

Article 166 (Board’s duties in respect of certain applications under Article
165);

23.2.a.v

in Article 168(5) (fraud compensation payments)—

23.2.a.v.aa

in sub-paragraph (c) the word “and”;

23.2.a.v.bb

sub-paragraph (d);

23.2.a.vi

paragraph 21 of Schedule 8 (issue of a notice under Article 166);

23.2.b

in regulation 5(3) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Fraud Compensation
Payments and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005
(applications for fraud compensation payments)—

23.2.b.i

in sub-paragraph (c) for “the employer” substitute  “each scheme funder (as
defined in section 39(1) of the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 )”
;

23.2.b.ii

for sub-paragraph (e) substitute—

23.2.b.ii.e

the date the triggering event (as defined in section 39(1) of the Pension
Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021) occurred;

.

### Pause orders

24

24.1

Where a pause order containing a direction under section 31(5)(e) of the Act
(pause orders) has effect in respect of a scheme, section 95  of the Pension
Schemes Act (trustees’ duties after exercise of option) has effect in relation
to that scheme as if for subsection (2)(b) of section 95 there were
substituted—

24.1.b

in the case of an application that relates to money purchase benefits, by the
later of—

24.1.b.i

the last day of the 6 months beginning with the date of the application, or

24.1.b.ii

where a pause order made under section 31(5) of the Pension Schemes Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021 and containing a direction under section 31(5)(e) of
that Act has effect in relation to that scheme before the last day of the
period referred to in sub-paragraph (i), the last day of the 3 months
beginning with the date on which the pause order ceases to have effect.

.

24.2

In regulation 13(1) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996  (extension of time limits for payment of
cash equivalents)—

24.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (ba) omit “or”;

24.2.b

after sub-paragraph (ba) insert—

24.2.b.bb

the scheme is, or within the 3 months immediately before the end of that
period has been, the subject of a pause order under section 31(5) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 which contains a direction under
section 31(5)(e) of that Act (no transfers etc of members’ rights); or

;

24.2.c

in sub-paragraph (c) for “(b) or (ba)” substitute  “(b), (ba) or (bb)” .

### Administration charges

25

25.1

The administration charges that apply in relation to members of a Master Trust
scheme must not include—

25.1.a

costs incurred as a result of buying, selling, lending or borrowing
investments;

25.1.b

where a court order provides for the recovery by the trustees of costs
incurred in complying with the order, the amount of those costs;

25.1.c

charges permitted by regulations made under Article 22 or 38 of the Welfare
Reform and Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1999  (charges by pension
arrangements in relation to earmarking orders and charges in respect of
pension sharing costs);

25.1.d

costs solely associated with the provision of death benefits;

25.1.e

costs solely attributable to holding physical assets.

25.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the costs solely attributable to holding
a physical asset include—

25.2.a

the costs of managing and maintaining the asset;

25.2.b

fees for valuing the asset;

25.2.c

the cost of insuring the asset;

25.2.d

ground rent, charges, rates, taxes and utilities bills incurred in relation to
the asset.

25.3

In this regulation—

“ commodity ” means any goods of a fungible nature that are capable of being
delivered, including metals and their ores and alloys, agricultural products
and energy such as electricity, but not including cash or financial
instruments (within the meaning of Article 3 of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 ); “ physical asset ” means
an asset whose value depends on its physical form, including— land; buildings
and other structures on land or sea; vehicles, ships, aircraft or rolling
stock, and commodities.

### Application of Part 1 of the Act

26

26.1

Part 1 of the Act does not apply to schemes which have all the following
characteristics—

26.1.a

on 20th October 2016, the scheme—

26.1.a.i

was providing non-money purchase benefits (whether alone or in conjunction
with other benefits), and

26.1.a.ii

was used, or intended to be used, by 2 or more employers;

26.1.b

membership of the scheme is limited to members, or former members, of a
pension scheme established by statute for a specific occupational group,
industry or profession;

26.1.c

the scheme ceased to accept new members on a date which is not later than 6
months after the commencement date.

26.2

In paragraph (1)(c), a “ new member ” includes a person who was formerly a
member of the scheme by virtue of a relationship with a previous employer,
except where that person’s employment contract was transferred to the person’s
current employer as a result of a relevant transfer as defined in regulation 2
of the TUPE Regulations.

27

27.1

Part 1 of the Act does not apply to schemes to which one or more of the
following paragraphs apply.

27.2

This paragraph applies where—

27.2.a

the scheme has only one member, and

27.2.b

the member is, or has been, employed by all the employers which use the
scheme.

27.3

This paragraph applies where the scheme is a relevant small scheme as defined
in regulation 1(2ZB)  of the Administration Regulations, and—

27.3.a

the scheme has only one member, or

27.3.b

50% or more of the trustees are members of the scheme.

27.4

This paragraph applies where the only money purchase benefits provided by the
scheme are attributable to one or more of the following—

27.4.a

additional voluntary contributions made by or on behalf of non-money purchase
members of the scheme, in respect of a period when—

27.4.a.i

they are active members of the scheme, or

27.4.a.ii

they have ceased to be active members of the scheme because they have reached
a maximum service limit in relation to the scheme;

27.4.b

money purchase rights or benefits transferred from other pension schemes in
respect of persons who, at the time of the transfer, were active non-money
purchase members of the receiving scheme, where those rights or benefits are
closed to future accrual;

27.4.c

pension credits created pursuant to Article 26 of the Welfare Reform and
Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 (creation of pension debits and
credits).

28

28.1

This paragraph applies to a Master Trust scheme which—

28.1.a

was established before the commencement date;

28.1.b

provides both money purchase benefits and non-money purchase benefits, and

28.1.c

has more than one scheme funder, each of which is a participating employer.

28.2

Where paragraph (1) applies to a scheme, Part 1 of the Act has effect in
relation to that scheme as if the following provisions were omitted—

28.2.a

section 4(2)(b) (requirement to submit the latest accounts of each scheme
funder);

28.2.b

section 7(2)(f) (requirement for the Regulator to assess whether the scheme
funder is a fit and proper person);

28.2.c

in section 9(5) (requirement to approve the business plan and any revisions to
it) the words “each scheme funder,”;

28.2.d

section 10(1), (2) and (3) (scheme funder requirements);

28.2.e

in section 12(8) (requirement to approve the continuity strategy and any
revisions to it) the words “each scheme funder,”;

28.2.f

section 14(3) and (4) (requirement for the scheme funder to submit accounts to
the Regulator);

28.2.g

section 16(2)(e) (duty on a scheme funder to notify the Regulator of
significant events);

28.2.h

section 39(3) (reference in section 10(3) to activities that relate directly
to Master Trust schemes);

28.2.i

in paragraph 4(2)(b) of Schedule 1 (requirement for the Regulator to notify
the scheme funders that an action that contravenes a pause order has been
validated) the words “scheme funders and”.

28.3

This paragraph applies to a scheme where—

28.3.a

paragraph (1) applies to the scheme;

28.3.b

a triggering event within item 4, 5, 6 or 7 of the table in section 21(6) of
the Act has occurred in relation to the scheme, and

28.3.c

the trustees of the scheme have decided to pursue continuity option 2.

28.4

Where paragraph (3) applies to a scheme—

28.4.a

Part 1 of the Act has effect in relation to that scheme as if the following
provisions were omitted—

28.4.a.i

section 20(c) (duty to comply with section 26);

28.4.a.ii

section 26 (approval of implementation strategy);

28.4.a.iii

section 27 (content of implementation strategy);

28.4.a.iv

section 28 (duty to pursue continuity option);

28.4.a.v

section 30(4)(a) (periodic reporting requirement);

28.4.a.vi

section 32 (prohibition on new employers during triggering event period);

28.4.a.vii

section 33 (prohibition on increasing charges etc during triggering event
period);

28.4.a.viii

the definition of “implementation strategy” in section 39(1);

28.4.b

section 31 of the Act has effect in relation to the scheme as if—

28.4.b.i

in subsection (2) for “either of the following two conditions” there were
substituted  “the following condition” ;

28.4.b.ii

subsection (3) were omitted, and

28.4.b.iii

in subsection (4) for “Condition 2” there were substituted  “The condition” ;

28.4.c

regulation 22(3) does not apply, and the following provisions apply for the
purposes of section 30(2) and (4)(c) of the Act (periodic reporting
requirement)—

28.4.c.i

the first report must be submitted before the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the triggering event occurred;

28.4.c.ii

if the person preparing the periodic report is not an independent trustee
appointed pursuant to Article 23(1) of the 1995 Order (power to appoint
independent trustees), the report must contain the name and address of that
person;

28.4.c.iii

if an actuary is appointed under Article 47(1)(b) of the 1995 Order
(professional advisers), the report must contain the name and address of the
actuary;

28.4.c.iv

the report must contain a statement as to whether any of the scheme’s
administrative services are being carried out by a person other than the
trustees, including the name and address of that person;

28.4.c.v

the report must state the actions being taken by the trustees in the absence
of an implementation strategy, the timescales for completing them, and details
of any particular issues affecting the trustees’ ability to pursue or complete
them.

29

29.1

2 or more pension schemes are treated as a single Master Trust scheme for the
purposes of Part 1 of the Act when paragraph (2) or (4) applies.

29.2

This paragraph applies where—

29.2.a

none of the schemes is a Master Trust scheme;

29.2.b

none of the schemes has any of the characteristics set out in paragraph (3);

29.2.c

each scheme provides money purchase benefits (whether alone or in conjunction
with other benefits);

29.2.d

each scheme is used by one employer, or by 2 or more employers which are
connected with one another within the meaning given by section 1(3)(a) of the
Act or regulation 3; and

29.2.e

the schemes are under common control.

29.3

The characteristics are—

29.3.a

the scheme has only one member;

29.3.b

the scheme is a relevant small scheme as defined in regulation 1(2ZB) of the
Administration Regulations and 50% or more of the trustees are members of the
scheme;

29.3.c

the only money purchase benefits provided by the scheme are attributable to
one or both of the following—

29.3.c.i

additional voluntary contributions made by or on behalf of non-money purchase
members of the scheme, in respect of a period when—

29.3.c.i.aa

they are active members of the scheme, or

29.3.c.i.bb

they have ceased to be active members of the scheme because they have reached
a maximum service limit in relation to the scheme;

29.3.c.ii

money purchase rights or benefits transferred from other pension schemes in
respect of persons who, at the time of the transfer, were active non-money
purchase members of the receiving scheme, where those rights or benefits are
closed to future accrual;

29.3.d

the Regulator has appointed a trustee to the scheme pursuant to Article 7  of
the 1995 Order (appointment of trustees) and the scheme is closed to future
contributions, or

29.3.e

all the employers using the schemes are connected with one another within the
meaning given by section 1(3)(a) of the Act or regulation 3.

29.4

This paragraph applies where—

29.4.a

one of the schemes is a Master Trust scheme;

29.4.b

each other scheme is primarily promoted to current or former members of the
Master Trust scheme for the purpose of providing decumulation options, and

29.4.c

all the schemes are under common control.

29.5

For the purposes of this regulation, schemes are under common control where—

29.5.a

they have at least 3 of the following persons in common—

29.5.a.i

a scheme funder (or a person who would be a scheme funder if the scheme were a
Master Trust scheme);

29.5.a.ii

a scheme strategist (or a person who would be a scheme strategist if the
scheme were a Master Trust scheme);

29.5.a.iii

a person who promotes or markets the scheme;

29.5.a.iv

a majority of trustees, or

29.5.b

they have 2 of the persons listed in sub-paragraph (a) in common and the
schemes are—

29.5.b.i

provided by a common service provider, or

29.5.b.ii

subject to the same rules.

### Amendment of the Companies Act

30

30.1

The Companies Act is amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

30.2

In section 384 (companies excluded from the small companies regime)—

30.2.a

in subsection (1)(b)(iii)  after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 ” ;

30.2.b

in subsection (2)(f)  after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

30.3

In section 467 (companies excluded from being treated as medium-sized)—

30.3.a

in subsection (1)(b)(iii)  after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” ;

30.3.b

in subsection (2)(f)  after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

30.4

In section 478(b)(iii)  (companies excluded from small companies exemption)
after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the Pension Schemes Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021” .

30.5

In section 479B(b)(iii)  (companies excluded from the subsidiary companies
audit exemption) after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the Pension
Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

### Amendment of the Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit) (Application of Companies Act 2006) Regulations

31

31.1

The Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit) (Application of
Companies Act 2006) Regulations 2008  are amended in accordance with
paragraphs (2) to (5).

31.2

In regulation 5 (LLPs subject to the small LLPs regime), in modified section
384  of the Companies Act (LLPs excluded from the small LLPs regime)—

31.2.a

in subsection (1)(b)(iii) after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” ;

31.2.b

in subsection (2)(f) after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the Pension
Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

31.3

In regulation 26 (medium-sized LLPs), in modified section 467  of the
Companies Act (LLPs excluded from being treated as medium-sized)—

31.3.a

in subsection (1)(b)(iii) after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the
Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” ;

31.3.b

in subsection (2)(f) after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the Pension
Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

31.4

In regulation 34 (exemption from audit: small LLPs), in modified section
478(b)(iii)  of the Companies Act (LLPs excluded from small LLPs exemption)
after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of the Pension Schemes Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021” .

31.5

In regulation 34A  (exemption from audit: qualifying subsidiaries), in
modified section 479B(a)(iii)  of the Companies Act (LLPs excluded from the
subsidiary LLPs audit exemption) after “Act 2017” insert  “or section 39(1) of
the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

### Amendment of the Overseas Companies Regulations

32

In regulation 38 of the Overseas Companies Regulations 2009  (duty to prepare
accounts), in the introductory text, after “Act 2017” insert  “or section
39(1) of the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021” .

### Revocation

33

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Master Trusts) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023  are revoked.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 26th March
2024 (L.S.) Patrick Rooney A senior officer of the Department for Communities

  FIT AND PROPER PERSONS REQUIREMENT

Regulation 5

1

For the purposes of section 7(4)(a) of the Act, the Regulator must take
account of the following matters when assessing whether a person is fit and
proper to act in a capacity mentioned in section 7(2) or (3) of the Act—

1.a

whether, in Northern Ireland, the person has—

1.a.i

made any arrangement with the person’s creditors;

1.a.ii

petitioned the court for a bankruptcy order;

1.a.iii

been served with a bankruptcy petition;

1.a.iv

been adjudged bankrupt;

1.a.v

been the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order made under paragraph 1 of
Schedule 2A  to the Insolvency Order (including an interim bankruptcy
restrictions order made under paragraph 5 of that Schedule), or

1.a.vi

offered a bankruptcy restrictions undertaking made under paragraph 7 of
Schedule 2A to the Insolvency Order;

1.b

whether, in England and Wales, the person has—

1.b.i

made any arrangement with the person’s creditors;

1.b.ii

applied to an adjudicator under section 263H  of the Insolvency Act for a
bankruptcy order within the meaning given by section 381(2)  of the Insolvency
Act;

1.b.iii

been served with a bankruptcy petition within the meaning given by section
381(3) of the Insolvency Act;

1.b.iv

been made bankrupt within the meaning given by section 381(1)  of the
Insolvency Act;

1.b.v

been the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order made under paragraph 1 of
Schedule 4A  to the Insolvency Act (including an interim bankruptcy
restrictions order made under paragraph 5 of that Schedule), or

1.b.vi

offered a bankruptcy restrictions undertaking made under paragraph 7 of
Schedule 4A to the Insolvency Act;

1.c

whether, in Scotland, the person has—

1.c.i

made any arrangement with the person’s creditors;

1.c.ii

made a debtor application to the Accountant in Bankruptcy for sequestration;

1.c.iii

been served with a petition for sequestration;

1.c.iv

been the subject of an award of sequestration in accordance with section 22 of
the Bankruptcy Act, or

1.c.v

been the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order within the meaning given
by section 155(1) of the Bankruptcy Act (including an interim bankruptcy
restrictions order within the meaning given by section 160 of that Act);

1.d

whether the person has been a director  or partner of, or otherwise concerned
in the management of, a business that has gone into insolvency, liquidation or
administration while the person was concerned with that business or within one
year of their being so concerned;

1.e

whether—

1.e.i

in Northern Ireland, the person has been convicted of any criminal offence,
excluding convictions that are spent within the meaning of the Rehabilitation
of Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 , or

1.e.ii

in Great Britain, the person has been convicted of any criminal offence,
excluding convictions that are spent within the meaning of the Rehabilitation
of Offenders Act 1974 ;

1.f

whether there has been a judgment against the person or the person has reached
a settlement in civil proceedings, particularly in connection with investment
or other financial business, misconduct, fraud or the formation or management
of a body corporate;

1.g

whether—

1.g.i

in Northern Ireland, the person has been subject to a disqualification order
under Article 3(1) of, or a disqualification undertaking under Article 4(1)
of, the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 , or

1.g.ii

in Great Britain, the person has been subject to a disqualification order
under section 1(1) of, or a disqualification undertaking under section 1A(1)
of, the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 ;

1.h

whether the person has contravened any of the requirements or standards of—

1.h.i

a regulator, including the Regulator, or

1.h.ii

the registrar of companies ;

1.i

any information received from—

1.i.i

a regulator, or

1.i.ii

the registrar of companies;

1.j

the person’s conduct in relation to, or arising out of or in connection with,
any work the person has carried out in one or more of the capacities specified
in section 7(2) or (3) of the Act—

1.j.i

in the 5 years before the date of the application for authorisation of the
scheme, and

1.j.ii

at any time since the date of the application for authorisation of the scheme;

1.k

whether—

1.k.i

in Northern Ireland, the person has been prohibited from being a trustee of
any trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of Article 121(1) of
the 1995 Order (interpretation of Part 2), under—

1.k.i.aa

Article 3  of the 1995 Order (prohibition orders), or

1.k.i.bb

any other legislation, or

1.k.ii

in Great Britain, the person has been prohibited from being a trustee of any
trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of section 124(1) of the
Pensions Act 1995  (interpretation of Part 1), under—

1.k.ii.aa

section 3  of the Pensions Act 1995 (prohibition orders), or

1.k.ii.bb

any other legislation;

1.l

whether—

1.l.i

in Northern Ireland, the person has been disqualified from being a trustee of
any trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of Article 121(1) of
the 1995 Order (interpretation of Part 2), under—

1.l.i.aa

Article 29  of the 1995 Order (persons disqualified from being trustees), or

1.l.i.bb

any other legislation, or

1.l.ii

in Great Britain, the person has been disqualified from being a trustee of any
trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of section 124(1) of the
Pensions Act 1995, under—

1.l.ii.aa

section 29  of the Pensions Act 1995 (persons disqualified for being
trustees), or

1.l.ii.bb

any other legislation.

2

For the purposes of section 7(3)(b) of the Act, the Regulator may assess
whether a person who exercises a core function is fit and proper to act in
such a capacity.

3

For the purposes of section 7(4)(a) of the Act, the Regulator must take into
account—

3.a

the knowledge and skills gained from a person’s significant experience as a
trustee, in assessing whether the person is fit and proper to act in that
capacity;

3.b

whether a person has successfully completed the Regulator’s on-line learning
program known as the Toolkit, or an equivalent learning program, in assessing
whether the person is fit and proper to act in the capacity of a trustee of
the scheme;

3.c

the collective expertise and experience of persons acting together in the
capacity of trustees, in assessing whether they are fit and proper to act in
that capacity;

3.d

a person’s relevant experience and professional competence, in assessing
whether the person is fit and proper to act in the capacity of a scheme
strategist;

3.e

the collective expertise and experience of persons acting together in the
capacity of a scheme strategist, in assessing whether they are fit and proper
to act in that capacity.

4

4.1

In this Schedule—

      “ arrangement ” means a voluntary agreement entered into by an
individual with their creditors;           “ the Bankruptcy Act ” means the
Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 ;           “ core function ” includes a
strategic, executive or management role carried out in respect of, or on
behalf of, a person mentioned in section 7(2) or (3) of the Act;           “
the Insolvency Act ” means the Insolvency Act 1986 ;           “ the
Insolvency Order ” means the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 .

4.2

In paragraph 1(a)—

      “bankrupt”, “bankruptcy order”, “bankruptcy petition” have the meanings
given in Article 9(1) of the Insolvency Order;           “the court” is
defined in rule 0.2 of the Insolvency Rules (Northern Ireland) 1991 ;
“ creditor ” has the meaning given in Article 9(1) of the Insolvency Order.

4.3

In paragraph 1(b)—

      “ adjudicator ” has the meaning given by section 385(1)  of the
Insolvency Act;           “ creditor ” has the meaning given by section 383(1)
of the Insolvency Act.

4.4

In paragraph 1(c)—

      “ the Accountant in Bankruptcy ” has the meaning given by section 199(1)
of the Bankruptcy Act;           “ creditor ” has the meaning given by section
383(1) of the Insolvency Act;           “ debtor application ” has the meaning
given by section 228(1) of the Bankruptcy Act;           “ sequestration ” has
the meaning given by section 1 of the Bankruptcy Act.

  FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENT

Regulation 6

##### Matters which the Regulator must take into account

1

The Regulator must take account of the following matters in deciding whether
it is satisfied, for the purposes of section 8(2)(a) of the Act (financial
sustainability requirement), that the business strategy relating to a Master
Trust scheme is sound—

1.a

the structure of the scheme and its target market, including any plans to
acquire or merge with other schemes;

1.b

the objectives for the scheme and the strategy for achieving them, including
delivery milestones;

1.c

the robustness and prudence of the assumptions in the scheme’s business plan
about membership, contributions, income, and costs;

1.d

the scheme’s requirements for planned expenditure, its purpose, and how it
will be funded;

1.e

the terms, security and affordability of loans and other funding provided to
the scheme, and the identity of each associated lender;

1.f

information about the market in which the scheme operates or is to operate;

1.g

the experience and professional competence of the individuals involved in
running the scheme;

1.h

any revisions to the business plan as a result of a significant change of
information;

1.i

whether the scheme has a scheme funder which is not a participating employer
in the scheme;

1.j

where regulation 28(1) does not apply to the scheme and the scheme has a
scheme funder which is engaged in activities which do not relate directly to
the scheme, the scheme’s position in any corporate group and any associated
impact on the scheme’s financial sustainability;

1.k

where the scheme has no scheme funder, the scheme’s strategy for meeting the
costs mentioned in section 8(3) of the Act;

1.l

any provision made by the trustees and each scheme funder to fund contingent
liabilities in respect of the scheme.

2

The Regulator must take account of the following matters in deciding whether
it is satisfied, for the purposes of section 8(2)(b) of the Act, that a Master
Trust scheme has sufficient financial resources to meet the costs mentioned in
section 8(3)(a) of the Act—

2.a

the structure of the scheme and the business strategy relating to it;

2.b

the scheme’s sources of income;

2.c

the estimated cost of setting up and running the scheme;

2.d

the trustees’ strategy for meeting any shortfall between its income and the
costs mentioned in section 8(3)(a) of the Act;

2.e

where the scheme has one or more scheme funders that is an employer, the
financial position of each scheme funder that the Regulator considers
relevant;

2.f

the security and enforceability of loans and other funding commitments
provided to the trustees in respect of the scheme;

2.g

the scheme financing arrangements mentioned in the business plan and entered
into between the trustees and each scheme funder that the Regulator considers
relevant;

2.h

where the scheme has an arrangement with a service provider under which the
service provider accepts the risk that its costs will exceed any fee paid to
it, the provisions made to secure this service and any limitations on the
service provider’s liability for those costs;

2.i

any insurance held by the scheme or the scheme funder in respect of the costs
mentioned in section 8(3)(a) of the Act, including details of—

2.i.i

the insurance provider;

2.i.ii

the policy holder;

2.i.iii

the beneficiary of the policy;

2.i.iv

any limitations on the insurer’s liability.

3

The Regulator must take account of the following matters in deciding whether
it is satisfied, for the purposes of section 8(2)(b) of the Act, that a Master
Trust scheme has sufficient financial resources to meet the costs mentioned in
section 8(3)(b) of the Act—

3.a

the extent and manner in which the trustees have made provision to meet those
costs;

3.b

the amount and classes of assets held by, or available to, the trustees to
meet those costs;

3.c

the robustness and prudence of the estimates and strategy for meeting those
costs in the scheme’s business plan;

3.d

the amount of the scheme’s assets under management or administration;

3.e

the number of members and participating employers in the scheme;

3.f

whether the scheme rules impose liability on any persons for the costs of
winding up the scheme, and if so the identity of those liable;

3.g

the alignment between the actions in the scheme’s continuity strategy and the
estimated cost of taking those actions as identified in the business plan;

3.h

any requirement imposed by a financial regulator for any scheme funder to hold
prudential margins of capital or otherwise to have made provision for its
financial liabilities to the scheme;

3.i

any requirement imposed by a financial regulator for any service provider to
hold prudential margins of capital or otherwise to have made provision for its
financial liabilities to the scheme;

3.j

any insurance held by the scheme or the scheme funder in respect of the costs
mentioned in section 8(3)(a) of the Act, including details of—

3.j.i

the insurance provider;

3.j.ii

the policy holder;

3.j.iii

the beneficiary of the policy;

3.j.iv

any limitations on the insurer’s liability;

3.k

the quality of the scheme’s records and data;

3.l

whether the scheme requires, and has received, the sanction of the court under
Part 7 of Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  for any of its activities;

3.m

whether the members are eligible for compensation in the event of a scheme
failure and, if so, details of—

3.m.i

the compensation provider;

3.m.ii

the basis on which the compensation is payable;

3.m.iii

any limits on the amount of compensation payable.

4

The Regulator must take account of the following information in deciding
whether it is satisfied about the matters mentioned in section 8(2) of the
Act—

4.a

the scheme’s business plan, including any supporting documents and
information;

4.b

the scheme’s accounts;

4.c

the statement of investment principles prepared by the trustees in accordance
with Article 35  of the 1995 Order (investment principles);

4.d

each scheme funder’s accounts and any financial information provided under
regulation 8;

4.e

other relevant documents set out in a Code.

##### Requirements to be met by Master Trust schemes and scheme funders

5

A Master Trust scheme and each scheme funder must meet the following
requirements in relation to the scheme’s financing—

5.a

any assets held by the trustees or a scheme funder to meet the costs mentioned
in section 8(3) of the Act must be—

5.a.i

of the classes and in the proportions set out in a Code;

5.a.ii

valued in accordance with any discounted rates set out in a Code, and

5.a.iii

available to be used when the relevant cost falls due;

5.b

the scheme’s trustees must have first call on the assets referred to in sub-
paragraph (a);

5.c

any funding commitment made to the scheme by a scheme funder or an employer
must be given in writing and duly executed by the party making the commitment;

5.d

where a scheme funder operates more than one Master Trust scheme, the funds
allocated to each scheme must be separately identified to the Regulator;

5.e

where the assets include cash in a greater proportion than that set out in a
Code, the Regulator may require trustees to hold a proportion of the assets
set out in a Code in a separate account kept with a deposit taker as defined
in Article 49(8A)  of the 1995 Order (other responsibilities of trustees,
employers, etc.).

6

6.1

This paragraph applies in respect of a Master Trust scheme—

6.1.a

that was established before the commencement date;

6.1.b

that provides both money purchase benefits and non-money purchase benefits;

6.1.c

that has financial resources that are insufficient to meet the costs mentioned
in section 8(3) of the Act, as estimated in the business plan, and

6.1.d

where employers are required to meet those costs.

6.2

Where this paragraph applies, the amount by which the scheme’s financial
resources are less than the costs mentioned in section 8(3) of the Act, as
estimated in the business plan (“ the shortfall ”) must be guaranteed from the
following sources—

6.2.a

as to no less than 25% of the shortfall, in the form of assets that are
available to be used when the relevant cost falls due;

6.2.b

as to a proportion of the shortfall determined by the Regulator, in the form
of a binding guarantee from the participating employers, and

6.2.c

as to a proportion of the shortfall determined by the Regulator, in the form
of assets that are available for use within a period agreed by the Regulator.

  THE BUSINESS PLAN

Regulation 7

##### Information to be included in the business plan

###### General

1

The effective date of the business plan.

2

The period to which the business plan relates, to be no less than 3 years and
no more than 5 years starting with the effective date (the “plan period”).

3

In each case where this Schedule or a Code requires estimates to be provided
in connection with the business plan—

3.a

the assumptions used in reaching those estimates, and

3.b

the circumstances in which, and the extent to which, the scheme’s actual
costs, income and size may vary from the estimates.

4

The name of the person who prepared the business plan.

5

A statement, signed by the trustees, each scheme funder and, if different, the
scheme strategist, confirming—

5.a

that each scheme funder considers (or, in the absence of a scheme funder, the
trustees consider) the business plan to give a true and fair representation of
the matters to which it relates, and

5.b

that the business plan, and any revisions to it, have been approved by the
trustees, each scheme funder and, if different, the scheme strategist,

but this paragraph does not apply to scheme funders of schemes to which
regulation 28(1) applies.

###### Information about the Master Trust scheme

6

The registered name of the scheme.

7

If different, any trading or brand name under which the scheme is promoted or
marketed.

8

The date when the scheme was established.

9

The address of the scheme’s registered office.

10

The name of—

10.a

each scheme trustee;

10.b

each scheme funder (except where regulation 287(1) applies to the scheme), and

10.c

each scheme strategist.

11

The name and address of any scheme administrator.

12

The number of participating employers.

13

The number of members, broken down into active members, deferred members and
pensioner members.

14

The numbers of members joining, transferring from and leaving the scheme in
the 3 years ending with the effective date.

15

The scheme’s pension registry number.

16

The scheme’s HM Revenue & Customs reference number.

###### Information about scheme funders

17

If a scheme funder has a single shareholder or is, in the Regulator’s opinion,
reliant on a single individual, details of the succession planning in the
event that the shareholder or single individual ceases to be connected to the
scheme funder.

18

Where section 10(3) of the Act (scheme funder requirements) applies to a
scheme funder, a description of those of its activities which do not relate
directly to the scheme.

19

Whether a scheme funder is regulated by a financial regulator other than the
Regulator and, if so, the identity of that regulator.

###### Information about the scheme strategist

20

A declaration as to the overall competence of the scheme strategist, with
particular reference to the scheme strategist’s experience, knowledge,
professional qualifications, and plans to improve that competence by way of
continuous professional development or otherwise.

###### Information following a triggering event

21

Where a triggering event has reduced the value of the assets available to the
scheme, the plans and timetable for restoring the scheme’s assets to a level
likely to satisfy the Regulator that the scheme is financially sustainable.

##### Requirements relating to the business plan to be set out in a Code

22

Information to be provided by schemes which provide non-money purchase
benefits.

23

The scheme’s objectives and its strategy for meeting them.

24

Costs in relation to money purchase benefits.

25

Assets and liquidity in relation to costs.

26

Income in relation to money purchase benefits.

27

Profit and loss in relation to money purchase benefits.

  SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES REQUIREMENTS

Regulation 10

##### Features and functionality of IT systems

1

Whether the IT systems have the capacity and capability—

1.a

to process financial transactions securely and accurately, including the core
transactions described in regulation 24(2)  of the Administration Regulations
(requirements for processing financial transactions);

1.b

to make and receive electronic payments;

1.c

to accept contributions from multiple sources;

1.d

to exchange data with other IT systems, including those used by employers and
service providers;

1.e

to reconcile data on transactions and produce reports so that those activities
can be monitored and transaction errors rectified promptly;

1.f

to identify and categorise transactions and payments for authorisation and
countersigning at an appropriate level of authority;

1.g

to be updated to reflect changes in the legal requirements affecting
transactions, payments and records, including changes in tax thresholds, the
annual allowance and the lifetime allowance.

##### Standards required of IT systems

2

Whether the IT systems—

2.a

are of sufficient standard to allow the scheme to meet its objectives as set
out in the business plan;

2.b

are capable of being upgraded to reflect changes in required transactions and
capacity;

2.c

have restricted physical and electronic access, with firewalls and other
appropriate protection against viruses and other threats;

2.d

have a back-up system which allows data to be recovered if the main system
fails.

##### Maintenance of IT systems

3

Whether the IT systems—

3.a

are maintained at regular intervals, either automatically or by a person with
the appropriate skills and experience;

3.b

are backed up and updated regularly, including the maintenance of firewalls
and other preventative systems;

3.c

are monitored to ensure that their capacity is sufficient for the size of the
scheme.

##### Member records

4

Whether the scheme’s systems and processes ensure that—

4.a

there is an accurate record of each member’s details, including the
contributions made in respect of each active member for each pay period, on
the relevant IT system;

4.b

any unpaid contribution in respect of active members can be explained to the
Regulator and remedied;

4.c

members’ records are reviewed regularly for completeness and accuracy and
updated promptly with changes of information;

4.d

errors in members’ records can be identified and addressed, and any financial
impact of such errors on members can be rectified;

4.e

records are maintained in respect of each member in decumulation for each
financial year including—

4.e.i

the method of decumulation;

4.e.ii

the total amount withdrawn from the scheme and the amount taken as free from
income tax, and

4.e.iii

the amount of pension income received.

##### Trustees and others

5

Whether there are systems and processes—

5.a

for the fair and transparent recruitment, appointment, resignation and removal
of trustees;

5.b

for determining and recording that persons involved in the scheme in the
capacities listed in section 7(2) and (3) of the Act (fit and proper persons
requirements) are, and remain, fit and proper;

5.c

for monitoring and recording trustees’ learning and development, and for
ensuring that it is appropriate to the scheme’s activities;

5.d

in relation to meetings of trustees, including—

5.d.i

the intervals at which meetings of trustees are to take place;

5.d.ii

the number of trustees required to authorise decisions on risk management,
resource planning and investments;

5.d.iii

the process for managing the scheme’s business between meetings of the
trustees;

5.e

for recording, maintaining and managing all documents relating to the trustees
in an accessible, intelligible and durable medium;

5.f

for managing the scheme’s business if one or more trustees are absent.

##### Contracts and service providers

6

Whether there are systems and processes—

6.a

for ensuring that trustees and the scheme strategist are properly informed
about service providers, and appropriately involved in decisions about them;

6.b

for establishing and recording that service providers are, and remain, fit and
proper;

6.c

for informing the trustees about the appointment, removal, roles and
responsibilities of service providers;

6.d

for informing the trustees of—

6.d.i

any failure by service providers to deliver services;

6.d.ii

any actions or omissions by service providers which may prejudice—

6.d.ii.aa

the effective running of the scheme, or

6.d.ii.bb

the ability to meet the objectives set out in the scheme’s business plan;

6.e

for recording, maintaining and managing all documents relating to service
providers in an accessible, intelligible and durable medium.

##### Risk management

7

Whether there are systems and processes—

7.a

for identifying, managing and monitoring operational, financial, regulatory
and compliance risks;

7.b

for recording and documenting risks in an appropriate and durable format;

7.c

for ensuring that risks are managed in a timely manner by the appropriate
persons;

7.d

for informing the trustees about risks that have arisen and the steps being
taken to manage them.

##### Security

8

Whether there are systems and processes—

8.a

for preventing unauthorised access to sensitive records and infrastructure,
including those containing member information, financial details or investment
information;

8.b

for monitoring and recording electronic and physical access to sensitive
records and infrastructure;

8.c

for ensuring the secure transfer of physical and electronic data and the
secure conduct of transactions.

##### Resource planning

9

Whether there are systems and processes for ensuring that there are sufficient
human resources with the skills, qualifications and capacity necessary to
comply with the requirements of Part 1 of the Act and, in particular—

9.a

to run and maintain the scheme’s systems and processes;

9.b

to meet the objectives in the scheme’s business plan, and

9.c

to send appropriate and timely notifications, information and documents to the
Regulator, including information about the scheme’s systems and processes.

##### Investments

10

Whether there are systems and processes—

10.a

for investing contributions in a timely manner in accordance with members’
instructions or, in the absence of instructions, with the scheme’s default
investment policy;

10.b

for recording investment decisions and the associated instructions from
members, or confirmation that a decision has been made without instructions;

10.c

for managing the scheme’s interaction with investment managers, and recording
key decisions;

10.d

for recording, managing and reviewing the risks associated with investment
decisions;

10.e

for informing trustees about questions, decisions and risks relating to
investments;

10.f

for ensuring that members receive timely and appropriate investment
information and prompt replies to their enquiries and correspondence.

##### Member communication

11

Whether there are systems and processes—

11.a

for facilitating members’ engagement with the scheme;

11.b

for bringing members’ views to the attention of the trustees;

11.c

for directing members’ complaints to the correct channels for resolution.

  CONTINUITY OPTION 1: TRANSFER OUT AND WINDING UP

Regulation 20

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this Schedule—

      “ applicable scheme ” means whichever of the employer default scheme or
the trustee default scheme was included in the notice sent to members under
paragraph 5;           “ employer default scheme ” means the alternative
scheme nominated by an employer in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(b);
“ receiving scheme ” means the trustee default scheme, the employer default
scheme or an alternative scheme to which member benefits are to be
transferred;           “ transfer date ” means the date on which the accrued
rights and benefits of members of the transferring scheme are transferred to a
receiving scheme;           “ transferring scheme ” means the Master Trust
scheme referred to in regulation 20;           “ trustee default scheme ”
means the pension scheme identified by the trustees under section 24(1)(a) of
the Act (continuity option 1: transfer out and winding up).

1.2

Notices given under this Schedule must be sent—

1.2.a

in writing, by post or by email;

1.2.b

to the addressee’s last known address, and

1.2.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

1.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), a person’s email address is—

1.3.a

any email address provided for the time being by that person as an address for
contacting that person, or

1.3.b

if no such address has been provided, any email address by means of which the
sender reasonably believes that the notice will come to the attention of that
person or (where that person is a body corporate) any director or other
officer of that body corporate.

1.4

A notice under this Schedule sent to a person by email is taken to have been
received by that person 48 hours after it is sent.

1.5

This Schedule overrides any provision of the Master Trust scheme to the extent
that there is a conflict.

##### Calculation of cash equivalent

2

2.1

In this Schedule, a “cash equivalent” of any rights and benefits to which a
member is entitled is the realisable value of those rights and benefits.

2.2

A cash equivalent must be calculated—

2.2.a

in accordance with these Regulations and with the rules of the scheme to which
it relates;

2.2.b

in a manner which is approved by the trustees;

2.2.c

as an estimate as at the date when the employers are informed of the transfer
date under paragraph 9, and

2.2.d

as a final figure as at the transfer date.

2.3

In calculating a cash equivalent, account must be taken of any surrender,
commutation or forfeiture of the whole or part of a member’s pension.

##### Trustees’ powers

3

3.1

The trustees of a scheme that is pursuing continuity option 1 may, without
members’ consent, provide—

3.1.a

for either—

3.1.a.i

a member’s accrued rights and benefits (including any transfer credits allowed
under the scheme) to be transferred, or

3.1.a.ii

a transfer payment in respect of a member’s rights to be made,

to a trustee default scheme or an employer default scheme in accordance with
this Schedule, with a view to acquiring transfer credits for the member under
that scheme, or

3.1.b

for arrangements to be made in accordance with paragraph 12 (trustees’ power
to transfer otherwise than to a scheme).

3.2

A transfer payment made under sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) must be of an amount at
least equal to the cash equivalent of the member’s rights under the scheme,
calculated in accordance with paragraph 2.

3.3

The trustees of a scheme that is pursuing continuity option 1 may, where
appropriate, decline a member’s request for a drawdown pension (as defined in
paragraph 4 of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004 ) (drawdown pension) in the
transferring scheme.

3.4

A transfer, transfer payment or alternative arrangement under this paragraph
is prescribed for the purposes of section 69(4)(b) of the Pension Schemes Act
(form of short service benefit and its alternatives).

##### Trustees’ first notice to employers and members

4

4.1

When the trustees have identified the trustee default scheme, they must send a
notice to each participating employer, each member and the trustees of the
trustee default scheme.

4.2

A notice under this paragraph must be sent within the period of 14 days
beginning with—

4.2.a

the date on which the trustees identify the trustee default scheme, or

4.2.b

if later, the date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the
implementation strategy has been approved.

4.3

A notice sent to a member under this paragraph must include information about—

4.3.a

where the member can obtain guidance about the proposed transfer;

4.3.b

the member’s right to choose whether his or her accrued rights and benefits in
the transferring scheme are transferred to—

4.3.b.i

a scheme selected by the trustees or, where applicable, the member’s employer,
or

4.3.b.ii

an alternative scheme selected by the member;

4.3.c

the member’s right to require the cash equivalent of his or her accrued rights
and benefits to be used to buy one or more policies as set out in paragraph
7(1)(b), and

4.3.d

the timetable for future communication with the member.

4.4

A notice sent to an employer under this paragraph must include information
about—

4.4.a

the trustee default scheme, including its name;

4.4.b

the expected date on which the transferring scheme will stop accepting
contributions;

4.4.c

the employer’s options for complying with its automatic enrolment duties when
the transferring scheme has stopped accepting contributions;

4.4.d

where the employer can obtain guidance about the proposed transfer;

4.4.e

the employer’s option to nominate an employer default scheme in respect of its
workers who are active members of the transferring scheme;

4.4.f

the fact that if the employer does not nominate an employer default scheme,
active members will be transferred to the trustee default scheme, and

4.4.g

the timetable for future communication with the employer.

4.5

A notice sent to the trustees of the trustee default scheme under this
paragraph must state that the trustee default scheme has been selected under
section 24(1)(a) of the Act (continuity option 1: transfer out and winding
up).

##### Employer’s response to trustees

5

5.1

Each employer which receives a notice under paragraph 4 must give notice to
the trustees of whether—

5.1.a

it accepts the choice of trustee default scheme in relation to members then
employed by it, or

5.1.b

it opts to nominate an alternative scheme (the trustees of which are able and
willing to accept the transfer) as the employer default scheme for those
members, in which case it must state the name of that scheme and inform the
trustees of that scheme that it has been so nominated.

5.2

Each employer that has opted to nominate an alternative scheme as the employer
default scheme must give notice of that nomination to those of its workers who
are active members of the transferring scheme.

5.3

A notice to trustees or workers under this paragraph must be sent within the
period of 8 weeks beginning with the date when the employer received the
notice under paragraph 4.

5.4

If the trustees receive no notice from an employer under this paragraph, the
employer is deemed to have accepted the trustee default scheme as the default
scheme for members then employed by it.

##### Trustees’ second notice to members

6

6.1

After the period allowed for employers to send notice to the trustees under
paragraph 5, the trustees must send a second notice to each member of the
transferring scheme.

6.2

A notice under this paragraph must be sent within the period of 3 months
beginning with the day on which the trustees sent notice to members and
employers under paragraph 4.

6.3

A notice under this paragraph must state—

6.3.a

the proposed transfer date;

6.3.b

if the member’s employer has not nominated an employer default scheme—

6.3.b.i

the fact that the member will be transferred to the trustee default scheme
unless the member specifies otherwise, and

6.3.b.ii

the name of, and information about—

6.3.b.ii.aa

the trustee default scheme, and

6.3.b.ii.bb

the default arrangement in that scheme;

6.3.c

if the member’s employer has nominated an employer default scheme—

6.3.c.i

the fact that the member will be transferred to the employer default scheme
unless the member specifies otherwise, and

6.3.c.ii

the name of, and information about—

6.3.c.ii.aa

the employer default scheme, and

6.3.c.ii.bb

the default arrangement in that scheme;

6.3.d

the member’s ability to obtain information about arrangements from the
applicable scheme;

6.3.e

the fact that the member’s funds will be allocated to the default arrangement
unless the member specifies otherwise;

6.3.f

where the member can obtain guidance about the proposed transfer;

6.3.g

the member’s right to choose whether the member’s accrued rights and benefits
in the transferring scheme are transferred to—

6.3.g.i

the applicable scheme, or

6.3.g.ii

an alternative scheme selected by the member;

6.3.h

the requirement for a member who has selected an alternative scheme to send
the trustees of the transferring scheme a notice that meets the requirements
of paragraph 7(2);

6.3.i

the member’s rights under Part 4ZA  of the Pension Schemes Act (transfers and
contribution refunds);

6.3.j

the member’s right to require the cash equivalent of the member’s accrued
rights and benefits to be used to buy one or more policies as set out in
paragraph 7(1)(b);

6.3.k

the consequences for the member of his or her choice of receiving scheme, with
particular reference to its effect on payment of contributions by the member’s
employer;

6.3.l

the timetable for future communication with members.

##### Member’s response to trustees

7

7.1

A member who has received notice from the trustees under paragraph 6 may give
notice to the trustees requiring them—

7.1.a

to transfer the member’s accrued rights and benefits in the transferring
scheme to—

7.1.a.i

the applicable scheme, or

7.1.a.ii

an alternative scheme selected by the member, the trustees of which are able
and willing to accept the transfer, or

7.1.b

to use the cash equivalent of the member’s accrued rights and benefits to
purchase one or more policies from one or more insurers authorised by the
Financial Conduct Authority  for carrying on long-term insurance business in
the United Kingdom.

7.2

A notice under this paragraph—

7.2.a

must be sent within the period of 3 months beginning with the day when the
member received notice from the trustees under paragraph 6 (“the option
period”), and

7.2.b

must contain sufficient information about the alternative scheme referred to
in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) or the destination of the cash equivalent referred
to in sub-paragraph (1)(b), including bank account details, necessary for the
trustees to comply with paragraph 8(1).

7.3

An alternative scheme selected by the member must be—

7.3.a

a Master Trust scheme authorised under the Act, or

7.3.b

a personal pension scheme as defined in section 1 of the Pension Schemes Act
(categories of pension schemes).

##### Trustees’ duty to transfer

8

8.1

If the trustees receive notice from a member in accordance with paragraph 7,
they must—

8.1.a

arrange for the member’s accrued rights and benefits to be transferred, or the
member’s cash equivalent applied, as specified in the notice;

8.1.b

notify the member of the value of the cash equivalent of his or her accrued
rights if the member is not yet receiving benefits under the transferring
scheme, and

8.1.c

notify the member of the value of his or her remaining benefits if the member
is receiving benefits under the transferring scheme.

8.2

If the trustees do not receive notice from a member under paragraph 7, the
member’s accrued rights and benefits must be transferred to the applicable
scheme.

8.3

Any transfer of a member’s rights and benefits, and any application of a
member’s cash equivalent, under this paragraph must be made within the period
of 3 months beginning with the end of the option period referred to in
paragraph 7(2)(a).

##### Notice of expected transfer date

9

Not less than one month before the expected transfer date, the trustees must
notify each participating employer of the expected transfer date.

##### Transfer requirements: choice of arrangements

10

10.1

The trustees of the applicable scheme must, as soon as reasonably practicable,
contact each member whose accrued rights or benefits are to be transferred to
that scheme and must invite them to select an arrangement of the applicable
scheme into which those rights or benefits are to be transferred.

10.2

The accrued rights of members who do not respond to the applicable scheme
within 8 weeks after the date on which they received the invitation referred
to in sub-paragraph (1) must remain in an arrangement which—

10.2.a

meets the conditions for use as the default arrangement of the applicable
scheme, and

10.2.b

complies with Chapter 1  (default arrangements, non-contributing members and
payments to advisers) of Part 2 (restrictions on charges) of the Charges and
Governance Regulations.

##### Requirements to be met by default schemes

11

The trustee default scheme and any employer default scheme must each be—

11.a

a Master Trust scheme authorised under the Act, and

11.b

an automatic enrolment scheme in relation to the members being transferred, as
defined in section 17 of the Pensions (No. 2) Act (automatic enrolment
schemes), or a scheme which would be an automatic enrolment scheme if the
members being transferred were jobholders as defined in section 16(1) of that
Act.

##### Trustees’ power to transfer otherwise than to a scheme

12

12.1

Where the trustees cannot identify a scheme which they consider appropriate
for use as a default scheme in respect of a member of the transferring scheme,
the trustees may make arrangements to transfer that member’s accrued rights
and benefits to a vehicle which will secure suitable benefits for the member
that are comparable to those in the transferring scheme.

12.2

Before making arrangements under sub-paragraph (1), the trustees must notify
the members to whom the arrangements relate of their intention to do so.

12.3

The arrangements permitted by sub-paragraph (1) are the purchase of one or
more policies from one or more insurers authorised by the Financial Conduct
Authority for carrying on long-term insurance business in the United Kingdom.

12.4

A transfer under sub-paragraph (1) is prescribed for the purposes of section
69(4)(b) of the Pension Schemes Act (form of short service benefit and its
alternatives).

##### Administration charges

13

13.1

For the purposes of section 24(5)(i) of the Act (continuity option 1: transfer
out and winding up), the trustees of an applicable scheme must provide to the
Regulator a document setting out the administration charges in accordance with
the following provisions.

13.2

The document must be provided within the period of 28 days beginning with—

13.2.a

in the case of the trustee default scheme, the date on which the trustees
received notice from the trustees of the transferring scheme under paragraph
4(1), or

13.2.b

in the case of an employer default scheme, the date on which the trustees
received notice from the employer under paragraph 5(1)(b).

13.3

The document must set out all levels of administration charges for each charge
structure, including any discounted levels—

13.3.a

for each arrangement, including a default arrangement, and any different
levels in relation to any one arrangement;

13.3.b

for any additional charges, including the reason for imposing them;

13.3.c

for any third-party charges, including the reason for imposing them, and

13.3.d

for any other type of administration charge in the scheme, including the
reason for imposing it.

13.4

The charges must be set out as at the most recent date, not falling within a
triggering event period in relation to the transferring scheme, on which the
applicable scheme submitted a continuity strategy to the Regulator.

13.5

The levels must be set out on an annualised basis.

13.6

Where there is a discounted level, the reason for charging the lower level
must also be set out.

13.7

The document must include a statement explaining—

13.7.a

how the applicable scheme has complied with section 33(2) of the Act
(prohibition on increasing charges during triggering event period);

13.7.b

whether the applicable scheme is liable for the costs mentioned in section
33(3) of the Act, and

13.7.c

if the applicable scheme is liable for those costs, how it is to meet them.

##### Future contributions

14

The trustees of a scheme that is pursuing continuity option 1 may—

14.a

arrange for the future contributions of employers and active members to be
paid to the trustee default scheme from a date to be decided by the trustees,
and

14.b

arrange for any contributions received from employers and active members after
the date referred to in sub-paragraph (a) to be forwarded to the trustees of
the applicable scheme.

##### Cessation of accruals

15

15.1

On the transfer date, the trustees of the transferring scheme are discharged
from any obligation to receive contributions from members or maintain
arrangements for the accrual of rights to benefits in respect of them.

15.2

When the accrued rights and benefits of members of the transferring scheme
have been transferred to a receiving scheme, the trustees of the transferring
scheme are discharged from any obligation to provide benefits to those
members.

15.3

This paragraph does not apply in respect of members who are transferring out
of the scheme in accordance with Part 4ZA of the Pension Schemes Act
(transfers and contribution refunds).

##### Winding up

16

The Regulator may direct the trustees of the transferring scheme to wind up
the scheme where continuity option 1 is being pursued.

##### Regulator’s power to direct

17

The trustees of a Master Trust scheme must comply with a direction issued by
the Regulator requiring them to do anything permitted or required by this
Schedule.

##### Civil penalties

18

Article 10 of the 1995 Order (civil penalties) applies to a person who fails
to comply with a requirement imposed by this Schedule, including where the
requirement is contained in a direction made under it.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations revoke and re-enact the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Master Trusts) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (“ the Master
Trusts Regulations ”) which would otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of
section 42(2)(b) of the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 (“ the Act
”). Like the Master Trusts Regulations, the Regulations implement the new
authorisation and supervisory regime for Master Trust pension schemes under
the provisions of the Act.

  Regulation 3 sets out when one employer is treated as connected with another
employer for the purpose of section 1(3)(b) of the Act.

  Regulation 4 sets out the information to be included in a Master Trust
scheme’s application for authorisation by the Pensions Regulator (“the
Regulator”) under section 4 of the Act, and specifies the application fee
payable to the Regulator.

  Regulation 5 introduces Schedule 1, which sets out the matters that the
Regulator must take into account in assessing whether a person involved in a
Master Trust scheme is a fit and proper person.

  Regulation 6 introduces Schedule 2, which sets out the matters that the
Regulator must take into account in deciding whether it is satisfied that a
Master Trust scheme is financially sustainable.

  Regulation 7 and Schedule 3 contain requirements in relation to the business
plan which a Master Trust scheme must submit to the Regulator under section 9
of the Act.

  Regulation 8 sets out the requirements on scheme funders which are applying
for exemption from the requirement, in section 10(3) of the Act, that they
should only carry out activities that relate directly to Master Trust schemes
that they are, or will be, funding.

  Regulation 9 contains requirements in respect of a scheme funder’s accounts
and auditing, and requirements in respect of any undertaking funding a scheme
funder.

  Regulation 10 introduces Schedule 4, which sets out the matters that the
Regulator must take into account in deciding whether it is satisfied that the
systems and processes used in running a Master Trust scheme are sufficient to
ensure that it is run effectively.

  Regulation 11 contains requirements in respect of the section of a Master
Trust scheme’s continuity strategy which sets out the levels of administration
charges imposed by the scheme. (The continuity strategy is a document
addressing how members’ interests will be protected if a triggering event
occurs in relation to the scheme.)

  Regulation 12 specifies the information which the continuity strategy must
contain, and how it must be prepared.

  Regulation 13 sets out the information which the Regulator may require to be
included in the supervisory return (a document which it may require schemes to
submit in writing).

  Regulation 14 lists the significant events in relation to the scheme which
must be notified to the Regulator.

  Regulation 15 sets out the fixed and escalating penalties that the Regulator
can impose on a person that has not complied with a request for information.

  Regulation 16 contains the matters which the trustees of a scheme must
notify to employers who use the scheme when a triggering event occurs in
relation to the scheme.

  Regulation 17 sets the deadlines for a scheme’s implementation strategy to
be submitted when it requires approval by the Regulator (the implementation
strategy is a document setting out how members’ interests are to be protected
after a triggering event has occurred in relation to the scheme).

  Regulation 18 states how a scheme’s administration charges must be
calculated and set out in the implementation strategy.

  Regulation 19 stipulates what a scheme’s implementation strategy must
contain and how it must be prepared and made available to employers.

  Regulation 20 introduces Schedule 5, which sets out the procedure to be
followed when a triggering event has occurred and the scheme’s trustees are
pursuing continuity option 1, under which members’ accrued rights and benefits
are transferred out of the scheme and the scheme is wound up.

  Regulation 21 prescribes the deadline for a scheme’s trustees to notify the
Regulator when they believe that a triggering event has been resolved.

  Regulation 22 prescribes the deadline for a scheme’s trustees to submit
their first periodic report to the Regulator during a triggering event period,
and specifies the information which reports must contain in addition to that
required by the Act.

  Regulation 23 modifies various Articles of the Pensions (Northern Ireland)
Order 2005 on fraud compensation, as they apply to Master Trust schemes or
other schemes to which Part 1 of the Act applies. Consequential modifications
are also made to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Fraud Compensation Payments
and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005.

  Regulation 24 modifies section 95 of the Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland)
Act 1993 (trustees’ duties) as it applies to a Master Trust scheme in respect
of which the Regulator has made a pause order under section 31 of the Act.
Consequential modifications are also made to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Transfer Values) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996.

  Regulation 25 sets out the types of costs that must not be included in the
administration charges that apply in relation to the members of a Master
Trust.

  Regulation 26 provides that the authorisation and regulatory regime in Part
1 of the Act does not apply to hybrid schemes whose membership is limited to
members or former members of a statutory pension scheme and which are closed
to new members.

  Regulation 27 provides that the regime in Part 1 of the Act does not apply
to schemes whose only member is employed by 2 or more employers; to small
self-administered schemes; or to schemes where the only money purchase
benefits provided are those attributable to additional voluntary contributions
made by non-money purchase members or to transfers from other schemes in
respect of those members.

  Regulation 28 modifies Part 1 of the Act to disapply certain requirements
relating to scheme funders in respect of existing hybrid schemes which have
more than one scheme funder, each of which is a participating employer.

  Regulation 29 provides that 2 or more pension schemes under common control
are treated as a single Master Trust scheme for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Act if they are money purchase or hybrid schemes, each of which is used by one
employer or multiple connected employers, or if they comprise a Master Trust
scheme and its associated decumulation-only scheme.

  Regulation 30 amends the Companies Act 2006 to exclude scheme funders of
Master Trust schemes from the less stringent regime available to small and
medium-sized companies, and certain subsidiaries, under that Act.

  Regulation 31 amends the Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit)
(Application of Companies Act 2006) Regulations 2008 to exclude scheme funders
which are limited liability partnerships from the less stringent regime
available to small and medium-sized LLPs, and certain subsidiaries, under
those Regulations.

  Regulation 32 amends the Overseas Companies Regulations 2009 to exclude
scheme funders of Master Trust schemes which are registered outside the UK
from the less stringent accounting requirements which would otherwise apply to
such overseas companies.

  Regulation 33 revokes the Master Trusts Regulations.

  An assessment of the impact of this legislation is included in the
Regulatory Impact Assessment which accompanied the Act, a copy of which has
been laid in the Business Office and the Library of the Northern Ireland
Assembly. Copies of the Assessment are available from the Department for
Communities, Social Security Policy, Legislation and Decision Making Services,
Level 8, Causeway Exchange, 1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the
website:  https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information .

